ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u1	206. Oral inhalation Oral interpelations, just as Members of the Chamber of Deputies were submitted, were drawn in the following order, which you see on the board and which you got on your benches. The first is Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová, who is intersecting the Prime Minister. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u2	Good afternoon, Prime Minister, Mr Vice-President, honourable colleagues. Mr. Prime Minister, in recent weeks and months we have full media, and especially among people we are talking about the problem of migration and other international problems, and somehow one big problem has been covered, which solves dozens and maybe hundreds of people in our society, and this is the problem of singles and singles who are unable to obtain their right to judicially measured maintenance from their partner, who has been in debt to them for many months. As far as I know, we as a social democracy had this in the programme, and as far as I know, the government has the introduction of this legislative standard in the coalition treaty. So I would like to ask, at this point, whether there has already been an agreement on the adjustment of this issue, whether the coalition is dealing with this issue and how far the problem is. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u3	Thank you, ma'am. The words will be taken in response to this interview by Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u4	Thank you. Hello, honourable Members. The substantive intention of the Advanced Maintenance Act was processed on the basis of a concluded coalition contract. The coalition agreement declares support for parents with children in cases where the second parent does not pay properly established maintenance, in the form of a legal regulation dealing with backed-up maintenance, which will be provided under clear and state-defined conditions. I must say that we, as one of the coalition parties, social democracy, have put this proposal into a coalition agreement, and we have agreed that it will also be in the coalition agreement on the basis that, over the past years, we have repeatedly tried to enforce a law here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which would deal with backed-up maintenance, because I am aware of the fact that a group of singles or singles who take care of children, and the other parent does not fulfil his legal obligation - and now we can talk about the whole range of reasons that lead to it - is a case that, unfortunately, society almost does not pay attention to, although it is a very numerous situation. It's like weird in the shadows. While a number of topics, which may be more media-attractive, are also met in this Chamber of Deputies, the theme of the situation of single parents and single parents with children, where the other parent is simply not responsible for children, is a party to the mainstream public debate. Unfortunately, the situation in the coalition debate is not entirely simple, because at the moment when the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs prepared the substantive intention of the law, it turned out that coalition partners had a slightly different view of it, that is, within the coalition, the discussion was stopped. I might describe exactly what we're going to do at this point. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has prepared a substantive intention of the law. As is the case in other countries, social security measures have been prepared, that is to say, a benefit is proposed, in this case, a benefit which is expected to be recovered from the compulsory parent. The Ministry's proposal was processed in a working group where all the departments concerned were and there were also representatives of the professional and lay public. The bill's proposal for a substantive intention went through an external commentary procedure. As I said before, the preparation and discussion of the proposal was accompanied by different reactions in terms of finding an appropriate way to deal with the issue of parents with children, where the other parent does not properly pay the prescribed maintenance. Often a solution has been proposed which is not entirely related to the adjustment of the advanced maintenance and concerns rather the primary adjustment of the maintenance obligation and its enforcement under the law of civil material and procedural law, the regulation in the field of criminal law, or the application of these regulations by the competent institutions. However, in my opinion, this is not the way, because the efforts, say, to criminalise more intensively the non-payment of maintenance do not address the immediate social situation of families with children affected by this. We have repeatedly discussed this matter in the coalition. I have asked the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs as well as the Ministers of Finance, Justice and Home Affairs to send their competent representatives to a specially established working group. The nominations have already been sent there, the group's negotiations are being prepared and the aim should be to deal with the comments that appeared against the substantive intention of the law, so that it can subsequently be discussed with the government. I will certainly strive to ensure that this matter is settled as soon as possible at the level of the government coalition, so that a substantive intention can be discussed and a paragrafo version of the relevant bill can be prepared. I agree with what you said here. This is a serious social problem, and I would like our government to be able to come up with a very specific solution within its mandate to help single mothers or single parents in their difficult social situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask if the honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Yes. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u6	Thank you very much for your answer, Prime Minister. I'd like to, and now I'm talking to the whole coalition government so that this problem is as important to her as electronic sales records or gambling taxation, because I personally think that when people get to the bottom not by their own fault, but by the fact that the family has stopped working, it's exactly the moment when the state is supposed to work. And he's not gonna figure it out by starting a foundation and giving lonely mothers half a million a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u7	Thank you. The Prime Minister is not interested in an answer. Thank you, Mrs Bohdalová. It is now Mrs Nytrová's turn to have similar interpellation. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u8	Dear Prime Minister, fellow Members, I, too, consider the issue of backed-up maintenance to be very serious, and that is why I, too, had an interview on this issue, but since I think the Prime Minister has sufficiently answered what steps have been taken to date, I am withdrawing my intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u9	Thank you, Mrs Nytrová. We'll have more time for other colleagues and colleagues. We're good to go. Mr. Josef Zahradníček, who is intersecting the Prime Minister on the flag at Prague Castle, is now an interviewing Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, fellow Members, pleasant and good afternoon. It wasn't that long ago what happened and what wasn't supposed to happen. Almost all of our citizens have been condemned and offended by the group's actions. artists who have come for us in an incomprehensible way after scaffolding on the roof of Prague Castle, the seat of our kings and presidents, on the roof of a symbol to which every visitor of Prague looks with respect, love and humility, and I hope that every citizen of Prague too. I'm sure you know that the President's standard was taken off the flagpole and put up giant red shorts. What did this, I hope, small group called. artists, unparalleled. We are currently witnessing heads falling, quotes, those who should have been proud to be able to do what other members were quietly envied by them, i.e. to be part of the protection of the Prague Castle, the headquarters of our presidents. I'm very sorry, but I haven't read anywhere, or maybe I've been looking in the wrong places for your opinion on this regrettable event. That is why I am asking you, Prime Minister, also through the mouth of many citizens of the Czech Republic about your opinion, or where you can find your official position on this event. I also ask you whether there would be such a benevolence of all responsible even if, instead of what the group has put there, it was their help to castle over Prague Castle, and thus over the whole Czech Republic for example. flag so-called The Islamic State or the flag of someone or something. I thank the Members for their attention and your response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u11	I thank Mr Zahradníček. The Prime Minister will answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u12	Thank you. Dear Member, honourable Member, I have responded to this matter. I think everyone who saw it must have thought about whether the security service failed, if the castle guard failed to guard the premises of the Prague Castle. I think that this is particularly urgent in a situation where we have been discussing for a long time, even the risk of increasing the possibility of security incidents in Europe, and this, of course, was a security incident to a large extent, so I understand the reaction of the Office of the President of the Republic, its critical response to both the security service and the castle guard. As far as the matter is concerned, I must say that the police have taken immediate action and are investigating the matter, and it is undoubtedly up to the authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic to inform the public at the appropriate time of the outcome of the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u13	I thank the Prime Minister and ask my colleague Zahradníček if he has an additional question. That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u14	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister, for a very short answer, but I still believe that the matter will be properly examined and that the group will be punished so that something similar cannot be repeated on other buildings or on other buildings in the Czech Republic, where it flies for example. flag of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u15	Thank you. I'm asking if the Prime Minister wants to add - he doesn't want to complete his answer. We will therefore continue by intersecting Mr Jiří Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u16	Dear Prime Minister, the Czech Republic's policy towards refugees coming or going through our territory is clearly based on behavior towards refugees in a way that will be as humiliating as possible for them and will lead to the country spreading its impression of foreigners from other countries or faith fundamentally hostile to them. The extreme aspect of this behavior is the handling of refugees in facilities for securing foreigners, which, as I have been able to personally convince myself, quite obviously fills the characters that are inconsistent, e.g. the Convention of the Council of Europe to Prevent Torture and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatment or Punishment of 1987, respectively. specifically, the 2004 CPT Standards, which also concerns the elementary requirements of the type of access to legal aid or information, not to mention the environment that is worse in a number of elements than the environment in prison, which specifically concerns interned children, where the Czech Republic clearly violates Article 3 of the said Convention and where concern about the conditions of children, namely the Bělá-Jezová facility, has already expressed earlier, under conditions that were less dramatic both spatially and capacityly, the United Nations Child Rights Committee in June 2011. I understand that the ruthless treatment of refugees is in line with the majority position of a little specifically informed Czech public and, after all, most political representation. However, these attitudes could fulfil the application of our relatively strict asylum legislation without the need to build the reputation of a country that places every legal obstacle to obtaining refugee status and combine them with practices that develop a negative image of the Czech Republic so that the country's image with strict and enforced laws is far outgrown. These procedures in the Ministry of the Interior are, however, a reality and de facto government policy, although not adopted at a formal level, already because it contradicts the Czech Republic's human rights obligations. I would therefore like to raise the question of how you perceive -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u17	Mr. Ambassador, you won't have to complete the question until later because your two minutes have passed. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in no way does the Czech Republic put obstacles to asylum seekers. When you look at the number of asylum applications submitted in the Czech Republic in recent years, compared to countries such as Poland, Slovakia or Hungary, we are among the countries where relatively large applications for asylum are made. The asylum applications are also not fully linked to the current migration flows heading for the European Union. Applications for asylum, when I look at the structure as they have been submitted in the Czech Republic, and so far the largest group of asylum seekers is made up of the citizens of Ukraine; second, they are citizens of Syria; third, this year they are citizens of Cuba who have lodged asylum applications in the Czech Republic, and I am not aware that anyone would criticize the Czech Republic for putting obstacles to asylum seekers. In my opinion, the small number of asylum seekers from Syria in the Czech Republic is due to similar factors, such as the low number of such applications in other countries, which are on the transit axis of the migration stream, which is now heading to Europe through the Balkans. We're transit countries. We are a transit country that is at the edge of the main migration stream. Since the beginning of this year, I suspect the Ministry of the Interior has registered about 3,000 illegal crossings of our border, i.e. the various treatment arrangements strictly under the Asylum Act have affected about 3,000 people. Asylum seekers from Syria's parties are somewhere between 70 and 80 asylum applications, and I assume that given that they are refugees before the war, there will be no major problem for these people to be able to obtain asylum in the Czech Republic. I do not agree with the claim that the Czech Republic is putting some obstacles to asylum seekers here, and I think that we are following both EU standards and, above all, applicable laws in the Czech Republic. The problem is, of course, where people who commit law violations enter the Czech Republic, i.e. enter the Czech Republic without valid documents and either have already applied for asylum in another country, e.g. in Austria or Hungary, where they should be returned under the still valid Schengen rules, or do not provide any information and do not wish to open asylum proceedings here in the Czech Republic and seek to get into another country without registration. Here we must proceed, and now I say the government, because the government guarantees legality in the country towards citizens, the Ministry of the Interior must act in accordance with our laws. I just remind you that the House has been discussing the amendment of legislation for a number of months now, which regulates the issue of asylum in the Czech Republic and the conditions that are laid down. There are legal limits for the residence of refugees in detention facilities, there are legal grounds for the residence of refugees in detention facilities, and I have no indication that the Ministry of the Interior is acting against these grounds. [[14.50 hours]] The refugees are either released or returned to the countries to which they should be returned under Schengen rules at the moment when the legal grounds for termination of their stay are in the detention facility. Unfortunately, the practice of returning has been going through difficult trials in recent months, not always succeeding, but I can confirm that these rules still work between us and the Slovák, working between us and Austria. That means this is what's happening. Or, if there are serious reasons, of course, these refugees remain in a detention facility. Most of the serious reasons may be those relating to security aspects. You have also noticed statistics published by the Ministry of the Interior. In recent months, the number of refugees who are stationed in detention facilities has fallen, which confirms the fact that we are trying not to waste these people there at a time when, of course, there are no legal grounds for being held there. However, I think we have the right to submit them to our regime, which is defined by laws in the Czech Republic, to people who illegally cross borders. These laws are not contrary to the rules in force in the European Union. I also visited one of those detention facilities, and I did not see that the conditions there were undignified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u19	Prime Minister, I must take your word for it. Thank you. You can finish after the follow-up question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u20	Dear Prime Minister, I think you have factually incorrect information: small children with two diapers per day or less than 4% actually returned to Hungary in three months. But I was talking about another aspect of this and that is the negative impact on the image of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic, as a country generally hostile to foreigners, may mean a significant handicap in obtaining foreign workers at our universities or scientific workplaces, where an active sense of danger can be added to the difficulties of working for their families, often ethnically and religiously mixed. Trouble can easily arise in an attempt to diversify the composition of students of our universities about students from countries outside the European Union, to which reports about our country through negative reporting in international media can be received in very poor form. Closing the Czech Republic into itself, which is supported in this way, goes far beyond the issues of migration legislation or safety-legal standards and can mean damage that will initially be latent -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u21	Mr. Ambassador, the minute is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u22	- however - I will finish the sentence - if cultural or civilizational perception takes place internationally, it will be very difficult to combat its consequences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u23	I will be criticized by the other Members that you are wasting their time. So please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u24	Thank you, honourable Member, that was a very long sentence to complete. However, I would like to say that I did not talk about Hungary at all in terms of return. I spoke in terms of returning Slovakia and Austria because I have exactly information on what the statistics on returning to Hungary are. That's why I didn't introduce him as an example of functional relationships. Functional relations have been maintained with Slovakia in particular and with Austria. The number of migrants coming to us from Poland and being detained is minimal. So much for this matter. Otherwise, I think that no one can call the Czech Republic a country that is generally hostile to foreigners. Over 4 percent of foreigners live in our country, or more than 4 percent of our population are foreigners. Again, we have a much larger percentage of foreigners than Slovakia or some other countries in Central Europe. We have here - the largest of our national minorities, around 110,000 people, are Ukrajinec, then they are Rus, they are Vietnamec, of course I am not talking about Slovác, who are also mentioned in this statistics as an important national minority. But Ukrajinec, Rus, Vietnamec - major national minorities, more than 4 percent of the population are foreigners. And I do not think our country is known abroad as a state where there are conflicts between the majority population and these national minorities. I think that the vast majority of these people have had their good integration into our society, and I would very much like it to continue. Of course, this tension arises at the moment when people come to Europe in large numbers today, coming from areas that are very culturally and religiously different. They are very culturally and religiously different from the experiences we have so far with those foreigners who have come to us for example over the past 25 years, settled here and integrated. At the same time, in addition to this difference, we can see how often these people have failed to integrate in Western European countries. These are two factors that I think are worth discussing further.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u25	Prime Minister, I know the question was longer, but I also have to be fair for that time. Before the next interviewer I will state an apology from today's meeting: 14.30 to 19.30, Vice-President Jaroslava Jermanová. We continue to interpel Mr Petr Bendl, but I do not see him here, so his application is failing. And so we proceed to interpelling Mr... [[Named coming into the hall.]] No, he's here. He's already here, so you made it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u26	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, allow me to address you with an oral interview on refugee quotas. According to the existing analysis by the Ministry of the Interior, voting by qualified majority on this matter at the level of the Interior Ministers was contrary to European law. The Home Secretary here claimed that he had a clear analysis of the European Union's actions against the law. As a result, perhaps the Prime Minister of Slovakia also said that he would turn to the European Court in this regard. I want to know whether or not the Czech Republic will do so. If not, please answer why, if we have been damaged by rights and such analysis at the Ministry of the Interior exists, why you do not want to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u27	Thank you, even for keeping time, and the Prime Minister will answer Mr Bendl. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u28	Thank you. As I have been informed, honourable Members, by the Minister of the Interior, another meeting of the European Interior Ministers has been held today. The subject matter of the negotiations was not the introduction of permanent quotas within the framework of the European Union redistribution mechanism, and the debate that is being held in the European Union seems to be aimed at opening the debate on permanent quotas only when the experience of the extraordinary relocation mechanism that has been approved has been evaluated. I think two things need to be distinguished: an extraordinary mechanism that has already been discussed twice. In that first case, it was agreed that the States would not have compulsory contributions and were invited to volunteer for solidarity. And with the first mechanism, the Czech Republic has volunteered to take care of some 1,500 refugees in our territory. Then it was the second extraordinary redistribution mechanism. Once again, we have proposed that there should be no mandatory quotas, so that individual countries would have the opportunity to volunteer and freely comment on their contribution. In the latter case, this opinion was not adopted and there was a vote on the Council of Interior Ministers and the Czech Republic voted against, together with Slovakia, Hungary and Romania. From these four countries, only one country, Slovakia, announced that it would bring an action against this decision of the European Council. So far, no other country has approved such a procedure. What I think is important is that we are able to promote a rational, qualified approach to tackling the causes of the migration crisis in this European debate. We are also losing a huge amount of time here in the Czech Republic by debating quotas, but unfortunately this has also happened in recent months at European level, instead of addressing the causes, not the consequences of the huge migration current that is here. [[15.00 hours]] The Czech Republic will proceed in the coming months to maintain the greatest bargaining potential for either creating a blocking minority against the introduction of permanent quotas, or convincing our partners in the European Union that this is not the right way, so that such a proposal at the meeting of the Interior Ministers is not made at all. This discussion won't be easy. We believe that there are factual reasons why quotas should not be introduced, especially because countries which are transit countries of migration, or are not even transit countries of migration, do not have the status of target countries to which refugees want to enter. The target country today is Germany and some other richer countries of the European Union, and we do not know what mechanism the European Commission would like to choose to force these people into countries they do not want to go to. Of course, the whole debate also concerns the economic component of the current migration wave, because part of these people are not fleeing the war, but they are using the big migration wave to make it easier to migrate within their economic reasons. And there are no quotas that make any sense if these people were part of the asylum procedure, there is no sense in any relocation. So the progress of our government will be that we act now. We do not want to use the threat of action as a bargaining argument, as Slovakia has done. And let me make one more point. In the event that Slovakia succeeds in the action, the consequences concern all Member States of the European Union regardless of whether one State has brought the action or whether several States have brought the action. The results and consequences would concern all Member States. There's no way to assume that by one state filing a lawsuit, it's gonna make an exception for itself. The matter will be assessed and the consequences of the evaluation will be reflected equally for all Member States, whether they have brought an action or not. So we are not one of those countries that would choose to go this way. This will be more intensively discussed with our partners within the European Union and we will try to convince them that the solutions are not quotas, that the solution is a common surveillance of Schengen borders. And even here, we want to take a concrete step. The Czech Republic will participate very intensively in helping Hungary to protect the Schengen Hungarian border externally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm asking if there's an interest in an additional question. Yes, it is. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u30	Prime Minister, are you the Prime Minister of Slovakia or the Czech Republic? Whose Prime Minister are you, then? You are hiding behind court proceedings or the decision of the Prime Minister of another country when you have proven information that the Minister of the Interior has said that the Czech Republic has been overvoted, but completely contrary to European law. You are not acting as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, but acting as Deputy Prime Minister of Slovakia. I would expect you to defend the interests of the Czech Republic, and it is obvious that you do not want to do this for some reason completely incomprehensible for me. You don't want to, even though you know that the Czech Republic has been damaged, and you are her prime minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u31	Thank you. The Prime Minister is about to answer the question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u32	Thank you. On the contrary, I reject what Mr Bendl of the ODS is proposing here in order to follow Slovakia's policy blindly. We have our own foreign policy. We do not have Slovakia's policy. And Slovakia decides on its own discretion and also the Czech Government decides on its own discretion in the best interests of the Czech Republic. Our aim is not to get the Czech Republic into isolation within the European Union, but rather to ensure that we are able to enforce our arguments. What would be the point of acting in a way that will prevent us from communicating with other Member States simply because the arguments of the Czech Republic will no longer be heard and taken seriously? Our government was among the only four governments throughout the European Union who voted against the mandatory redistribution mechanism. We were among the four governments who voted against this, and we were part of a minority. This means that the majority decided that a one-time relocation mechanism would be implemented. It was not damaged by the Czech Republic, but it was not promoted by the Czech Republic and the Czech Government, which was promoted by this Chamber of Deputies, after all, because we did not act there on our own, but we also had support in the resolution of the House of Deputies. What is key, however, is not 1,500 or 3,000 people who will eventually be proposed to enter the Czech Republic to undergo asylum procedures under a one-off relocation. What is crucial is the permanent redistribution mechanism, which will now be debated in the European Union and which should not be approved. We have to put all our strength on that. A one-time mechanism is something that wears off. A permanent redistribution mechanism would remain here for years and would be outside the jurisdiction of the Czech government. [[Time limit alert.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u33	Thank you. We will continue to interpel Mr René Číp on the theft of the presidential standard. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I'm interrogating you on the theft of the President of the Republic's standard by an unknown perpetrator, virtually. A certain group who thinks of itself as a wannabe artist. According to me, this is clearly a criminal offence, because the damage was caused above CZK 5 000. I do not want to speculate here about any further hypothetical damage caused by this act, since this act has undoubtedly damaged the good name of both the President and the Czech Republic and the authorities to ensure the security of the Prague Castle. I ask you to know whether such measures have been taken so that such a thing will not happen again in the future at Castle or in other buildings associated with representative state functions such as the seat of government, ministry, Chamber of Deputies or Senate, etc. It must also be taken into account that next time it might not be just a national symbol theft, but someone could use the failure of security forces to do something else, even worse. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u35	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, let me welcome to the gallery the working delegation of the Czech-Indian Chamber of Commerce, namely Mrs Iva Li. Nice to meet you. [[MEPs rise and applaud the delegation's health.]] Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u36	Thank you. Madam Members, I believe that politicians, even when they speak in Parliament, are not here to determine who committed the crime and who did not commit the crime. So I'm sorry, but I'm not really going to comment on what happened at the Prague Castle, and I'm not going to try to qualify from the point of view of criminal law. That's what the police are here for. That's what the D.A.'s here for. They must assess whether or not a criminal offence has been committed and whether or not criminal proceedings will be initiated in this case. As you know, the Police of the Czech Republic have informed us that they are dealing with this matter. This means the police are acting, acting and acting on its bodies to provide sufficient information to the public, because I, as Prime Minister, am not informed of the course of individual criminal proceedings conducted in the Czech Republic. So the police have to do this qualification, they have to make the D.A.'s case about whether it's a criminal offence or a misdemeanor. In the event of a criminal trial here, guilt or innocence must ultimately be decided by an independent court. I've already talked here today about the reaction from the Office of the President of the Republic. I think the response was essentially adequate given that it was indeed an act that disrupted the security measures at Prague Castle. I think that each of us could have wondered how the security of the President of the Czech Republic was ensured when such an action as we saw with the flag of the President of the Republic could be carried out. I think that this step can be interpreted in different ways. In my opinion, it can be interpreted as a harsh recession. I think this is a topic for discussion where freedom of speech ends and where something happens that harms the symbolism of the state with which most citizens of the Czech Republic identify themselves. I believe that when we look at this act, it is indeed a harsh recession, which is probably at the edge of what is normally imaginable in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. My colleague Číp is reporting an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u38	In essence, my question was not directed at any legal qualification or whether it was a criminal offence or an offence, we will really leave it to the law enforcement authorities. My question was clearly directed at whether and what measures were taken to avoid such acts. And that's on government and other official buildings, so as not to disrespect these state symbols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u39	Thank you. The Prime Minister is about to answer an additional question. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u40	Thank you. I think that the Office of the Government also encounters similar attempts from time to time to demonstrate a political position, for example, by trying to climb the roof of the Office of the Government or by trying to develop various banners etc. I think we are a country that takes great care of freedom of speech and freedom of expression. And I would not want excessive security measures to lead to the fact that this freedom of speech and speech cannot be implemented in a standard way in the Czech Republic. I think that the security service, the castle guard, as well as the fact that there had to be personnel exchanges, will pay much more attention to the security of the Prague Castle complex, and I assume that where the protection service works within the state administration, they follow the development, monitor what happened, and take appropriate - and stress adequate - measures. I don't think the reaction should be overreacting again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u41	I thank the Prime Minister and we will continue to interpel Mr Martin Lank on the protection of the Czech national borders. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u42	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Prime Minister, I would like to interpel you on the protection of the Czech national borders. We probably agree that the immigration crisis will not just end. I certainly do not believe the European Union will be able to secure Schengen's external borders against illegal immigration. In such a case, however, protection measures must be taken by the Czech Republic itself. Especially when the surrounding states are already doing it. I welcome the fact that the army is preparing to strengthen police officers to protect the state border. 14 days ago, however, we held a seminar in the House to protect national borders with the participation of all relevant ministries. There was an important conclusion. The army is unable to defend and protect borders in the long term. It can be deployed on the border for a maximum of six months. Then it would threaten her ability to meet NATO's obligations or training. It would endanger her ability to help, for example, in the flood. Moreover, the military is simply not primarily here to protect the border. It has other tasks, and border control must therefore be dealt with differently. Therefore, if there is a high real risk that the immigration crisis will continue, we will need long-term measures to protect them permanently. And we should be getting ready for that right now. For example, we propose that the border police of the Czech Republic be reestablished with a strength of approximately 3000 members and that technical border control be supplemented by, for example, drones and electronic technologies for monitoring the movement of persons. Now to my question. What systemic measures will the government take for long-term protection of national borders? These, in our opinion, are necessary, unless you have some exclusive information, Prime Minister, that there will be no immigration crisis next year. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u43	I thank the Member and the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka will answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, above all, there is a need to distinguish between measures at the external Schengen borders and at the borders between the various Member States which are part of the Schengen area. I clearly consider the existence of Schengen to be a great advantage especially for countries like the Czech Republic. We are a state that is in Central Europe, neighbouring a number of other countries in the Schengen area. The fact that we have free movement is an advantage not only for citizens, but, of course, it is also a great advantage for entrepreneurs. Our export-oriented country, that is, we need to export the goods and services we produce in our country, so it needs the ability to quickly, cheaply cross the borders between the countries to which we export the goods. Any deterioration in the situation within Schengen, any building of barriers, controls, inspections within the Schengen area is something that will damage both our citizens and damage our entrepreneurs and employment in the Czech Republic in the long term. So Schengen is an advantage for us and will be an interest of the Czech Republic and it is clearly the priority of the Czech Government to keep Schengen space fully accessible to citizens of the European Union who have the right to move around the Schengen area. So to keep Schengen, not to wire the internal borders of Schengen, not to rebuild border controls that would hinder life within the Schengen area. The second is the external border of the Schengen area. On the contrary, that's where the situation must change. Protection of the external Schengen border is not sufficiently ensured in a number of countries. This is one of the reasons why the migration current caused such chaos in the European Union last year. I definitely agree that the migration crisis will not end this year. We can certainly meet and meet in 2016 and we must do everything in Europe together to make the migration current weaker next year. We have a few months to expect that the pressure on migration will decrease during the winter, and we need to prepare measures for next year so that the migration flow is weaker. Among other things, this includes strengthening the external border of Schengen. And I am so glad that the European Union has launched the second phase of the maritime operation between Italy and Libya, which is already directly aimed at interfering with human smugglers' ships. That's a step in the right direction. I also think that it is a positive step in terms of protecting the external border of Schengen, and that we agree with Hungary that the Czech Republic will help to safeguard the external border of Schengen in Hungary. As far as the situation is concerned with us, in the Czech Republic, we have strengthened the protection of our border during the migration crisis. We have strengthened it primarily through sources of the Foreign Police and, of course, through sources of other members of the Police of the Czech Republic. It turns out that for such measures in the coming years we will need more members of the Foreign Police. And since the migration problem really is not solvable within a few months and is rather solvable within a few years, the government approved the concept of strengthening the number of members of the Police of the Czech Republic. Each year we will increase by several hundred members and there will be an increase in the number of members Foreign police in such a way that we are better prepared for the situation of migration management. Because, in turn, there is a difference between qualifications, readiness, knowledge of a member of the Foreign Police or a member of the police department, because there must be some special equipment, special training. For example, strengthening language skills, etc. So we need more foreign police officers, but, of course, if we implement emergency measures at our borders, and I say again, we will implement them if they are needed, we will not only implement them as a false political gesture, but we will implement them if there is an increase in migration flows across our borders, we are ready to strengthen security and, given that there are not enough police officers of the Czech Republic, we would have to limit the services of the police within the state too much and this could increase the risk of crime, so we want to strengthen border surveillance and the members of the Army of the Czech Republic. And I very much appreciate the exercise that has taken place, joint, police and military, because it has shown that we are able to very effectively and quickly strengthen border surveillance. But it's only a temporary measure. In the long run, we must concentrate on the external borders of Schengen, not on the closure within the Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u45	Thank you. My colleague, Lank, is applying for an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u46	At first moment I was startled by your speech that you do not intend to do anything to preserve the free movement of people on Schengen and business activities at all. Well, I'm glad it made me realize that at least something was going to happen. Anyway, what's happening right now, including this joint exercise that I'm happy for, is just the kind of response to the immigrants that are here. And the consequences are solved, not the causes. [[15.20 hours]] I completely understand that this situation must be addressed as a matter of priority outside the Schengen borders, at the external border. But I'm glad to hear that the plan is to recruit, increase the number of police officers, so I'm gonna ask you one more time, and really specifically: According to experts, there would be a real need to restore the border police, with the strength of at least 3,000 members. I want to ask if something similar is planned and if technical protection of the state border is considered using electronic devices and possibly drones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u47	Thank you, that was an additional question. The Prime Minister has the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u48	Thank you. I certainly do not rule out, honourable Member, that the Police of the Czech Republic will improve their equipment by various mobile control means, but we are certainly not going to be at the borders of the Czech Republic, we do not have any external border of Schengen, or we are not going to build any permanent technical measures at the borders of the Czech Republic. But we want to improve the readiness, numbers and equipment of the Foreign Police. I think what's happening right now is a clear incentive for us not to underestimate the role of the Foreign Police. We're not going to build some special border guard files. I emphasise once again that such measures make sense at the external border of Schengen. There we have already proposed as the Czech Republic, we supported the proposal to create something like a common European border guard service, and we are ready to send our experts to such a guard service or send our officers or soldiers there if necessary. So no special components, strengthening the Foreign Police, improving its equipment yes, permanent technical equipment not, but it is necessary to strengthen the protection of the external Schengen border. And as far as the cause of the migration crisis is concerned, what is needed as quickly as possible is to improve food aid to people in refugee camps, to provide better care, especially when we know that we are going to have another winter and that there are several million people in those refugee camps at the moment. There are 10.5 million people who have fled their home in the context of the war in Syria, of which about 6 million people are emigrated within Syria, 4 million Syřan are in refugee camps in Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon. So we have to take care of these people. And if the UN is running out of money for food aid, I am glad that the European Union has agreed to increase the funds significantly there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u49	I thank the Prime Minister and we will continue with another one, already the eighth interpellation of Mr Jiří Valenta in relation to the Government's responsibility to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, are you really okay with the miserable degree of not participating in your government's ministers not only in the parliamentary intercessions? It has fallen several times here in the House, but it has not really given me the opportunity not to ask you directly as the head of the executive and to ask for your direct answer to the public. I understand that ministers may have serious reasons not to participate in isolated cases, but for example. Their lack of mass today is no longer common sense and rather accurately illustrates the approach of the coalition government to the legislature. I believe that, in a sense, the House's activity paralyzes and undermines the principles of the Constitution on which our state system is built with a precisely balanced division of power. The fact that Minister Jurečka sat there at the beginning of the hearing of rejected written interventions was a sad illustration of the introduction of today's meeting day. The ministers were subsequently absent from other points of the House's negotiations, which they were supposed to guarantee, and the meeting had to be interrupted. How tragic, but also reprehensible. I'd rather not talk about oral patronage. We are often ready to interpel, as we often need an immediate ministerial response to our work. The House apparatus also works, but everything goes to waste. The period of activity of the House, commonly wasted by the absence of ministers, is based on a taxpayer of approximately CZK 560 thousand. But when Members' questions and even their own negotiating points are no longer relevant, isn't the economic aspect at least important? At other times, we are often forced to save senselessly on citizens, which Minister Babiš could talk about, but he is not here, and he should also be here. Prime Minister, please try to do something about this unflattering state of work of your government's ministers, whether we do not have to deal with their respect for the House, in addition to citizens, constitutional order or economics. But it is also a simple decency for colleagues who really want to do something for people not declarably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u51	The Prime Minister is about to respond to the interpellation. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u52	Dear Member, I am trying not to be absent from the interventions, but I cannot replace by my presence the potential failure of other members of the government to intervene on ministers. However, I am certainly prepared for the next government meeting on Monday to open the subject. So I'm going to talk to my colleagues, and I'm going to ask them to pay a lot more attention to the ministers. I was also in the position of an opposition Member in this House, and it bothered me that when I wanted to interpel the minister and I was drawn, that is, I was lucky enough to be in some order, the minister wasn't here after all. So I'm sure I'm ready to talk to the ministers about it and ask them to be here more often at the Chamber of Deputies meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u53	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr Valenta, who is applying for an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u54	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Your answer is sufficient for the time being, and I will therefore be happy if it comes to the benefit of not only the House, but also the citizens of the Czech Republic, who really need some information through their Members, especially the immediate response of the competent ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u55	I thank my colleague Valent, the Prime Minister will not speak further. Let's move on to interpelation number one. 9 and this is Mrs Strnadlová's interpelation on her way to the United States. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u56	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Prime Minister, you have visited the United States of America for the second time in the past month. Given that the news is always rather small in the media, I would like to ask you if you could inform us about the results of your trip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u57	Thank you for the very effectively presented interpelation. The Prime Minister will certainly like to use his time to inform the outcome of the trip. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have visited the United States for the second time within a year and a half when I serve as Prime Minister. It was not a bilateral visit, but I attended two summits organised by the President of the United States in cooperation with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, actually against the background of the United Nations General Assembly. First of all, I would like to point out that probably also as a result of the UN celebrating 70 years since it was established this year, so the representation of Heads of State at the level of prime ministers or presidents at the UN General Assembly and the accompanying events that accompanied him, such as those two summits which I personally attended, was indeed very important and truly representative. It pleased me because I think it shows that it is growing, but the prestige of the United Nations is growing a little bit, and if it also grows, it is good news for stability in the world. I firmly believe that strong representation will also be at other UN General Assembly, and we are ready as the government of the Czech Republic to prepare our participation and to pay more attention to our representation in the coming months so that we can use the UN General Assembly diplomatically to the maximum in favour of the Czech Republic. The first summit I attended was a summit dealing with the fight against ISIL, against the Islamic State. The Czech Republic is part of a coalition of states that have joined together to fight the Islamic State. There's over 60 of these countries. At that summit, three other countries were adopted, which extended this coalition, but above all the summit was an opportunity to hear views not only of the United States and other countries, but, above all, of the Arab world, of North Africa, of those countries where the Islamic State is active, where they have experience in combating terrorism, which, after all, are countries, very often also the source of the current migration wave. I consider this meeting to be very useful, because there has also been some coordination of the states that are part of this coalition. [[15.30 hours]] I had the opportunity to discuss the Czech Republic's contribution with the Vice President of the United States, Mr Biden. I must say that the United States appreciated the fact that the Czech Republic is supplying ammunition to Iraq, namely the Kurdish fighters and the Iraqi government army. Our contribution is certainly not negligible. We have already delivered one shipment of ammunition last year, another shipment is ready for transport this year, and at this time the Ministry of Defence is considering the possibility that we would probably deliver our machine guns to the fighters against the Islamic State in Iraq, i.e. it would be, say, the third form of aid that we would provide in a short time. The Iraqi party - I also had the opportunity to speak to the Iraqi Prime Minister - appreciated the fact that the Czech Republic is selling L-159 aircraft to Iraq, that we are involved in training Iraqi personnel. Iraq is interested in participating in the training of their police officers, so this component of our aid is perceived positively. And after all, there's a third form of help. The Czech Republic has been more intensively involved in the protection of the airspace of NATO countries that do not have their own supersonic air force, and we are replacing in the protection of the airspace of a country that is directly involved in air raids against the Islamic State in the Middle East. So now we have been extremely involved in air patrolling over Iceland and have made it possible for this capacity to be used precisely in the fight against the Islamic State's fighters. The second meeting was also very important. It concerned the participation of the Czech Republic in UN missions. I am glad that I was able to inform that the Czech Republic, after being very passive in this matter in recent years, is ready to return to the UN missions. Specifically, we want to send our troops to the UN mission in Mali and there we work very closely with the Dutch army, i.e. We'll be part of the unit, along with the Dutch soldiers. And I firmly believe that returning to the UN missions will also be a positive report on the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u59	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm asking if there's an interest in an additional question. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u60	That won't even be an additional question. I am only grateful and very glad to hear that the UN is involved in the fight against the Islamic State, because it is never so clear in the media. And if we don't actually do that, there might be a danger that the UN's 71th birthday might not even live to see it. So all we can do is keep our fingers crossed. Thank you. I don't need an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u61	Thank you, Mrs Strnadlová. The Prime Minister will therefore not complement his response. Let us move on to the 10th interpellation, this is the interpellation of Mr Radim Fiala on the referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u62	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, fellow Members, the surrender of your government in Brussels was just as shameful as predictable. The fact that the dictation of Brussels to our Republic exceeded all bounds was clear a long time ago. Therefore, since its inception, the SPD has repeatedly asked your government and the Chamber of Deputies to issue a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. Citizens of this country should have the right to decide on our future, whether we become a multicultural province of Brussels, or whether we retain our own identity, whether we want to protect our statehood and freedom from Brussels about us without us and the invasion of illegal immigrants. Since your government and your Members opposed the freedom of choice of Czech citizens, and because you repeatedly voted against this referendum, the SPD launched a petition for a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union a few days ago. Many tens of thousands of citizens have already signed this petition. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask you here to respond to her wording. I quote: The approval of mandatory quotas for the redistribution of immigrants by the European Union constitutes a fundamental violation of the sovereignty and independence of the Czech Republic. This is an act comparable to that of March 1939 or August 1968. This violence on the rights of our country will be followed by an attack on democratic rights and citizens' freedom. First of all, it will be to prevent a referendum as an expression of the will of the citizens. It is clear today that the targeted destruction of the Czech state is taking place. The political movement of the SPD has advocated three times in the Parliament of the Czech Republic the adoption of the Constitutional Act on the referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u63	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to ask a question, and you can fill that in the next part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u64	Okay, thank you. I'll fill in the next part. I, because, as I said before, several tens of thousands of Czech citizens responded to the petition -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u65	My colleague, don't make me angry. [[With a smile.]] I have to lead you to the point. I'm sure the Prime Minister will answer, but I'll ask him to be patient before I read the apology received by the President of the House. Mr Vilímec apologizes; Mrs Lorencová, Mr Plíšek, Mr Vyzula and Mr Pražák apologizes. So many more excuses from this afternoon's meeting. The Prime Minister may now answer the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u66	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I do not think there is any destruction of the state. On the contrary, the state finally renews its functions after a year and a half. We are trying to improve the functioning of public services, so that people can rely on the police, so that there is a stable health system in place to improve social services. I mean, if you ask the citizens, they can hardly tell you that the state would fall apart in our country. Perhaps three or four years ago, when area cuts were made, which largely destructed the state's capabilities, so the state actually fell apart, eroded, in a number of positions he was unable to do what the citizens expected of him. The fact that we are also strengthening the military, security services or police in the context of increasing risks around Europe is a sign that the state is aware of its responsibilities, for example. for the citizens' security area. I do not think that we should harm our citizens by leaving the European Union. Membership in the European Union gives us great opportunities for economic and social stability. I do not know that, in addition to the United Kingdom, serious discussions have been held in a country of the European Union about her leaving the European Union. On the contrary, I know that there are a number of countries in our neighborhood, either east or southeast, that are seeking to become members of the European Union, thereby strengthening their stability and improving their prospects for prosperity. As I mentioned here in one of the interpelations, our country is a state and we were also in the first Republic between wars, a state that was very focused on trade, export of its goods and services. The fact that we are and have the opportunity to be part of the European market has greatly increased our companies' ability to produce and employ people. According to all available analyses, our becoming part of the European Union has increased the amount of investment that comes to the Czech Republic. I do not want to talk about such things that we already take for granted, such as the possibility of free movement throughout the Schengen area or the possibility of students from the Czech Republic studying abroad under reciprocal conditions etc. But I want to mention those key factors that are important for our people's lives and for the quality of our people's lives, and that, in my view, is the question of employment, economic growth, social standards. We have many of the things we have in the Czech Republic today because we can prosper, produce, trade freely throughout the European Union. So I think it is obvious - and if I have to respond to this initiative - that I clearly reject this initiative. [[15.40 hours]] It would be a path not to prosperity, but it would be a path to stagnation and decline. It would be a journey to the isolation of the Czech Republic. On the contrary, we need to be open to be a society capable of communicating, exchanging information and arguments, not closing ourselves in, not being isolated from the rest of the world. One final point. I think it is a bit paradoxical how some radical movements react to the current migration crisis. It is clear that the recipe to cope with the migration crisis is not to strengthen nationalism, it is not to close individual countries, and that everyone will take care of himself alone. It just doesn't lead to anything. Europe's care for itself didn't care about what was happening in Syria, so after four years, this method led to the current migration wave. Rather than locking ourselves in, isolation and the growth of nationalism, but more cooperation between European countries to solve the common problems that we have. I am convinced that migration is not just Germany's problem, it is not just the problem of the Czech Republic or Greece, it is a problem that the whole of Europe has, and all Europe must look for a common solution, so that it makes sense. We as the Czech Republic will not solve the migration crisis on our own, but we can participate in a joint European action, where our membership of the European Union once again makes sense. I am no longer talking about all other aspects relating to foreign policy, security, but I consider it important that we are members of the European Union. I think we belong in Europe. We shouldn't be dividing ourselves from it. We are a country in Central Europe, and our entire history confirms that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u67	Thank you. The additional question was raised by Mr Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u68	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your partial answer. I'd like to ask you for further answers. It is clear from the way the European Union's leaders, such as Mrs Merkelová, speak that the European Union supports this migration. She said today and yesterday that she was not going to deal with the migration wave in any other way than how the European Union is dealing with it. I do not know, therefore, and I would like to ask you what action you are calling on the European Union, because the European Union is just doing what it does to send refugees here and redistribute them, nothing else. That's all I think. In response to your statement that the states are trying to join the European Union, I have other information when Norway and Turkey have withdrawn their application to the EU, which means that they are not sure of the outcome and what the European Union is doing today, as I am. As far as free movement is concerned, that was only minimal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u69	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a follow-up question is over. Prime Minister, if he wants to answer. Yes. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u70	Thank you. I think it is clear what a joint European Union action is. Activities that we will be able to coordinate to improve the situation in the immediate vicinity of Europe so that people do not have to run away from here massively to Europe so that they can stay there, and these are joint actions in the field of foreign policy. This is a joint deal with Turkey, through which a large proportion of refugees go to Europe. These are joint initiatives leading to reconciliation in Syria. These are measures to help refugees in refugee camps improve their life situation. These are measures that will focus on getting on the feet of the economies of countries in North Africa. Just all of these measures that we can implement when we join forces, coordinate development aid, coordinate diplomacy, coordinate security activities, so all of this makes sense to do at a common European level and focus on North Africa, on Eastern Europe, focus on the Middle East, and stabilize the situation there. By this I mean the European Union's joint action and I mean it in terms of operations against human smugglers, I also mean it in terms of the common protection of the external Schengen border, but we have not yet got there as far as the common protection of the external Schengen border is concerned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u71	Thank you, Prime Minister. We are continuing to interpel Mr Adolf Beznoska on the issue of restrictions on business. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, a quick question. In the House there is a Senate proposal for restrictions on opening hours in shops. This should cover some selected holidays and shops that have more than 200 square metres, and then some exceptions. The Coalition Council discussed this in January 2015 and decided to support this Senate proposal. On Monday this week, the Civic Democratic Party presented its Autumn Program Expansion, in which we also devoted our opening hours in shops, with the fact that only owners have the right to decide when it will be opened in their store. I am very pleased that social democracy is very closely monitoring the activities of the Civil Democratic Party and has responded to this response, which, of course, has shown that social democracy will promote the closing of shops on Sunday. My questions are simple. First of all, if this proposal is indeed a social democracy amendment, this extension will be made on Sunday, or if you have already discussed it in the coalition and prepare a government amendment in this spirit. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u73	Thank you, Mr Beznosk. The Prime Minister will answer your question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u74	Thank you. Dear Member, no. We don't set any closing hours on Sundays. I think it's a pretty simple and definite answer. Each European country has a different regime in this. There are countries where it is mostly closed on Sundays, this concerns Austria. There are countries that have other restrictions. There are a number of countries in Europe that actually have restrictions on the selling time of the holidays there. I personally support the proposal that lies here in the Chamber of Deputies, unfortunately, for a long time now, which has been tabled by the Senate. It's a proposal that deals with closing hours at public holidays. I think that regulation is appropriate both with regard to the life of employees working on the retail network and with regard to the culture and life of citizens of the Czech Republic. I think this regulation would rather bring us closer to civilized countries. I understand that there are differences of opinion in the Chamber of Deputies, but I will personally vote in favour of limiting the selling time on public holidays. I don't think anyone's suggesting restrictions on sales time on Sundays.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u75	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Beznoska, my colleague, is asking a supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u76	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your answer. Just reminding you that in your material ČSSD's commentary on the ODS campaign Expansion it is shown in parentheses and Sundays, meaning social democracy in its material writes that employees should be free on holidays for which you will vote and in parentheses on Sundays. I understand that this is just a message that has no merit and will not be realized in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u77	I'm asking if the Prime Minister will have an additional answer. It's not like that. We're getting to the 12th interpellation of Mrs. Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, Tuesday at the opening of the hearing I have expressed my concern to the Chamber of Deputies about the procedure chosen by Minister Chovanec on the matter of photomontage, which we have all seen in the media. Unfortunately, his statement, which was in the sense that the Minister himself tasked the secret services to deal with his affairs, made me feel that, on the one hand, he does not trust, like any other mortal, the Police of the Czech Republic, which is responsible for this and, on the other hand, that he has abused his authority. I want to ask you, as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, if you know that one of the ministers is directly addressing the intelligence services, or if the Government of the Czech Republic has discussed this matter. And the third question. If you yourself have been informed of this matter by the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Černochová. The Prime Minister is about to answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u80	Thank you. Madam, the tasks of the secret services are laid down by the Government in its resolutions, so that these are tasks relating to their focus, their action. I have no information that Minister chovanec is tasking the secret services in the matter you mention, so I cannot confirm that there is something going on here that you have called a violation of the law. I have information that Minister chovanec gave the initiative to the Police of the Czech Republic, i.e. I assume it was in the form of a relevant criminal report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u81	Thank you. Mrs Černochová's supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u82	Thank you, Prime Minister. In that case, the Minister of the Interior does not inform you of very important matters, because yesterday the Minister came to me on the bench, there were other colleagues who heard it, and before these and before me he said that he had contacted you in writing with your consent to the Security Information Service. So someone's lying to us, and I hope it's not the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, but only the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u83	The Prime Minister will answer the supplementary question. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u84	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, the fact that someone in writing turns to the security service or anyone else does not mean that he is tasking the security service or anyone else. I think there's a big difference. And if the Member has any information that Minister chovanec is tasked with the security service beyond the powers conferred by the relevant laws and regulations of the Government, he may give an incentive to the BIS supervisory authority or any other security service to deal with this matter. But if there is alleged evidence here that Minister Chovanec's statement that he has applied in writing to the service cannot be interpreted as a duty assignment. I would like us to be precise on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u85	Thank you, Prime Minister. We are going to be record-breaking at the Prime Minister's interception, and that is the thirteenth interpellation - Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u86	Thank you for the floor. I believe I didn't expect my turn. Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to further extensions and delays in the completion of the R7 Prague - Louny - Chomutov expressway. In the past days, we participated together in the construction of Nexen's production plant, a key investor for the Ústí Region, which suffers from significant unemployment. It was repeatedly promised by the government that the completion of the R7 expressway was a priority for the government. So I would like to ask you why there are further delays, why your promises are not transformed into reality and priority delivery of this key speedway R7 Prague - Louny - Chomutov.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u87	Thank you. The words will be taken by Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka to answer this matter. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u88	Thank you. Dear Member, first of all, I am glad that the Žatec industrial zone has been filled thanks to an investment which is a truly valuable investment for the Czech Republic. And it's not just about this investment, but it's also about other companies that are operating and manufacturing in the Žatec industrial zone today. I have also had the opportunity to visit some of the previous months and I know that the demand for the construction of the R7 expressway is indeed very strong. The investment of Nexen is important in that over 22 billion crowns will be invested within five years. More than a thousand jobs will be created and a very modern tyre production plant will actually be built. It's an interesting investment. There's gonna be a research center. It will be qualified work for our people, so it is certainly a good thing that this investment has been acquired despite the state of the current construction of this communication. We are also involved in the investment negotiations that we obtain in general, so the question of transport infrastructure is always mentioned, not part of the specific agreements that we conclude on investment incentives, but these are things that investors always ask us about as much as you do. If I may, here, on this R7 issue, the information I received from the Department of Transport. According to the Ministry of Transport, sections R7 in Slánsko should be built in 2020 and completed in 2022 and 2023. At the same time, some improvements are planned, such as the capacity of the Virgin Týnec bypass with implementation until 2017, the capacity of the Loun bypass with construction also until 2017. The capacity of the R7 section at Chlumčany is also expected, which should start in 2018. And the implementation of the three-mile section between Postoloprty and the intersection of Bitozeves should start next year. This is brief information on what the situation on R7 looks like. Of course, I could mention individual sections here as they are ready. I just want to say that, of course, the Ministry of Transport is monitoring this matter. It's one of the priorities of the government and the Ministry of Transport. And I would like to say, first of all, that our aim is to provide enough funding for the preparation of construction in individual sections so that the preparation does not go unnecessarily, and once we get to the stage where the building permits will be, so that we can start building in individual sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u89	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Kučera will ask an additional question. We have time for that, too. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u90	Thank you for your reply to the Prime Minister. I would like to divide this issue into two parts. I must say that the Ústecký Region, self-government in the Ústecký Region, individual municipalities really do their utmost to ensure that the completion of the express road in the Ústecký Region is carried out as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, the same priority for the completion of the R7 expressway does not lie with the Central Bohemia Region. I would really like to ask the Prime Minister here to focus particularly on this area. When the Prime Minister looks, it was also said in his reply, it is clear that there is a very different readiness in the territory of the Ústí Region and in the territory of the Central Bohemia Region, where the terms are actually in about ten to fifteen years. I would ask the Prime Minister to focus on the Central Bohemia Region and help complete the expressway especially on this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u91	I thank Mr Kučer. The Prime Minister is preparing for a follow-up answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u92	Thank you. I will certainly also request more detailed information on the preparation of individual sections throughout the R7 route on the basis of today's interpellation from the Ministry of Transport and from the Central Bohemia Region, and I will ask them for their comments and opinions on how cooperation between the government and these two regions could be improved with regard to the preparation of the R7. I will use this option to point out on this occasion that this is also an important priority in relation to the new investments that we are getting into the Žatec industrial zone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u93	I thank Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka for his additional reply. Since we don't have enough time to ask the last question, we are still record-makers in the government's interpellations, we have settled 13 of them, which is not customary in those 90 minutes, and we will be engaged in the interpelation of Czech government ministers after less than a minute. [[16.00 hours]] I'm going to ask Vice-President Gazdík to prepare himself so that we don't delay other colleagues asking questions. Minister Němeček as the first interpelled minister is ready, he is listening and his colleague Gazdík can. Please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor on the first interpellation of Members to members of the Government of the Czech Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u94	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear Minister of Health, I have also heard rumors about the amendment to Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on Health Education. From my point of view, in this case, it is an ill-advised reduction in the number of so-called. basic medical disciplines. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister: Why is there a system that is different from most European countries and, on the one hand, neglects as basic certain specialization fields, which are standard core fields within the EU, and at the same time states as basic ones which are not thus enshrined in most European countries or the EU? That's the first question. The second is why the text of the law does not correspond to the original intention to shorten education. If the current core field is defined by the implementing regulation as a superstructure, instead of a possible reduction in education from five to four years, education from six to seven years will be extended. Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u95	I thank the Vice-President of the House for the questions asked, even in the limit time. The Minister has the right to an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for opening this issue, and because the time when the law which brings order into the system of further education is slowly but certainly approaching the Chamber of Deputies, I assume that, let us say, these initiatives will increase, because at the moment we decided, not that we want to distinguish the system from what is in Europe - unfortunately, the system as it has been in the meantime, in the meantime for many, many years, delightful, so we have become European unique, when we have practically the highest number of medical disciplines in Europe, and when I try to simplify it so that even non-medical and non-medical people can imagine what I am talking about, we have come to a situation where we have almost thumb specialists on our right foot, who can no longer heal the thumb on our left leg. And here it has to be fair to say that it wasn't just a mistake of the former Garniths of the Ministry of Health, which were somehow subject to relatively effective pressure from professional societies, prominent masters of professors and professors, who had the idea that their field had to be the basic field, who thought that even if they were working in it, if I overreacted, four doctors in the Republic, it had to be a basic field, and in the end it led to the fact that experts who have such a narrow specialization, so when something happened and they might want to change their specialization, it was a big problem. Another problem is, of course, education within this field, because the workplaces that are able to erudite them are not much, and that is why we decided to do so so. to cut and try to zoom in on what is in most European countries, however, it must be said that each country has a little different, and we wanted to return it a little bit to the system that we had here and which, in my opinion, was almost optimal, to the system of first and second certification. And we've come to the fact that we're returning the basics to roughly the level where there were fields, from which it was tested as the first test. Of course, it wasn't possible, because medicine had progressed in the meantime, and we are aware that this is, of course, a resistance, because those prominent masters of professors and professors who have fixed their profession, who have forced all doctors from all over the Republic to practice only one workplace, if possible hundreds of miles from their residence, so of course they will be okay with it and they will enjoy the natural respect that the medical profession has, they will address individual Members, senators, to do something about it and not let it happen. So I want to say for myself that we will definitely lead both in the health committee and on the grounds of this honourable House certainly quite a long discussion on this, we are ready to listen to arguments that have some basis and some ratio, on the other hand, but if we want to simplify the system, if we want to make it more friendly for doctors in education, then we simply need to make changes and there will always be someone who will be dissatisfied with it. We're aware of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u97	I thank the Minister of Health. My colleague Gazdík is reporting with an additional question. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u98	Thank you, Minister, for a very clear and almost complete answer. I will take advantage of one more question that is bothering me, and this is a lack of especially circuit and dental practitioners in the Czech Republic, and as I have seen the analysis, over the next five to ten years it will get into very sad numbers and big problems. I'm asking if this is part of the bill's amendment, if that's what it's supposed to be about, how to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u99	Thank you. The Minister will be happy to answer the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u100	I want to thank you. I have to say, thank you very much and that I love to go to interpelations, because here I get questions from the topics that we are dealing with and which I consider important. I will begin gradually with the two issues which the Member has opened. We do not feel that the number of doctors who receive a certificate from practical medicine is inadequate in itself, according to dates and numbers. We think that the number is fine, but the problem is that many of them want to stay as much as possible in the largest cities, they want to stay in Prague, Brno, event. in other cities, and we note the real problem that it is not quite easy to get them into more remote regions, border regions, where, on the contrary, we think that the importance of a practical doctor is very important. Of course, our options are a little limited. Away are the times of the locations and we certainly do not want to go back to that and we have to motivate them positively in some way. That is why this year we agreed with the VZP that we will try to support the functioning of the ambulances of practitioners in these regions. In addition to the fact that it operates within the contractual policy VZP term so called. small practice, which is where there are fewer insured people who would not support the doctor, and they are paid better in the long term so-called unit price terms, so we agreed that even if there are enough residents there, and yet it will not be attractive for the doctor, so if twice the so-called. a tender for the practice and it will not be successful, so the VZP will increase this doctor's remuneration by 30% even more than what it is now. We're not saying it's gonna be enough... [[Time's up.]] Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u101	Mr. Secretary, I have to interrupt you. There's nothing I can do. You only have to tell Vice-President Gazdík individually. Another question is Mr. Jan Zahradník to the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u102	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the matter of the protection of groundwater. The last time I turned to Minister Brabec on this subject, it concerned the deficit between groundwater and surface water and the proportion between fees. I would like to address you with questions regarding the fact that the organic matter content of soil directly relates to the soil's ability to take collision water, on the basis of data from the Research Institute of Melioration and Soil Protection, which is proven to be due to the poor management of organic matter. At the same time, it is also known that farmers do not like it very much, it is administratively complicated for them, they receive and process municipal compost into the soil. Meanwhile, the Ministry of the Environment constantly supports the construction of other composting plants and often there is no sale on the products produced in them. I have two questions, Minister: Will the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment address the problem of increasing organic matter deficits in arable land? And secondly, how will the Department of Agriculture try to motivate farmers to farm in the fields so that the water stays in the fields and doesn't drain into the receptionists and also make use of drainage waters?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u103	I thank Mr Zahradník and ask the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka for his reply. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u104	Good afternoon, thank you, Mr President, dear Members of Parliament. Mr. Ambassador, I will try to answer this within a short period of time, because this is a subject that we could discuss here all afternoon. On that first question, whether we are going to solve the problem of the organic matter deficit - that is, of course, the question that we are dealing with, which we are already trying to solve in real time. We have taken many steps in setting up the common agricultural policy, where we have increased demands on, say, the minimum load of livestock units on permanent grasslands in the Czech Republic, in order to support animal production, that is to say, the return of organic matter to the soil back. Furthermore, we are trying to motivate farmers to grow intermediate crops. This year, according to the first comparison, we have a year-on-year increase of 30 thousand. hectares of intermediate crops. We'll have the exact numbers at the end of the year, but it's obvious that the positive trend is somehow being set up here. I must say that we are also trying to support crops that are improving, such as alfalfa protein crops, clover, through the so-called protein payment, which, in turn, is linked to the minimum load on the livestock unit. These are all the aids newly created in 2015 and are set for approximately the next five years. I must say that the second question of how to motivate farmers to look more at this issue and to try harder to manage the principles of good agricultural practice and to keep water in the countryside and, above all, increase the retention potential of the land, so we are now trying to prepare an amendment to the Government's regulation on the common agricultural policy. In turn, we want to increase the demands on farmers and their way of growing, whether it be crop rotation, the size of the soil blocks, for example, an evaluation of the length of the soil block after the slope, so that we make some interruption with another crop, so that we do not encourage erosion. Then, of course, next year, in the context of the challenges, we are planning to allow farmers to also support the purchase of mechanization, which will support the increase in soil retention capacity. We are primarily concerned with instruments such as deep hips, deep undermining, because a lot of farmers do minimize, but they don't make it whole, they only do the part that is simple, economically acceptable to them, but here this doesn't solve, say, the final finals, how to do it right. We are also trying to motivate farmers to farm in accordance with nature, which means the question of water retention in the countryside as regards small water reservoirs, ponds. We are opening a new grant title for next year, which will be supported by farmers and municipalities, or of course private persons, to build new ponds. We're not limiting the size of the pond. Of course, support for debauchery and these matters will be set up there. And for river basin undertakings, we will have a grant title for infrastructure renewal just after the agricultural water management, with regard to drainage and central drainage systems, which are in pretty bad shape, because now the river basin undertakings have nothing to finance from it. After the agricultural water management was abolished, the half-billion crowns that were there for this maintenance did not go beyond the river basin businesses. That, too, is another thing we're trying to set up systemically for next year to succeed. I must say that the topic that you raised, and that is also the topic of composting and the supply of organic matter to the soil through compost, is a topic that is not completely systemically solved, because although the Ministry of Environment motivates municipalities and other business entities to process compost, there is no transfer of the endgame to possibly buy compost for farmers or apply it to the field at some cost. That's something we're gonna have to work out between ourselves. It is mainly a problem for municipalities that do not have compost plants. The farmer who has a composting plant will do it within his calculations, but for the municipalities it is a really big problem, what to do with the compost, when they already collect biodegradable municipal waste, but how to apply it economically, it really is a problem that is not solved completely well today. I'll give you that. I have tried to make a list of some of the measures we are implementing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u105	Thank you, Minister. Mr zahradník has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u106	Karel Havlíček gave a good description of this verse: If we do not pour from the barrel, we will soon be left with yeasts on the bottom. I'm not gonna talk about the animal production, the cow reduction. That's a huge problem in itself. I just want to ask if you're going to regulate the sowing, the cultivation of broad-row crops, namely corn, for biogas stations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u107	Thank you. I'll ask the minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u108	We are in a bit of a difficult situation where the Ministry of Agriculture did not set the support of biogas stations here about seven or eight years ago, it did not bind the animal production and adequate size of the rotational areas that the agricultural share of the biogas station would have. So we can hardly distinguish which area the farmer uses at the biogas plant and on the feed base, because it changes every year, it is not a constant value. However, we are set up for next year to see today's mid- and high-risk land, erosion-risk soil, with the GAEC system now being covered, where it is clearly stated how to manage, what they can and cannot do. We're going to redraw and highlight 51 percent of the potentially endangered soils into that layer of the LPIS system, with the fact that we're going to legally tell them: "Dear farmer, if there's an erosion event on these areas that you see and that you can influence, we're going to automatically tilt the soil block into GAEC mode, where there are medium and heavily endangered erosion soil blocks today. The farmer will know in advance which areas this may occur, and it is in his hands to decide whether or not to sow a broad line crop there, because the threat that threatens him is quite large. We are trying to have a positive negative incentive for the farmer to have in his hands and influence the decision himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u109	I thank both the Minister and the Member. Let us move on to the third interview where Mr Rom Kostřica will intersect the absent Minister Dan Ťok on the schedule of repairs on the D1 motorway. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u110	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, given the absence of Minister Took, I would like to do nothing but withdraw my intervention and hope for a happy draw next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u111	Thank you, honourable Member. Let's move on to the fourth interpellation. Mrs Miroslava Němcová will intersect the absent Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on diplomatic passports. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u112	Thank you. At the request of the Prague Castle, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a diplomatic passport to Mr. Martin Nejedlý. There's not much to know about this person. The hrad does not answer questions about his person, and from what we have learned, only the following can be quoted from public sources: Martin Nejedlý has been an external advisor to the President of the Republic since 2014. He has three offices assigned at Prague Castle, but since he has no official office, he is not in any official structure of the Prague Castle staff, he does not need to ask for security clearance and does not pay any salary for what he does for the President. What we do know safely, however, is that according to the decision of the First Instance Court, Lukoil, where Mr Martin Nejedlý was acting, has to pay the Czech Republic 27.5 miles. CZK due to breach of contract in the storage of aviation fuel. The reason the Ministry of Foreign Affairs granted the passport is this. He says he's escorting the President on foreign travels. Asked by former Minister of Foreign Affairs Cyril Svoboda, he said that he considered this passport to be extremely problematic because Mr Nejedlý has no official diplomatic mission and does not yet make him a diplomat in the delegation. [[16.20 hours]] My questions are: What is Mr Martin Nejedlý doing for the Czech Republic? Secondly, whether all participants who have ever been in the delegation of the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman can also apply for a diplomatic passport and receive it. And if they don't, why don't they get it? I will remind you that this concerns both journalists and athletes and artists and entrepreneurs. I will wait very impatiently for these answers, given that the Minister has not arrived, even though he was here this morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u113	I thank Mrs Němcová, she will be answered in writing. We will proceed to the fifth interpelation, also to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Mr Martin Novotný, also on diplomatic passports, will be asked. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u114	Thank you for the floor. The question will be similar, of course, at a distance, waiting for a written answer. I found out from public sources, in various media places it says that diplomatic passports around the population of the Czech Republic are running around some 6 700. Relevant Act No. 329/1999 Coll. defines precisely the categories of people who are entitled to them, in general they are constitutional officials as one category and our diplomats and their family members at the mission site, and then there is paragraph 1. A diplomatic passport may be issued with the consent of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. My question points to how many of those 6,700 approximately rounded diplomatic passports belong to that category of constitutional officials, diplomats and their relatives, and how much to change into that category according to paragraph 2, i.e. to those other persons, it was issued and what international customs are and what criteria are most often assessed in this issue. The question is motivated simply. At the moment, there was uncertainty in the Czech public about how much this is truly a transparent process and how much it could be used to issue passports to friends and persons who, from an objective point of view, should not be entitled to them. Uncovering those numbers could help us understand the situation. I believe that we will learn this information in the Minister's written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u115	I thank Mr Novotný. I also believe that we will learn this information in a written reply. Another interviewer will be Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who will also interpel the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek in the case of migrants in Germany. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u116	Thank you, Mr President. When I spoke this morning about asking for an answer from Minister Chovanec, he wasn't, so I was interrupted again. Then when I saw the Foreign Minister running around, I was glad that at least someone would answer, so I wrote two interpelations on him, but unfortunately he's not here again. I wanted to know from him what the current situation is in some establishments in Germany, where we actually have the opportunity to see great concentration of migrants and unrest in cities such as Leipzig, Dresden, Kassel, Hamburg, Heidenau etc., but given that he is not here, I am withdrawing this interpelation because before he writes back to me in a month, the situation will no longer be up to date. That means I'm downloading interpellation number 37. I'm not going to interpel someone who doesn't go to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u117	I thank Mr Ondráček. Mr Radek Vondráček, who will intersect the absent Minister Dan Ťok on the charging of bypasses of the city of Kroměříž, will give the seventh interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u118	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Transport, I warmly greet Luxembourg where you are. This interpelation here is not the first step I take in relation to the charging of the city of Kroměříž bypass. I've already turned to Mr. Prachař's predecessor, I've turned to ministerial servants, the Deputy Minister. The situation is simple. I won't delay technical details. The city of Kromeriz had a bypass. The second asphalt belt was built next to it, a section of the D1 motorway was created and the city of Kroměříž lost its toll-free bypass. This causes considerable problems in our city, where mostly the industrial part on one side of Moravia is connected by one bridge with the residential part and every day at regular times there are large and problematic traffic. The citizens of Kroměříž view this situation as very serious and it is a very common discussion topic in my village. At my request, the ministerial servants have already told me in the past that we cannot have an exception because this is a non-conceptual solution to such a situation. [[Note off the microphone towards the President: I may not be running out of time. I'm not mad, I'm just not running out of time.]] Okay. I accepted this argument, and subsequently I began to communicate with the Ministry of Transport in the sense that all similar cities should be treated equally, so that they would have a chance of an unpaid bypass, which would affect the quality of the environment in cities and increase safety on the road inside the city. The last signal I have from the Ministry is that perhaps an analysis has been prepared that this would concern approximately 30 municipalities in this country, and a budget cutout for unpaid coupons could amount to up to half a billion crowns. It's really just hearsay. Minister, I would like to know in particular whether this analysis exists, I would really like to know if there is a real chance that my city will have an unpaid bypass that it once had and deserves. In case you build us a new one, we don't insist on not charging the D1 section, but I really don't know where we'd build it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u119	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. And we are coming to the eighth interview by Mr Radim Holeček, who will intersect the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec on migration issues in Ústeck. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u120	Dear absent Minister, I would like to interpel you on the matter of mostly male detention facilities in Drahonice, Lounsko, which started operation this Monday. As a Member elected for the Ústí Region, I completely disagree with this. The Ústí Region must have different priorities than taking care of 240 refugees. The costs for taxpayers are estimated at 2,5 million. Crowns a month. Our region faces a number of other problems, mostly socio-demographic and socio-economic. So far, the situation in excluded localities has managed to stabilize fairly well. So please don't let us in on any more migrants who, after being released from the detention facility, are free to move around the area. So I'm asking you to cancel this containment facility. And for a written answer, I add the following questions. Firstly, according to the analysis of the Ministry of the Interior, qualified majority voting on quotas contradicts European law. Then why won't the Czech Republic turn to the court? Secondly, does the government know how many refugees it will receive, in what years and from which countries? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u121	I thank Mr Holečka, he too will be answered in writing. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, who will interpel Mr. Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček, on bribery of doctors for sending patients to special centres, will be the next interviewer. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u122	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I have received suggestions establishing suspicion that some private specialised clinics bribe doctors for sending patients to these clinics in a targeted way. This is, however, in direct conflict with the ethics code of the Czech Medical Chamber, which commands doctors to follow the medical needs and benefits of the patient and not self-inflicted motives when recommending care. Such practice is probably to the detriment of health insurance companies, which are subsequently covered by often necessary care, and also to the detriment of patients. Patients often develop health damage or health risks from unnecessary or inappropriate procedures. The problem is more serious when it comes to treatments not covered by health insurance, and patients pay tens of thousands, sometimes hundreds of thousands in good faith that doctors recommend the best. The available information indicates that there are dozens of doctors and thousands of patients, many of whom have already suffered serious health damage in some clinics by using a drug in an unapproved indication, e.g. for Avastin. By contract, doctors are sent amounts for interventions not covered by health insurance, which are carried out by the clinic in the course of their business. Doctors are contracted to inform their patients about the possibilities of procedures not covered by the health insurance offered by the clinic, in particular to recommend the execution of non-replaced procedures at this clinic. [[16.30 hours]] At the same time, doctors undertake to provide these services exclusively for this particular clinic, which then pays such a doctor a specified remuneration for these services. According to the available contract, the clinic provides such a doctor with a reward of CZK 10,000 a month. This case described relates to eye clinics. Similar financial motivations for doctors include gynecologists sent to assisted reproduction clinics and similar indications exist in other areas of care. This is not only an ethical problem but also a legal one. These payments are contrary to the advertising regulation law, especially when unregistered medicinal products or products outside the approved indication are offered to the general public by clinics and contract doctors. [[Voices from the diaper: Time.]] At the same time, this is a problem of unfair competition that harms not only patients but also other healthcare providers who do not behave this unethically. In this way, there is also significant damage to state faculty hospitals, which often provide far better and safer care than some clinics. Dear Minister, I ask for an answer as to how you will deal with these cases and how you will remedy them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u123	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the details and circumstances of the facts mentioned by you are not known to me at the moment. So I can answer more or less in general. I can therefore state if there is a suspicion of any illegal conduct, it is necessary to contact the competent authorities, in the event of a suspected criminal offence against law enforcement authorities, in the event of a violation of the health legislation, then the competent regional authority. Here, appropriate notifications may be made based on specific facts which give rise to such suspicions. If there is a suspicion of a breach of the legislation on the regulation of advertising in the field of health care provision, it is possible to contact the Ministry of Health directly to address these matters by the competent administrative authority. That means, I want to repeat, of course, that we are prepared to address any stimulus, but we have not yet been approached by any of the victims or any other hospital. If we get any incentive of this type, we will certainly deal with it, or in cooperation with the authorities, which are the subject of this matter from the point of view of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u125	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u126	Thank you for your answer. Of course, I'm ready to hand over the evidence that specifically relates to two eye clinics. And I would like to quote something from the motivational letter that one of these clinics sends to doctors. Together with you, we managed only in 2012 to rid more than ten thousand patients of cataracts and help them to see better again. Newly set standard of the Ministry of Health valid from 1. 1. 2013 is not in line with the internal standards of our clinic in the field of modern treatment of cataracts and it is reasonable to believe that it will not comply with the standards proposed by professional companies. We would like patients to come from your offices already informed about the benefits of modern treatment for cataracts, thanks to which they can deal with other problems with vision along with cataracts. We appreciate your time devoted to patients explaining the issue of modern cataract treatment, and if the patient undergoes such treatment with us, we are ready to compensate you for this time with a new amount of CZK 800 including VAT per eye. The condition is the decision of the patient for an additional fee of over CZK 10,000 per eye and at the same time record in the transmission documentation that the patient is sent for surgery to our clinic. [[Attention on time.]] This record is necessary for the reconciliation of your compensation and also from an accounting point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u127	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u128	I would just like to thank the honourable Member, and I will certainly take over if there are concrete evidence that something like this is happening and we will try to prevent this as much as possible, of course, in cooperation with others. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u129	Thank you, Minister. Nothing more than one particular successful interpellation will please the controller. Mr Simeon Karamazov, who will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš, on a balanced state budget, will give the tenth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u130	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent minister, you stated on the Václav Moravec programme in June 2014 - I quote: "I am convinced that we will have a balanced budget in 2017 given what we have prepared. That's where we're headed. But, of course, we must take action from the point of view of tax collection." End of quote. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka then stated at the end of July this year that the state budget could be balanced in the next parliamentary term. In this context, I ask you which of these views applies. If neither pays, tell me when we will have a really balanced budget according to the current assumptions of your ministry. And will it ever be? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u131	I thank the honourable Member for his intervention, he will be answered in writing. We will now proceed to an interview by Mr Karel Šidl, who will intersect the absent Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the renewal of the route Dobkovičky - Oparno. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent minister, during the construction of the D8 motorway there was a downhill downhill on the newly built D8 motorway. In addition to rolling the motorway, the railway line Řetenice - Lovosice was interrupted in the section between the stations Dobkovičky and Oparno in the length of about 200 meters. It actually happened after more than a hundred years since the line was put into service that the track was interrupted. Since there is now a removal of the slide and the remediation of the slope, allow me to ask the following questions. First of all, does the remediation of the slope count with the renewal of the railway superstructure? Secondly, do you already have a serious calculation of the costs of renewal of the line? Third: in what terms do you expect this construction to be carried out? And four: is the cause of the land slide even known today? Dear Minister, there are currently several petitions to support the renewal of the route. I have the oldest text at my disposal. I expect a factual and written answer from you. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u133	Thank you, honourable Member. We will move on to the twelfth interview, when Mrs Markéta Adamová will intersect the absent Minister Jiří Dienstbier on the case of the Agency for Social Inclusion. Please, madam. [[Minister Dienstbier is sitting in a government desk.]] Sorry, Minister, it's so subtle that I forgot him. I apologize to him. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u134	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The minister slipped away from you. Dear Minister, thank you for being at least one of the brave ones who came to the interview to look and participate. So I would like to ask you a few questions about the Agency for Social Inclusion, where in the spring of this year there was such an unpleasant situation, which I don't need to remind you: the appeal of the then director, the departure of 24 out of a total of 70 employees and the subsequent appointment of a new director. And the questions: Did the twenty-four employees join others who left the agency voluntarily? According to my information, in August some employees ended their employment contracts. So how many employees have not been extended by the contract, either on the initiative of those employees or directly by the employer? Another question would be whether to date all 24 vacant positions are occupied by staff with appropriate qualifications and practice. If the Agency for Social Inclusion has succeeded in stabilizing staff, and so how many people are employed in this agency to date. If the Agency succeeds after this personnel earthquake to ensure that its duties are met, if there is no need to untie cooperation with any community due to this situation. And the last question is how much the situation affected cooperation with the municipalities that had cooperated until then, and whether cooperation with new municipalities and excluded localities would have expanded at all where it would have been needed. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u135	I thank the Member for her questions and ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u136	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on Mrs Adamová's question, I would like to summarize that this year the Agency is working intensively and long-term with 36 municipalities, of which 28 are implementing or are ready to implement a coordinated approach to socially excluded localities, of which 8 municipalities outside the coordinated approach this year 2 have ceased cooperation with the Agency at their own request. It was about Jaroměř and Frýdek-Místek. The reason for this was not the staffing situation in the Agency, but a partially completed degree of cooperation and the fulfilment of the closed memorandum and partly a different view of solving local problems. [[16.40 hours]] Now, about the personnel side of the thing. The agency's basically already staffed up. Between May and August this year, 27 jobs left, i.e. three more than the originally announced number, not all of the consequences of the situation that arose in the spring, out of a total of 70 employees. Currently, selection procedures are under way for one project consultancy expert, there were interviews at the end of last month, and two full-time jobs, respectively. four half, there it is variable, for local consultants for four municipalities. So these are the positions that have not yet been fully replaced. And now to the position of head of one of the departments, the management department and the organization. So these are the four jobs that are still in the solution at this time. Of course, the departure of 12 local consultants who were among those workers who left complicated the agency's work that some processes slowed down for a while. On the other hand, thanks to the dedication of the remaining employees, this has largely been replaced. Within the four municipalities, where there are still four half-time jobs missing, other agency staff are replacing this activity, so I think that there are no major problems with the municipalities with which the Agency is cooperating. Even the new director of the agency, Mr. Jiránek, where the local consultant is not in the four cases, is trying to solve the situation even in person. On 24 September a meeting took place between my colleagues and representatives of all municipalities, respectively. Everyone was invited, almost all of them arrived, to those municipalities that work together in a coordinated approach to socially excluded localities, which is the thing that we promised the representatives of the municipalities in the spring that we would intensify this way of meeting. Perhaps I would mention that we are going to have an even wider meeting next week with the Prime Minister and five other departments that deal with the agendas related to social exclusion, i.e. we are intensifying communication with the representatives of the municipalities on whose territory the so-called socially excluded localities are based on a study published this May. I still have a little time, so I'm gonna use it. According to the current state of affairs, ten strategic social inclusion plans are approved from the first wave of municipalities that have started to cooperate, although at this point it may not be up to date, because, as far as I know, another one was approved yesterday in Bruntal, so it's been about eleven. During November 2015, a further 15-18 strategic plans will be approved in the second wave. This applies, for example, to Litvínova, Děčín or Cologne from the larger cities, and by the end of 2020, at least 70 municipalities should be involved in this coordinated approach, where this local partnership is set up as a strategic plan and then projects are implemented. By the end of this year, a third wave of municipalities should be selected to participate in the process. [[Time limit alert.]] Among those cities that are calling for interest is Most, Chomutov, České Budějovice or Varnsdorf. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u137	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u138	Thank you for your answer. I would still have an additional question, which concerns more the philosophy of the functioning of the Agency, because it was one of the disputes that actually moved those employees there in the spring, and that is therefore more emphasis on helping target clients in terms of ethnicity. If this approach really outweighs in the new staffing structure above all under the new director Jiránek and if you support it, that is to say, that the activity should be more focused on the excluded Rom people, when I say it really as it was offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u139	Thank you, Madame. Please, Minister, for your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u140	This dispute, which was mentioned here, never existed. That was virtual. All the while I have stressed that the fundamental strategic focus is not to change in the Agency, that the aim is to help solve socially excluded localities regardless of ethnicity, the composition of the population in socially excluded localities. Of course, this activity is not only aimed at people who live in socially excluded localities, but at the community as a whole, where the aim is to overcome the consequences of social exclusion, the existence of a socially excluded locality, or more localities, and to help people in the locality as well as others, because, of course, the presence of the locality and the pathological phenomena related to it are aggravating the quality of life of all people in the village. So nothing was ever supposed to change about the strategy, which I said from the start, and nothing has changed about it either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u141	I thank the Minister for his reply. We will proceed to another 13th interpellation, when Mr Leoš Heger will also interpel Mr Jiří Dienstbier on the work of the working group on obstetrics. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u142	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of the Government on Equal Opportunities for Women and I can set up a working group on obstetrics, which started its activities in January 2015. Its composition and minutes from the first meeting were published on the website of the Government of the Czech Republic. Since then, nothing else has been published, but there have been protests from the medical professional public, namely by a letter from the Czech neo-Natological Society, its chairman complained about the uneven composition of the commission, where the representation of obstetricians and neo-Natologists is very minor. I would therefore like to ask why, on the one hand, this issue has been included under the Equal Opportunities Council of the Government of Women and Men, because it has traditionally been a gesture of this area, which is considered to be a professional, health minister or the Ministry of Health. So much for my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u143	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u144	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, Mr Hegř, I would like to say here that this task force has been created by the Council of the Government on Gender Equality, and this Council, according to its Statute, can initiate the creation of different working groups for various problems which the Council deals with as an advisory body of the Government. That is why, on the initiative of the members of this Council, this group was also set up because they considered it a serious issue. Following the establishment of a working group in April of this year, its members and members agreed that it would be good to extend its composition to representatives or representatives of other professional companies dealing with various aspects of childbirth care and that it was always declared that the working group was not a closed entity. On 24 June 2015, the Czech neo-Natological Society sent an objection to me as Chairman of the Board and Prime Minister against the establishment of the expertise and work of the Working Group, where, among other things, it asks for the creation of an institution of this focus under the Ministry of Health, which is not for me to assess whether the Minister of Health will create such a working group within his department. [[16.50 hours]] However, in the meantime between April and June, the secretary of the working group was contacted by the Ministry of Health with a request for recommendations of specific subjects that would be appropriate to donominate to the working group, and also based on the answers and recommendations of the Ministry of Health, the following five subjects were selected, namely the Czech neo-Natological Society, the Czech Paediatric Society, the Professional Society of Practical Paediatric Physicians and the Czech Society of Midwives and the Association of Health Insurance Companies. On 30 June, a letter was sent to these five bodies on my behalf requesting nominations from a representative to a working group. We have received two nominations to date. In line with the nominations, the group was expanded. On 28 July I received a letter from the Czech neo-Natological Society with a negative opinion on the offer of membership in the working group due to the supposedly proportional composition of the working group, omission of persons with medical expertise and alleged dehoness work of professional companies. Among other things, I was accused that there were no representatives of the very professional companies that I had previously called on to donominate their representatives. I exchanged another letter with a neonatal society. Last week, I signed an answer explaining the reasons for the procedure in roughly the same spirit as I explained here. The offer applies, of course, and this professional company can send its representative to the working group. Finally, I would like to point out that this working group, on the initiative of the Council, deals with not simply the purely medical view of the matter, but the broader contexts on the issue of childbirth, the way, the place, the aid in this context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u145	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u146	Thank you for explaining. This interpelation is not an aggressive attack on the whole structure, only somehow what it inspires especially in medical circles is very exciting. And the struggle between midwifes, a relatively minority group of women who wish to give birth at home, and doctors are long-term and very serious. Apart from the fact that the Constitutional Court has also expressed itself indirectly. So the issue is complicated. I am aware of that, but I would still ask you what you think of the argument that it is an effort to protect not only the rights of women who want to give birth at home but also the rights of the child. Because, after all, the risk is a little bit greater in birthing the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u147	Thank you for the additional question. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u148	Dear Member, of course I think that everyone's rights are to protect themselves. Well, both the women of the parent and the child. I assume that the task force should also take into account all the contexts, and I myself cannot at this point anticipate what conclusions will be made, because unlike the people who have been nominated there and who are experts in the various areas that are related to this issue, I cannot anticipate that, therefore, nor do I want to. I expect that this group could make some recommendations, which will, of course, ensure that quality care is provided, but that at the same time a certain other dimension of the matter will be ensured, perhaps even a certain choice of those concerned, in terms of the way of care, without having any negative impact on the health of the parents or newborn women.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u149	I thank the Minister for his additional reply. We'll proceed to the 14th interpellation. Mrs Jana Černochová will intersect the absent Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the scope of direct pedagogical activities of pedagogical staff. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u150	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must say, I am very sorry that the new Secretary of State has gotten used to the unfair practices of other ministers so quickly. And I don't know if she's been involved in a single interview since she's been in office. I don't think she was here last time. And I am very sorry, because I have some hopes in her that under her leadership, the Department of Education could really move somewhere further, so I am disappointed that I cannot ask the Minister about the things that are weighing on me, and I will have to give an interview in writing. So I'm using these two minutes of mine to ask the absent Prime Minister to actually appeal to all ministers within his government to avoid this awkward apology of 90 percent of ministers as it is today. The interpelations are not so often, and they know and in the Rules of Procedure, in the law are determined times when the interpelations are. So as part of their program and schedule, they can arrange everything so that they can be here. And at this point, Mr. Vice-President, there is no one at all! So me, we have to... Where are we??
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u151	I can see that, madam, but I didn't want to interrupt you. So as soon as you're done talking, I'm gonna have to interrupt the House meeting in the presence of at least one member of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u152	What arrogance the highest! Not yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u153	I hope so. [[Minister Němeček returns to the hall.]] I already see a minister, so I won't have to interrupt. At least we found one. I think even applause deserves to be here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u154	I am always sorry that our criticisms and comments are being heard by those ministers who are finally sitting here again. Of course, I'm not saying it's okay that there was no one here at one point. But I really ask that the Prime Minister and, in particular, members of the government coalition, also interpret this on their parliamentary clubs and insist that we have the opportunity here every two weeks to intervene with the ministers or Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u155	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. We will proceed to the 15th interview where Mrs Věra Kovářová will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš on the grant programme for school construction. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u156	Dear Minister, I have decided to interpel you in the matter of the Ministry of Finance's subsidy programme No. 298213, which is called Support for the Development and Reconstruction of the Material Technical Base of Regional Schools in the Surroundings of Large Towns. Two reasons lead me to this. Firstly, in response to my earlier interpellation regarding this programme, you said that the next call would be issued no later than September of this year. We've had almost a third of October, and there's no mark on the Ministry of Finance's website. I have learned from one of the mayors elected under the YES movement that, contrary to the original idea, the conditions of this subsidy sub-programme are to be adjusted when only smaller projects are to continue to be supported. Dear Minister, first of all, can you keep your promise and call a challenge? And secondly, deny speculation about changing the terms of this subsidy program? Thank you for your written answer. I'm just saying, I understand that some ministers are excused for work reasons. However, if we give oral questioning and the minister can answer now, we have the answer now. I only get a few answers in writing on such serious things as the capacity of primary schools, and I am sorry because the topicality of this problem is great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. It will also be answered in writing. Mrs Marta Semelová will give the 16th interview. She will also interpel the absent Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the provision of food in schools and kindergartens. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u158	Thank you. The Minister, the amendment to the Education Act, which we approved here in the Chamber of Deputies in mid-February of this year, regulates, among other things. limitation of availability and advertising for health-risk food in schools and educational establishments. However, despite this legislative measure, food offered in vending machines and school buffets remains free from regulation. As of 1 September 2015, the Decree of the Ministry of Education was to apply, which, on the basis of the limits laid down by the Ministry of Health, contained instructions which food and drink can and cannot be offered in schools. According to information from the press, however, this decree is still not completed and the Ministry of Education cannot say when it will be completed and when it will enter into force. I therefore wanted to ask what the current state of the hearing is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u159	Perhaps you will find out in writing, Madame. We'll proceed to another interpellation. President Zbyněk Stanjura will intersect Minister Dan Ťok on the toll system. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u160	Well, I see one MP after another and the ministers aren't here. Because I consider the issue serious, I will give the interview and request a written answer. On Tuesday we learned from the media and then from the Press Release of the Ministry of Transport that the Ministry of Transport concluded a framework contract for the activities of the technical and organizational myth on Tuesday morning before the meeting of the Management Committee for the Myth, in a simple way. It was out of hand, without a tender, for 52 million, the alleged reason is time distress. So let's take a look at the time distress together. The Minister of Transport for the ANO movement joined the Ministry in January 2014. That's 19 months ago, even 21 months ago. The former Minister of Transport Prachař issued a tender for the myth advisor, the competition took place, and I know from the press that the winning offer or the best offer was worth 23 million, after the arrival of Minister Jok the new Minister of Transport declared that the consultant did not need it, that it was unnecessary, and cancelled the competition so that after - he joined in December, that is, after ten months when he himself operates as the Minister of Transport, he said that he was in time distress and concluded a contract worth 52 million. So I want to ask the Minister these questions: Who caused the time distress? How did this time distress come about? What was he doing at the Department of Transport for ten months that he wasn't willing and able to write a tender? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u161	I thank Mr Stanjur. Mr René Číp, who will interpelise the present Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on the matter of religious restitution, will give an 18th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u162	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on a particular issue of one citizen, but as I have learned, it is not a problem that concerns only him. This citizen bought two plots from the Land Fund of the Czech Republic in 2012 in the village of Bílovec. It was arable land. He duly paid the price stipulated by the purchase contract and the land became its property. At the same time, he received confirmation that the land was not the property of the church, religious society, order or congregation according to the land register and previous records. So he acquired the land and began to use it in good faith. As a result, he was appalled when, in 2015, Roman Catholic parish Bílovec filed criminal charges against him and the Land Fund for the determination of ownership. Why must a blameless citizen suddenly get on the side of the defendant and have anything to do with the law when he only wanted to invest in arable land and did nothing wrong? So now that these restitutions are here, and they are not only about real estate, but also about money transactions, why do these cases have to happen and some of our citizens find themselves on the defendant's side without their doing? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u163	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister of Agriculture for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u164	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleagues, my dear fellow Members, I must say that the situation in which this citizen is situated, and these cases are more, is very unpleasant. I fully understand that this is a condition that does not conflict, let's say, with good manners and with the predictability of someone getting something in good faith and then getting into this situation. However, there is not yet a legislative mechanism to remember these cases. I must say that we will have to deal intensively with how to help resolve this situation. I see here that maybe they would offer some other, substitute, alternative land in this case to the church or order, I don't know who was there exactly, if it's a bishopship or order, as you mentioned, and try to preserve the property that the person who bought it has acquired, maybe he's already managed with it in some way, maybe he's created some kind of investment there, we're going to try to solve the situation, whether practically in the regime that I described, but rather we're going to have to create some legislative legal framework that we're going to cover these situations. I must say that this is a matter which the petitioners of the property settlement law did not count on, I must say that this has also happened quite often, this condition, and the error of the Land Fund officials, subsequently the State Land Office. So he's really to blame here, and he has to face this issue. I'm not able to tell you a clear defined solution today that we're going to solve this, but the responsibility I see here, I'm applying to it, and I'm going to want to find that solution within my department.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u165	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u166	I will therefore believe that, as the Minister mentioned here, the legislative legal framework will be treated in some, say, reasonable time horizon, and here the rather sad and grim situations will come to some logical conclusion, which will also be in the right of citizens, who have found themselves in this situation not by their fault and good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u167	I thank both the Member and the Minister. We're coming up on the 19th interpellation. I don't see Mrs Nina Nováková, which means her interpellation is failing, and we're going to proceed to 20. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will intersect Minister Svatopluk Němeček on the management of hospitals. Here comes the minister. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u168	Thank you. I was scared you left. So, Minister, washing the dirty laundry of individual Members - members of the Government - does not belong in the Chamber of Deputies. Nevertheless, I will now devote myself to him, in connection with hospitals. Each hospital gives laundry at a different price and according to my findings, the University Hospital Ostrava pays the most, over 120 million crowns a year. A comparable large hospital, e.g. The Royal Vinohrady University Hospital pays about 50 million crowns a year. As an orderer for laundry services in the faculty hospital, you are also involved. Taping each other over the fingers doesn't go well, virtually. It's not customary for us. We're in a very paradoxical situation here. I understand that the University Hospital in Ostrava may be exceptional, has a department demanding laundry and disinfection, but I think there are more of these hospitals of this type in the Czech Republic, such as the Royal Vinohrady University Hospital, the Faculty Hospital in Pilsen, and yet they wash for much less finance. I would therefore ask you for a clear, ideally well-founded explanation of why the University Hospital in Ostrava is paying incomparably more for laundry than other hospitals in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u169	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course I am not opposed to explaining and taking all the steps I have taken as director of the Ostrava University Hospital. However, I would very much like to see the criticism that sounds here at my address or the hospital be true if the figures were true and if they were not purposeful misinformation and disinterpretation. I do not want to say that the author of these misinterpretations is the Member. I have to say that some time ago I had the opportunity to get to know the outputs - I don't know what to call it - almost not even the outputs can be called - so called. generally beneficial company Kverulant - I think the name is quite apt, I would like to get to know the so-called. Rather, the analysis said ignorant - who, on the basis of the law on free access to information, approached hospitals and asked them: how much do you do laundry for? Period. She didn't ask what structure, if there's a service in it as far as this underwear is concerned, whether there's a staff in it or not. About half of the hospitals answered them in this structure, as I speak, and they sorted it out, they evaluated it. And I also have to state here how it was assessed. They didn't count it on a kilo of laundry as they normally compare these prices, but on a bed and a year. So if I can do this ad absurdum, a hospital that will have few patients, a small turnaround on beds, it won't change the laundry so often, it will have the structure of, say, less infectively demanding departments, so it will come out much better than a hospital, which on the same number of beds will need to have three times the turnover of patients, it will have a more demanding structure and it will be more washable and it will come out expensive according to this so-called. analyses. So when we compared this to the possibilities created by the company, and we got to the table, not only to the output, where they said that the aim was to spit at least a little bit at the Minister of Health, so we just converted the laundry, not the purchase, and there the University Hospital Ostrava got about CZK 18 per kilogram of laundry and at the same time did not stand out, it was on average etc. So I have to say, I find it hard to get used to some of the things that some so-called nonprofit organizations that feed on do not know exactly what they produce. It's obviously got a point -- and I don't want to say that it was intended, it could really just be stupid, but this here really pissed me off, because I think it's really unfair. And I'm going to say the specific thing that comes from this and where we agreed with colleagues from other faculty hospitals that we need to be very careful in communicating information under Law 106. Not that we mention less, but more. We have to ask what structure. Where it can be rewinded and taken advantage of by one number, it needs to be delivered comprehensively so that it cannot be turned against us. Because another co-worker from one faculty hospital, when they asked him about this, said how much they were washing, put in the cost of powder and water, didn't put in the cost of the staff, didn't put in the cost of depreciation, on the technology, and of course it came out that they worked miraculously cheaply. So I'm sorry to be here with these so-called. I meet with the analysis. I still can't get used to it, but that probably belongs to the public space in the Czech Republic, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u171	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u172	I would, therefore, if you contradict the analysis of these surveys, request that you submit your own analysis and publication, which will be based on hard data, so that it can be transparent for everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u173	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u174	Madam, honourable Members, Mr President, of course we have such an analysis for directly managed organisations. Therefore, we do not have them for all hospitals in the Czech Republic, because they are not obliged to communicate to the Ministry the costs of laundry, which are not entirely the most important of what hospitals, which are not managed by the Ministry, are dealing with. However, we have this kind of analysis for a directly controlled hospital, and there's nothing in there that would warrant us to suspect that something at some particular hospital is wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u175	I thank the Minister, Madame. 21. Mr Antonín Seďa, who will intersect the absent defense minister Martin Stropnický, on the outstanding overtime issue, will give an interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, in the past, I have intersected your predecessors around unpaid overtime several times. I even intersected you last year, even though you inherited the problem. You yourself admitted in your reply that the Ministry is looking for formal shortcomings to prolong the solution. However, today it is clear that the court has admitted forty army pilots 50 miles. Crowns. He thus took the view that the commanders had improperly paid 24 - hour service. In my opinion, it's not about the money, it's about justice, when the complaining pilots had to quit their service and became pariahs. It was, and it is still the case, that the government has become a distrustable body for these members and their families. From this point of view, Minister, will our army apologize or will you directly apologize to these pilots who were merely seeking justice? I agree that the atmosphere of trust and decent treatment is important for the service of the homeland. Our army lacks several thousand professional soldiers and cannot stop the departures of soldiers or new recruits. I am convinced that even the atmosphere in the army can contribute to the interest in this service. This is only my brief comment on this for many years with a dragging case, which has been signed by many of your predecessors. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u177	I thank Mr Seďa, he will be answered in writing. Mr Petr Bendl, who will interpel the present Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, on the issue of the ban on sales at holidays, will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u178	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, information has been made public about the efforts of the government coalition to limit sales time in stores in the Czech Republic. Not to mention that this is a rather crucial intervention in the freedom of business in the Czech Republic, but perhaps people from this government coalition will have to get used to it more and more, it is not the only case. Just as people in stores will have to get used to the fact that if the government forbids entrepreneurs to do business, they probably won't get paid for the time they were paid because they could go to work and get a higher wage. However, this measure would also affect producers, in particular, of foodstuffs that are sold fresh. This means that if some days are not able to sell, our food farmers or food producers will also be restricted. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister, whether you agree with this proposed measure and whether you support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u179	I thank Mr Bendl. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u180	Good afternoon again, or early evening. I have to say, I'm probably not the most qualified person to comment on this proposal here. Among other things, this is a Senate bill, not a government legislative initiative. I'm not the promoter or the instigator here of this purpose. I have to say in general that I am not a fan of major interference in any market environment. In general, I'm saying that the state is supposed to be the one who lines the field, cuts the field, and makes sure the rules are fair. [[unintelligible]] That's what I've been saying for a long time, and that's still true. [[17.20 hours]] To your question, I have to say, I can imagine it when it comes to limiting sales time. Let me give you a specific example where I think it has logic, for example, on December 24th. I don't think it's perfectly normal that moms and, in general, people who work in retail are still working at 3:00 on Christmas Eve. I think most normal people will consider that perhaps on Christmas Eve the selling time should somehow be defined. This is a specific example. I imagine there'd be a time limit to when the stores would still be open and when they wouldn't. It is not happy, then, that these people with the tongue out, to say the least, come home and enjoy the Christmas holidays. So much for my answer. I rather adhere to the principle approach to this matter. I'm not able to define specific exact normalities for you here, as this should look, because I repeat, I'm not a petitioner of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u181	Please, Mr. Ambassador, with an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u182	The Prime Minister here today in his intercessions has confirmed that such negotiations exist. I'm concerned that the first Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL doesn't know anything about this. However, thank you for your answer and I will wait for you to act when the standard is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u183	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška, who will intersect the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec in relation to the conditions of detention, will present the 23rd interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u184	When I visited the Bělá-Jezová facility, I saw the state of at least humiliating and from my point of view the inhuman treatment of refugees in the children's room. Overcrowded equipment operating as a worse prison, without adequate provision of the conditions of residence, and given that the vast majority secured is discharged after the expiry of the period and taken to the train which continues in its original direction, and without any real reason for such restrictions on freedom. In such circumstances, the children's detection is contrary to Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatment or Punishment of 1987 is capable of harming these children and, as such, is illegal. Detentions are significantly reduced to rights of access to legal aid and at least to persons requesting international protection are directly infringements of Art. 26 Regulation No 26 of the European Parliament and of the Council 604/2013. The legality of certain collateral pursuant to the Dublin III Regulation has already been expressed by several courts, inter alia, because the definition of the criterion of serious risk of escape, as required by this Regulation, is not laid down in Section 129 of the Act on the residence of foreigners or elsewhere. Nevertheless, his practice continues without fulfilling the requirement to assess each case individually or the possibility of the effective use of more moderate enforcement measures. There are closed persons who could have committed the maximum offence with entry into the Czech Republic, in contrast to restricting personal freedom and inhumane treatment is a criminal offence in our country. In what way is legal responsibility addressed in the Ministry of the Interior's opinion for this action, who, specifically in the line of decision-making, is responsible for it and who will bear criminal responsibility when the lawlessness of the restriction of personal freedom or the effect of mental torment is finally stated?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u185	Thank you, honourable Member. As a teacher, I'd say interpelation one, reading four. The Member shall be answered in writing. Mrs Marie Benešová, who will intersect the absent Minister of Transport Dan Ťok in the matter of claim for damages, will give another interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u186	Thank you for the floor. vážený Minister, the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic has recently declared the completion of the D8 motorway in 2016 as one of its priorities. I'm sure we all welcome that intention. However, the issue of the slide that took place on the construction of this highway remained somewhat aside, especially the issue of responsibility for this slide, which occurred at night from 6. Six to seven. 6. 2013. There is a supervisory expert opinion from 2014 No. 12 out of 20. 12. 2014, which processed the University of Technology Brno, Faculty of Construction, Institute of Geotechnics with headquarters Veveří. This opinion was ordered by . Josef Kačírek and the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways have it fully available. It can be argued from this assessment that that slide was the result of a breach of the legal obligations of mining organisations receiving the exclusive bearing of Dobkovičky located in close proximity to the D8 motorway route, which placed the deposit and slate inappropriately at the top of the slide and did not ensure sufficient dewatering of the quarry, when the combination of these two errors was the cause of the slide in question according to that assessment. Since this event occurred more than two years ago, it cannot be excluded that any claim of the Czech Republic will be suspended, so I think of compensation for damage. The limitation of the claim for damages will certainly occur if first the downhill remediation is realized and then it will be solved who is responsible for the slide. I therefore have two questions in this context. Did the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic or the Directorate of Roads and Motorways take legal steps to recover damage caused by this mining organisation? And if he does not do so and will consider enforcement only after he finds out how others will behave and how they will deal with the above assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u187	Thank you, ma'am. It will be answered in writing. We will proceed to the 25th interpellation, but I do not see Mrs Nytrová, so her interpelation is failing. Mr Michal Kučera, who will interpelise the present Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek, on the matter of sludge in the Ostrava lagoons, will present the 26th session. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u188	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in the case of the elimination of environmental burdens in the OSTRAMO lagoon, you have decided that the preparation for the open selection procedure for decontamination of the earth and preparation for the open selection procedure for water decontamination will be launched immediately. I think, of course, this is the right step, but I would like to point out that the method of disposal of sludge from Ostrava lagoons, i.e. landfilling of toxic sludge at the landfill of hazardous waste CELIO near Litvínov and subsequent burning of sludge in the cement plant in Čížkovice u Lovosice, has in recent times caused huge protests among the residents of the Ústí Region. Dear Minister, I would like to call on you that this method of disposal of poisonous sludge from Ostrava, i.e. combustion in cement plants in the Ústí Region, should no longer be considered in the selection procedure. I want to ask you whether you will take steps to ensure that this method is no longer considered in the selection procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u189	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister of Industry for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u190	Mr President, Mr President, on your question, I would like to say that the Government resolution of 25 September 2013 No. 732 k The report on possible ways of dealing with the crisis situation in the development of the management of key industrial enterprises and the negative outlook for employment development in the Moravian-Silesian Region and on the proposal of the measure was deposited in Annex 1a to the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of the Environment to provide funds for the final solution to the liquidation of the ecological burden of the OSRAMO lagoon with possible submission of material at the government meeting, which will adjust the overall guarantee of the state. The Ministry of Finance is therefore a gestor of this environmental action, pays the costs under the environmental contract with the state enterprise DIAMO, approves the technical documentation and carries out a cost-effectiveness check. [[17.30 hours]] The Ministry of the Environment sets out the technical conditions for the implementation of the contract and the terms of the bailout. The Ministry of Industry and Trade from the position of the founder of Diamo, a state enterprise, is an intermediary between him and the above departments and participates in quarterly control days. Framework contracts have already been concluded with five candidates for the removal of excess sludge from lagoons. The second round of the contract is now underway to remove over-billing sludges from lagoons in the amount of 71 360 tonnes of raw non-grained sludge and 20 202 tonnes of limed sludge. The applicants were obliged to provide a positive opinion of the expert guarantor, the Ministry of Environment, on the implementation project. The overbilant sludge is viewed throughout the time of handling them, this is from their removal to their final recovery or disposal, as waste within the meaning of Act No. 185/2001 Coll., on Waste, as amended. The sludge will be used energyally in incinerators and cement plants, specific locations will be known only after the winning candidate has been selected. The sludges shall be removed from lagoons within three years of the signature of the implementing contract with the selected contractor and shall be used on terminal equipment no later than the next two years. Furthermore, the State-owned undertaking Diamo prepares tender documents for the publication of a tender for suppliers of soil decontamination located in the basement and in the immediate vicinity of lagoons. The expected deadline for submission of documentation for approval of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment is November 2015. The documents for the publication of the tender for measures in the context of the dispersion of contaminated groundwater, the so-called brine, are also prepared. The implementation project will be processed in the near future. Finally, at this point, I would like to emphasise that I am paying particular attention to the completion of this environmental contract from the time of taking up my duties and I have visited this area in person several times. As far as the specific combustion or designation of the sites is concerned, the competition is so complicated that each of the solvers or candidates in this tender must present a final solution to how they will get rid of everything so that it does not remain in some warehouse with a third company, as it has already happened to us in the past. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u191	The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u192	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say that if this is the way you were talking about it, that is, landfilling at the landfill of hazardous waste Celio and then burning at the cement plant, it will cause huge protests in the Ústí Region. [[unintelligible]] The Ústí Region is not only a region with the highest unemployment rate in the Czech Republic, but also a region where the lowest age of survival is the highest infant mortality rate. And rightly some people believe, or many people from the Ústí Region believe that this is how you make the Ústí Region a garbage can of the Czech Republic. I would like to ask the additional question whether, if this kind of liquidation takes place in the Ústí Region, which I strongly protest against, even if this type of liquidation occurs, if you are planning any financial compensation towards the residents of the Ústí Region and the regions concerned where this combustion will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u193	Thank you, honourable Member. The Minister is interested in an additional answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u194	To the additional question, I would like to state, as was already apparent from my previous word, at this point, there is no place where the final combustion will eventually occur. This must be submitted by the applicants for the contract. Part of this proposal must also be to ensure that the approval of the surroundings of the operation, whether located in the Ústí Region or in another region of the Czech Republic, is necessary to burn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u195	Thank you, Minister. Mr Radim Holeček, who I do not see, therefore his interpelation is failing, will give the next interview, and Mr Michal Kučera, who will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, will repeat the interpelation for great success in the matter of Europeanly important localities. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u196	Thank you for the floor. Like you said, for a great success a second time. Dear Minister of the Environment, I would like to ask you about the deadline for submitting a proposal to the Government to supplement the Natura 2000 system. As you know, the Czech Republic has a debt in this addition, it has a debt of course and an obligation to its commitments in the European Union. To complement the Natura 2000 system, you were invited by its resolution as well as by the Sub-Committee on Nature and Landscape Conservation, which met this year and adopted a resolution on speedy additions. That is, the question is: at what time will you present the proposal for a supplement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u197	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, fellow Members, colleagues. As you rightly said, it is indeed an obligation for the Czech Republic to complete these European sites by the end of 2015. We started the process between resorts in July. We are currently finishing the settlement of comments. In total, more than 200 of these fundamental comments were made. It is no secret that there are, of course, questionable sites that cause relatively controversial reactions in a number of resorts, and it is, say, five to six locations concerning, for example, the Elbe and other areas. At present, we are actually at the end of the settlement of comments at the level of the Deputy Ministers. This process should be completed next week. Subsequently, we will still be dealing at ministerial level. So I expect this material to be submitted to the government by the end of November of this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u199	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u200	I would like to thank you for the specific deadline. I think this is very important that there is November of this year. I would just like to point out that, even in the case of these disputed or according to the words of Minister Brabec of the disputed sites, in the event that this commitment is not completed or fulfilled, this may pose a threat to the drawing of the Operational Programme Environment. That means if we don't complete the system in the term we're talking about here, the pumping might be compromised. If you're aware of this, or if you have any backup options prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u201	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u202	Yes, there really is such a threat here at least on the theoretical level. Even the Czech Republic is already under the management of the EU Pilot, which is the first stage before any danger of infringement proceedings. We firmly believe that we will be able to agree such a compromise with the ministries and, after all, with the European Commission, which will suit all parties. And it won't be easy. Now I would not like to talk about a backup solution, because it is premature, but I firmly believe that the agreement will take place, and, of course, in the meantime, we are already in constant negotiations with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u203	Thank you, Minister. The next interviewer will be Mr Antonín Seďa, who will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš on the regulation of gambling. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u204	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. vážený Vice-President of the Government, on Tuesday there was a meeting marathon around Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games presented by colleague Jan Volný. Your ministry has prepared a bill that differs, and, frankly, after a long debate in plenary, there are still questions about why two proposals have been made, why your ministry has not submitted a government proposal in time. There is even a risk that there will be no increase in the taxation of gambling due to obstructions. Today, it has been decided that your ministry will quickly prepare a government bill that the government will discuss and which will replace this parliamentary proposal. I have even heard speculation that you have met with the owner of Synot's holding company and that the parliamentary proposal is some compromise with the gambling industry. [[17.40 hours]] Minister, for these reasons, I would ask you not only to respond to these speculations, but to explain in particular the reasons why you are dealing with higher taxation and regulation of gambling not with your own bill, but with a proposal from the Members. I also want to ask about information that I personally consider to be at least distorted again, that you or your companies also have shares in companies operating in lotteries or in general gambling. I just want to make sure that the strong lobby of this gambling industry doesn't run or affect your decision. Finally, Minister, how do you really see your ministry's progress on gambling regulation, including the timetable for the adoption of its own law? Thank you for your open answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u205	I also thank Mr Seďa, who will be answered in writing. Mrs Pavlína Nytrová, who is not present, should submit further interpellation, thus failing her intervention. We are coming to an interview by Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel the absent Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová on the drawing of European money. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u206	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask what is the current estimate of the appropriations from the programming period 2007 to 2013 which the Czech Republic will not draw. At the same time, I would like to ask what steps this government is taking so that a situation where a significant amount of European money remains unused does not repeat itself in the case of the 2014 to 2020. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u207	Thank you, ma'am. It will be answered in writing. 32. Mr Jan Zahradník, who will interpel the absent Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, will give an interview on the change of territory in Boletice. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u208	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Minister, at the end of 2014, Parliament's Chamber of Deputies passed the Act of 14 January 2015 on the abolition of Brda's military retreat, on the setting of borders for military retreats, on the change of borders for regions and on the amendment of related laws, or the Act on the border for military retreats. Paragraph 2 of this Act, which also changes the boundaries of the military retreat of Boletice, contains paragraph 3 letters. (c) as amended by: The border of the military retreat of Boletice is changed by joining the existing cadastral territory of the military retreat of Boletice, Moubový vrch and Maňávka near Český Krumlov to the territory of the village Horní Planá. This Act shall take effect on 1 January 2016. I ask you a question, Minister, how are the Ministry of Defence and the Army of the Czech Republic preparing to hand over these cadastral territories under civil administration and to make these territories freely accessible to visitors from that date. I have another question. In 1950 the northern part of the town of Horní Planá, such as the area around the Mushroom Hill, was taken into the military retreat of Boletice, including the land as at 31. 12. 1949 owned by the city. To 1. 1. 2016 this part of the Horní Planá cadastral from VÚ Boletice will be released and will be connected back to the Horní Planá cadastral. In this case, however, property conditions are no longer addressed. The Upper Plana will have land under the current bill, which it owned as of 31. 12. 1949, back in its cadastral territory, however, they will remain state-owned. Is the State considering returning these land to the city of Upper Plana? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u209	I thank Mr Zahradník. 33. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will interpel the present Minister of Health, Svatopluk Němeček, will give an interview on replacing the OCT examination. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u210	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the State Institute for Drug Control sets health performance, the so-called OCT treatment on the eye tomograph, in the indicative limits of certain medicinal preparations as a condition of health insurance reimbursement. However, this treatment is not covered by health insurance. Insured persons are thus forced to pay them out of their own funds, thereby limiting the availability of the medicinal product subject to this examination. In the long term, health insurance companies refuse to pay for the OCT examination by means of public health insurance, on the basis of the argument that it is an unreplaced health insurance exercise as such, as it is not included in the list of health performances set out in the decree issuing the list of health performances with point values. Given that the examination completely corresponds to the criteria defining care covered by health insurance, if health insurance companies refuse to pay for the health insurance examination, they act unlawfully and apparently contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic in my opinion. I would like to ask for an answer to the question and an explanation of the reasons why OCT health insurance is not covered by health insurance in practice, information on how to choose a procedure in relation to a health insurance undertaking to act in accordance with the law and an examination of the OCT from public health insurance to patients, and an explanation as to why the OCT examination is not yet included in the list of health performances set out in the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u211	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u212	Mr President, honourable Members, the OCT examination, or optically coherent tomography, is a relatively new investigative method. In order for such care to be covered by public health insurance, it must comply with the conditions of remuneration under Section 13 of Law No. 48 about public health insurance. However, the relevant professional company has not yet submitted a proposal to the Working Group on the list of health performances of the Ministry of Health for assessment and decision on the method and level of remuneration from public health insurance. The OCT examination could therefore not yet be included in the list of health performances. If the experts concerned come to the Commission with such an incentive, the Commission will certainly rationally assess the need for this performance and nothing will prevent it from being included in the next amendment to the list of health performances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u213	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u214	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I just want to point out that if those health insurance companies wanted to, of course, they could pay for this examination on the basis of their own performance, like, for example, the performances on the Gamma Knife or the Cyber Knife as their own performances on the health insurance company. There's another problem. When a practice or another doctor, an ophthalmologist, sends a patient with anticipated macular degeneration to a private eye clinic, he also passes the payment for a very expensive medicine to this facility in addition to the payment from the insurance company. It remains a question of how much patients pay such a clinic for this medicine, such as Avastin or Lucentis. It can be assumed that even more than the recommended price. However, if such a patient were treated in the centre of specialised care, Avastin or other necessary medicine would be covered by public health insurance. The question is whether it is ethical that a doctor sends a patient to a specific clinic and not to specialized centres approved by both the Ministry of Health and health insurance companies. In addition, there is this moment that in some cases Avastin has been used in unidentified care and patients' vision at a particular clinic has been impaired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u215	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u216	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that this is a bit of a continuation or addition to Mr Hovorka's first interpellation concerning, say, at least very suspicious practices of some private eye clinics. I have no choice but to say what I said before that I thank you for this suggestion that we will look into it. We will try all this information from the Member and, say, from others to complete, put together, and then proceed on the basis of those findings, if they are disturbing, in all the ways the law allows us. Thank you again for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u217	Thank you, Minister. 34th Mr Petr Bendl, who will interpel the absent Lady of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová, on the organisation of community service, will give an interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u218	Thank you. Madam absent Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, at a work meeting with the Union of the Municipalities of Rakovnicka, I learned that the authorities of the work report to the municipalities contracts on the basis of which the so-called contracts are supported. Public works, and people who would normally be in the register of the Labour Office, are also engaged in activities for the benefit of the public or for the benefit of the municipalities. The authorities of the work report these contracts. People who have done these community service work are obliged to register at the employment office and must not go back for at least six months to do community service. I consider this to be a waste of state resources and, on the one hand, absolutely illogical behaviour in terms of working whether those people want to return to the work process etc. The municipalities are having huge trouble convincing anyone at all and getting them to do community service work, and this is absolutely counter-direction. Can you explain to me what this means, and why do you force people doing community service to be required to register for at least half a year at the office of employment and to return to work in the new financial period of the European Union for the benefit of the public when they are paid at the employment offices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u219	I thank the honourable Member, he will be answered in writing. I'm downloading my interpelation, even if I were to interpel until I cried, but there's no one here to replace me. The next one is Mrs Jana Černochová, who I also do not see. Therefore, her interpelation is failing. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček - I do not see him either. Also, his interpellation is failing. Mr Simeon Karamazov twice in a row - I do not see him either. Also, his interpellation is failing. Mrs Věra Kovářová, she is present, but she is withdrawing the interpellation. And Mr Ludvík Hovorka will intersect Minister Richard Brabec present in the matter of moving the deadline for completion of constructions. [[Responses in the auditorium]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u220	Minister - thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to ask you about the latest challenge from the Environment Operational Programme to build sewerage. Did it happen that The State Environmental Fund has made available relatively significant funds for the implementation of this operational programme for the period 2007 to 2013. There were relatively gallows dates because the constructions started and had to finish this year. But there are signals from various buildings that it's a problem to complete these constructions by the end of the year. It is concluded that the deadlines are not fulfilled, that the winter period is taking place during which for technological reasons some work cannot be completed. So I wanted to ask if it is possible to postpone these deadlines in order to avoid damage or failure to meet the quality of these buildings in order to comply with the technological procedures and quality of the work carried out. I know that we are bound by the rules of the programme, bound apparently by the treaties, by the agreements with the European Union. Nevertheless, I would like to ask that these buildings have an extended term, if possible, to avoid poor quality work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u221	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister. They say the best for last, so today you're the best. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ambassador, as Karel Gott says, I really didn't expect him to come to me with this interception. I will disappoint you, but I think you expect me to disappoint you a little, because unfortunately, the Czech Republic has failed despite all efforts at different levels to win the N+3 rule for the end of the programming period. We knew that a number of projects would be in big trouble, which is why, I think, by working together very intensively, the Ministry of the Environment and, above all, the State Environmental Fund, we managed those projects primarily in the priority axis of number 1, i.e. those water management projects that have a very long period of implementation and have been largely neglected, in order to essentially cancel those projects or withdraw from those projects where there was an acute risk that they would not be completed. We are currently running literally several hundred or even the first thousand of these projects individually, tens of thousands of them, I think, are still tens of them overall, and some of them have taken advantage of the possibility of so-called. Phases, i.e. breakdown, partially transfer to the new programming period 2014 to 2020. It was not possible somewhere, but the rule of eligibility of expenditure quite uncompromisingly states that payments made by the beneficiary must be made by 31. 12. 2015. Where we actually suspected or indicated the risk, the managing authority of the Environment operational programme withdrew from the registration sheets, and all other beneficiaries receive maximum support, including work on the fund on Saturday and Sunday, or late evenings, so as to minimise the risk that the projects will not be completed. But it cannot really be excluded that some projects cannot be completed, e.g. because of the competition or complaints against the UOHS, by the end of December, but I hope they will be units of projects. A year ago, we were threatened by hundreds of projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u223	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u224	Thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, based on the experience that they are, I would like to ask the Ministry of the Environment and the State Fund to respond, if necessary, to initiatives from some realizations in the context of the public procurement law. There is the fact that the competition for the delivery is, for example, a sewerage competition for the price. Only for the price. And a firm or investor with a gallows term is afraid in the case of the lowest delivery, even if it is, say, a company without any history, not to close a contract and it occurs that it may then participate in the construction of a consortium that is shielded by some company that then doesn't even show up at the construction site, and in the end it is done by a company that doesn't have authorization, it has one technique, it has five employees and it gives it to other companies that then roam there after the construction. [[Time.]] So this is a serious matter that should be dealt with in the future to avoid what is happening at construction sites today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u225	Please, Minister, the final word is yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u226	I didn't expect that, but I appreciate it even more. I want to assure you, Mr. Ambassador, that we are paying a lot of attention to this. And you know well that she is, of course, a joint responsibility mainly on the basis of the Public Procurement Act, which will soon be in the House in negotiations, and somewhere, unfortunately, the possibility to judge this is different from the price. The new law will create a new space for this. You're right, these cases have actually happened, and in many cases they have even been the subject of correction. Even some projects were cancelled on this basis and in some cases the municipalities were innocent, but unfortunately the managing or audit authority had to decide to cancel the project. That's all he had left, because he would've exposed himself to sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-012-206.u227	Thank you, Minister. That was the last of today's interpelations. I'm interrupting the House meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning and have a nice evening.
