ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u1	155. Government bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain conditions of business and on the pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism and on the amendment of Act No. 40/1964 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on trades and trades (business law), as amended, as amended /German press 276/ - third reading I ask that the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová and the rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee take the position at the rapporteur's table, which is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Martina Berdychová. I beg you, Madam Secretary, to begin with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on certain business conditions and on the pursuit of certain tourism activities. I would like to start by mentioning why this amendment. The amendment proposal is necessary for the following reasons. First, to avoid double legal interpretation of the provisions relating to compulsory insurance of a guarantee in the event of bankruptcy in order to obtain legal certainty for customers of travel agencies while ensuring that the requirements of the European Directive are met, so that the consumer has a guarantee of the refund of the transferred funds for the trip and for the return of the consumer in the event of the bankruptcy of the travel agency to the Czech Republic. Secondly, the extension of travel agency obligations to provide insurance companies with regular information on the management of travel agencies and, in particular, the setting of the correct level of the limit on insurance benefits. For further ensuring effective state control through the treatment of the lack of administrative offences of travel agencies and agencies so far. Last but not least, the reason for the amendment is to bring the law into line with the Civil Code and the Trade Law. I would like to emphasise once again that this is a partial amendment to the law, which reflects only the most up-to-date discussed provisions of this law. A more fundamental revision of the law will require the adoption of a new European directive on package travel services and related travel services. This Directive should be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in October of this year. Here I am just saying that this directive is not yet and does not exist in the Official Journal of the European Union, where the transposition period was set at 24 months after the entry into force of the Directive. This means that during 2017, the Ministry of Regional Development will prepare a new law. The Ministry is known that in recent years insurance companies have not paid full compensation to consumers. Based on the valid wording of the Act, taking into account its EuroConform interpretation, the Ministry took the view that their procedure did not comply with the law. In the context of non-payment of the full amount of compensation to damaged clients by insurance companies, I would point out one key point here, and that is the Constitutional Court's finding of 21 July this year. In its finding, the Constitutional Court confirmed that the passenger is entitled to the full reimbursement of the transferred funds regardless of the specified limit on the insurance benefits. This is a precedent where the Constitutional Court ruled in this way throughout the Czech Republic. The Constitutional Court did not find a breach of constitutional law by the court which ordered the insurance undertaking to pay the full compensation. The Constitutional Court confirmed the necessity of the use of euro conformity in the interpretation of Act No. 159/1999 Coll., i.e. the law I present here. Furthermore, I would like to comment here on some of the points discussed at the meeting of the Guarantee Committee, i.e. the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, which took place on 2 September 2015. From the point of view of the Ministry of Regional Development as the promoter of this amendment, we agree with Amendments A1 to A28. These are amendments contained in the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of 10. 6. 2015. And now to Amendment B1 to B22. These are the amendments contained in the Economic Committee Resolution of 3 June 2015. The amendments are essentially identical to those proposed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, with the exception of the amendment to the provisions of § 10a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b). This provision would allow immediate intervention by the Ministry of Regional Development towards the travel agency in legal cases without having to be called upon to remedy the travel agency. The Ministry is no longer pursuing this proposal. On Mrs Berdychová's amendment to the deliberative sentence. The Ministry of Regional Development does not support the deliberative provisions with regard to the Constitutional Court's finding, which I listed here a moment ago. On Mrs Fischerová's amendment, which consists in maintaining the valid wording of the provisions of Paragraph 8 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2. The MMR doesn't agree. Paragraph 8 (a) shall apply. 2 was the subject of two interpretations, which united the Constitutional Court's finding of this summer. In order to ensure legal certainty for all the entities concerned, clarity and clarity of law, the provisions should be clarified as proposed. Let me reiterate once again that the Ministry of Regional Development, as the petitioner for a government amendment, supports the amendments under the letter in the third reading of the Chamber of Deputies of our Parliament. A1 to A28 contained in the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Furthermore, I would like to comment on some of the points raised in the general debate at the meeting of the Guarantee Committee on 2 September 2015. I assume they will also be discussed here. I'm gonna try to get ahead of them. One of the discussed points of the debate was the view that an amendment to the law could lead to a reduction in the number of travel agencies on the market, up to 50 percent, and an increase in unemployment by about 1,500 people in the Czech Republic. Tourism employs around 231 thousand workers in the Czech Republic. The source is a satellite tourism account and accounts for 2,9% of our GDP in total. Number of active travel agencies, i.e. the travel agencies that have concluded an insurance contract in the event of the insolvency of the travel agency for the year 2014 was 960. There are other data, but these are data that are based, of course, on our statistics that we are doing. At present, this number is around 970. According to data maintained by the Ministry of Regional Development, it cannot be said that the number of applicants interested in carrying out the business of a travel agency has changed significantly over the last five years. Another issue at the debate was the re-statement of insurance companies that they could not take up unlimited risk in insurance of a travel agency against bankruptcy. During the whole consultation process, the Ministry of Regional Development was based on the satisfaction of insurance representatives in the sense that we have introduced adequate legal instruments for insurance companies in the amendment to this Act in order to enable travel agencies to set the right amount for insurance benefits, which will cover all legitimate claims of clients in the event of the bankruptcy of the travel agency. I would like to repeat here what I said at second reading that the State will not cover the risks of insurance companies' business. Travel agencies are required to inform insurance companies about their management and about changes in insurance risks. Even on the basis of the requirements of insurance companies, we have proposed to this amendment that travel agents inform their insurance company monthly about the number of passengers in the last month, the number of tours sold, the aggregate data for sales of total tours per travel agency, the amount, advances, the amount of sales. This was the requirement of insurance companies where the Ministry of Regional Development, e.g. I did. Based on this, the insurance company itself can tell itself what limit it puts in the contract with the travel agency. In addition, travel agents will be obliged to inform the insurance undertaking on a monthly basis of the relevant information. Of course, there's a business secret. That'll be between the travel agency and the insurance company. Even the MMR won't know anything about that. The fact that the correct amount of the premium requirement can be set also shows the available data in 2014 when four travel agencies went bankrupt. Year 2014 four travel agencies, no more. All their clients were fully compensated in their legitimate claims. This year, i.e., from January to today, three travel agencies are known to be bankrupt and insurance should not be reduced according to the preliminary statements of insurance companies. Let me conclude by asking for support when approving this amendment at third reading so that the protection of customers of travel agencies in the Czech Republic in the event of their bankruptcy is ensured as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u3	Thank you. The amendments are set out in the Parliament's Press 276/4, which was delivered on 9 July 2015. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 276/5. I am opening a debate in which I have the priority right of Mr Kalousek, but I do not see him here. He's coming. I was about to move you, but you made it. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u4	Thank you. I wouldn't be mad, I'm always being pushed. I'll be very brief. I will only justify the position of TOP 09 as to why we cannot vote in favour of this law. While we appreciate the effort to increase consumer protection, it must have a limit to be feasible. If the Ministry sets out the conditions for insurance which no insurance undertaking can accept, it is about the same as if Minister Jurečka pushed through the law that it is allowed to sow only if I have full insurance. Under such conditions, no one can assure me, and I have nothing left but to sow. Just as unrealistic is the bank guarantee described in the law, because no one will expose you to a bank guarantee for an unlimited amount of money. I am afraid that good efforts here have gone completely beyond the reality of the insurance and financial market business, and the result in my opinion can be nothing more than that travel agencies will either have to end their activities or move abroad and the consumer will be protected either equally or less. It'll do a lot more harm than good. We are fundamentally opposed to the adoption of this law, and we will vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with the de facto Mr Okamura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on what Mr Kalousek has said here through Madam President. You guys sometimes talk so heartfelt that maybe someone would believe you, but since I'm good at traveling, you've just said some pretty crazy stuff that you've been sucking out of your finger. I've currently had a survey conducted between 243 member travel agencies in our association to confirm whether or not the nonsense you just said is true. We have 100 member travel agencies for two employees, 86 who have 2 to 10 employees, and 16 who are the largest. Not one travel agency has any information or told us by itself that someone shouldn't insure her. Everything's going completely without a problem. Even insurance companies only ask us - there are about six insurance companies that insure travel agencies - whether the CK will continue to be willing, for example, to engage in contractual participation, it is not a problem, even new travel agencies are created, they are normally insured. That's why you're gonna stop showing us the insurance lobby. We know that you're naughty with insurance companies, but we have hard data from hundreds of travel agencies. Of course, I support the government proposal. I would like to emphasise that. I support the government's proposal, it's sophisticated, it's professionally correct, professionally correct. It's a political law. Let's not bring politics into this. I just wanted to react quickly with hard data, unlike some fantasy and some nonsense Mr. Kalousek is doing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u7	Thank you. Now, please, Mrs Fischerová, duly registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u8	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will follow Mr Okamura's words. I absolutely cannot share his opinion today. We have two associations of travel agencies in the Czech Republic. I know that everyone has a diametrically different legal opinion. And if Mr Okamura has not heard feedback from his travel agents that he is not afraid of it - etc., then I speak for the other association, which I think we all went through all the Members, sent her comments via e-mail, and there are completely different opinions. When I first conclude that it was said that we had the possibility of providing a bank guarantee, I was interested in where it worked. I know they have it in Slovakia, for example. When I was wondering how many times it was provided to travel agencies, not once, because it is even more complex and unlimited in the amount of insurance in money, so it really is not functional. What could be a remedy for the long-term proposal for this government law is the establishment of a guarantee fund. The whole time this law has been discussed here in working groups with all participants, whether they are insurance companies, travel agencies, of course, first of all, the Ministry, there has been talk of a guarantee fund. When I informed myself, I know the solution was offered, but suddenly it ended, I confess, I don't know where, which I'm very sorry, because, as we all say here, we're all interested in clients. That's really the point. An amendment to the proposal submitted was adopted to the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. It was also discussed by the Economic Committee. The more this is discussed, from my point of view, I am really sorry, because these are clients who would like to travel, but if this is accepted in the text that is presented, I think tomorrow it will start so-called tomorrow. I have verified information that 12 new travel agencies haven't received new insurance now. And if it goes according to this amendment, then the six insurance companies that we have on the market, I already know that she really won't be able to negotiate contractual insurance. I'm still gonna quote here to say exactly the right thing. I have tabled an amendment so as not to put an end to travel agencies, that they will move their insurance abroad, because the problem that is there will not be provided to insurance companies by a bank guarantee. We have huge travel agencies and we know that owners are often no longer Čech. This will turn out to be even more and more, and there will be more unemployment, as I perceive the result of this amendment. I have tabled an amendment which you will find under letter D today in the final vote. I'll just get back to it briefly at this third reading. I propose to leave it there in § 8 para. 2 only the version that you have in the Houses of the Press, which states that if my amendment is accepted, there will be no liability for the debts of a private legal entity in the insolvency of an insurance undertaking and a law which is intended to cover their debts by default. Here it really happens that suddenly some travel agency will be in insolvency, and therefore all coverage, if there is no limited limit, will take over really insurance with everything, but there may be accumulated debts from the past, fraud and so on. I just stress that nowhere in the European Union does this work. I still wanted this to be fixed. I would also like to quote from the letter that went from the President of the Association of Travel Agents that he actually wrote - I will not read everything, but at least I will poke some of it - that this will happen, this amendment, when it is presented, when it is approved, it will turn out to be like clients, to a smaller tax collection - not the Minister - but also employment. Clients are already sufficiently protected by Directive 314/90 of the European Economic Community as amended, as confirmed by the Constitutional Court. Moreover, in the course of two years, it will be necessary to revise the entire Act No. 159/199 Sb. in such a fundamental way that now, if we accept this, the whole legislation will be distraught. [[11.20 hours]] If this is accepted today at the third reading, we know that the Senate is still there, but if this is the way it should take effect, then if travel agencies do not have a chance to insure themselves, or to obtain insurance under bearable conditions, they will either have to put an end to their business or transfer their business abroad. That already works now. We know that many clients in the Czech Republic buy tours through foreign travel owners. Of course, not everyone is capable of this, because not everyone knows the language. I know they like to go to stone travelers who don't speak foreign languages. And then it'll be very complicated for anyone who wants to buy a tour. Example. I won't go far. Exactly in Germany, German travel agencies, who are massively selling their tours on the Czech market as well, I will not stress here which, in order not to give priority to some, but we know probably many of them, have just established insurance with the upper limit of performance. This is an argument for comparison that it really is not like that anywhere in the European Union. Again, I stress that all of this will lead to greater unemployment, job losses, and for Czech clients who will buy tours, that is another substantial reason for making tours more expensive. Whoever negotiates insurance will want to be sure and will not have on insolvency, which can be really very, very high, enough money, and therefore will go up the insurance prices or will be travel agencies uninsurable. I think that legislative consumer protection is currently also working. The Minister said that four travel agencies were bankrupt in 2014, which is not a big number compared to the other industries in our industry. Let's look at construction and other fields. But cases of infringement in this sense will not solve the law, but it will enforce its compliance. I got a call today from a big travel agency owner who's been working there since 1990. He pointed out to me at the last minute that there is still no compliance with the amendment to the Civil Code, namely § 2521 and the following paragraphs, that is why this amendment was originally tabled here. I also point out that because we know that the organizer is the one who is preparing. It is the nomenclature of European legislation, which should be in one plane and should be interlined. I have yet to mention this matter. And my view, as much as I express this really apolitically, was said not to put politics into it, I put in more of a matter of fact, particularity on the Czech market, and in particular I know that even for small travel agencies that already have a lot of administration, and on top of that monthly report, it will be such a burden that it will rather end and our market for travel products, packages of various tours can really move outside the Republic, or unemployment will increase. My view, overall, without support and my amendment, is therefore not to accept it, because it is not prepared after two years of work to produce positive results throughout the negotiations for consumer support and protection. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u9	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points. First I will ask Mrs Berdychová, Mr Kořenek will be prepared and then Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u10	Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, Members of the Government, fellow Members, colleagues, as I have already announced at the meeting of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, I withdraw my amendment, which is mentioned in press 276/4 under point C. This is because, after the second reading, where I tabled this amendment, the Constitutional Court confirmed on 21 July that the passenger is entitled to full reimbursement of the funds and repatriation, regardless of the limit on insurance benefits. My amendment just contained deliberative provisions. As a result of the Constitutional Court's finding, the deliberative provision is incompatible with European Union law and consumer protection law, so I am withdrawing the amendment. I would still respond to my colleague Jana Fischerová. I have a completely opposite opinion than she did. I would also point out that this amendment has been discussed since the autumn of last year by a subcommittee on tourism. We invited both travel agency associations to the subcommittee. Until the last day of the negotiations, these associations had the same view and supported this amendment. Up to 14 days before the second reading, the association of insurance companies and the Association of travel agencies of the Czech Republic began to call on us that they did not agree with this amendment, so we did not even have a chance to discuss it back. Except at the meeting of the guarantee committee, this question was reopened. My opinion is that the amendment is needed at the moment, because it clearly interprets the provisions of Section 8 para. 2 which, in the current version of the Act, has a double interpretation and has led to litigation. On the contrary, the amendment gives travel agencies greater information duty to the Ministry -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u11	Madam, I'm sorry, your time is up. You've been logged in for real. I merely remind you that if you withdraw your amendment, it is necessary to agree with the House because we are at third reading. You're the rapporteur, so I'm gonna ask you to keep an eye on this and make a motion afterwards. Thank you. I am now begging Mr Kořenko to take action. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u12	Thank you. Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I am based on the 1997 decision of the EU Court of Justice of 1214 and the decision of the Constitutional Court. In fact, the conditions for fulfilling the issue are quite clearly set here. I'm gonna stop by the word no-limit. I don't think there's any reason for insurance companies not to insure because it doesn't mean endless. An inquiry has been made to the subcommittee and to the committee. Every travel agency may know the volume of tours sold, sales. Of course, it's probably harder on the administration. Already today, the provision of travel agencies is one of the highest in Europe and amounts to 30 percent. Personally, I am very skeptical of any lobbyists who come and explain. Everyone's right, but no one's gonna say how it really is. So, from this point of view, what has been negotiated in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, I think that the compromise that has been agreed is necessary, and I do not see any significant risks in this, so I recommend supporting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u13	I thank you and ask Mr Filip in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u14	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, Members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, I have a factual point which concerns precisely the comparison of the current text of the new Civil Code. You know that I have never supported the new text of the Civil Code, but it is a valid standard and we must follow it. When I compared the current text of the law according to the press 276 and the Constitutional Court's finding, I am a little concerned that we are getting into conflict between the general regulation in Sections 2521 to 2549 of the Civil Code with the text of the law in the field of tourism. [[11.30 hours]] In this respect, therefore, I would like to know how the Minister will respond to this and, according to its reply, I will perhaps propose a return to second reading, because I would not like the Chamber of Deputies to leave a standard which would be contrary to another legislation. I don't think we're supposed to entrust it to the Senate. I think that the standard is to leave us in perfect order, and let another political opinion in the second chamber be her opinion, but not that it will correct the possible error and contradiction between two laws on the same legal force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u15	I thank you, and now, please, to the microphone duly registered by Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u16	So, ladies and gentlemen, let me put this in a little more detail. I think we need to start by telling ourselves why we were doing the novel. Well, if I take it around and around, if the law is completely rejected, then it's the House's political responsibility here, but the goal was consumer protection. After all, what we did was that there were hundreds, in some cases thousands of unfortunate travel agency clients, who saved their whole year for vacation, and then didn't get their money back in case of those several crashes, two or three bust travel agencies out of a thousand a year. So I wanted to point out why this has actually been worked on for years, because politicians have been under criticism, I have not yet been in parliament at the time, and this law has been worked on for many years. So let's not forget why we did it here. And there wasn't really any other reason. The reason is neither insurance nor business nor anything else, only and only consumer protection. The second thing is, which we must also stress, the judgments of the Constitutional Court. We have three judgments of the European Court of Justice from 16. 1. 2014, 15. 1. 1997, 16. 2. 2012, where the European Court of Justice clearly states that the client should receive the full amount in the event of the crash of the travel agency, and even for example. in the judgment of the European Union of 16. 1. In Case C-430/13, it is the responsibility of the Member State to ensure this. This means, in fact, that amendment by Mrs Fischerová and what started to be discussed here at once, so basically there is no other option on the basis of these judgments, and here we have the judgment of the Czech Constitutional Court of June of this year, which is a relatively well-known case where one of the clients of the Czech travel agency has just claimed 100% compensation, and we have a clear verdict from the Constitutional Court that it must be fulfilled in full. That means, actually, the proposal that we've been trying all along, the coalition or the opposition, it doesn't matter, it's a technical proposal, actually, to put it here, is to bring it into line, the consumer protection. Then I must certainly be very truthful, and this is not often happening to me here, true, both to Mr Kořenka from the ČSSD and to Mrs Berdychová from the YES movement, because I completely agree with them. Both are absolutely right, both the CSSD and the YES movement, as far as the proposal is concerned. They're right, they're right. And Mrs Berdychová was right when she said: Yes, we are here two large associations of travel agencies. And it is true that both of us participated in all the meetings on the subcommittee, and neither did the other association ever say anything. They've agreed to everything. So how come he's here all of a sudden, that's why I was talking about the insurance lobby where some letters start to come out here a few days before the law starts, and all of a sudden there's a change of heart. I don't think so. We had it on the subcommittee x-times and elsewhere and no one had any comments about this bill, everything went in accordance with the Ministry, with Minister Šlechtová, with Mrs Berdychová and with other members of the subcommittee, who are there through and through the political spectrum. Even in this regard, Jana did not object, in fact, to anything, through the President Mrs Fischerová, at which point she did not object to anything that there should be a problem. Otherwise, I wanted to say that, of course, the amendment to the law clearly, and this is a priority, promotes higher consumer protection. Plus, and I repeat that again, I've told you before that it tightens the conditions for travel agencies for their business. These are the reports that not once every three months, but once a month, there are high sanctions, high penalties for violations that have never been done before, so we as a travel agent, when I speak for our association, where I am still in charge, in the framework of consumer protection for huge compromises, when there are huge sanctions, much more numerous statements. I'm just reminding you that an insurance company can climb in any day now, literally crawl into the travel agency's accounts. Anytime. Not just the reports. That should be frankly said here. So she can just check the books herself, so she's not dependent on the travel agency's statements. And insurance companies can assess the insurance limit on the basis of this new law based on economic analysis and also on the development of travel agencies. That's the regularity of them looking into it. Otherwise, there is no error in legislative procedures. I have to say no. Once again, I agree with both the Minister and the representative of the YES movement Mrs Berdychová and Mr Kořenek from the ČSSD. Our legislation allows insurance companies to calculate the insurance limit up to the amount of e.g. 100% sales, dear friends. So I don't understand the arguments at all. After all, the legislation allows insurance companies to calculate an insurance limit of up to 100 percent of their sales, so now I don't really know what the ODS is saying here or Mr Kalousek, when the options are here. This is probably information for less informed Members of Parliament who are not expertly familiar with tourism. I didn't even want to talk that long, but I think it's time to justify it. Otherwise, as the argument was made by a letter from the second association. Well, then I am glad that certain things have fallen here, because it only indicates the amateurism of the other association, because you said that consumers are protected by Directive 314/1990, but are not protected by this directive, but by its transposition into Law 159. So there's also bad technical wording in the law of the second association. And here it goes again. We are not protected by this directive, but by its transposition, but also by the transposition of this directive into Law 159/1999. So, since we're arguing some letters, I'm asking you all to use the exact technical terminology. That's all I'm saying, and I think it's clear from the start that the letter was, some letter that was sent here. [[Nesroz.]] The interesting thing is that the letter was sent to everyone but me, which proves, I must say, I really think it's very significant. Everyone but me has been sent this letter that lobbies for insurance companies. [[He's showing a letter.]] I guess I shouldn't be able to get to know it. And I got it yesterday from Mr. Kořenko of the ČSSD. If I know about him. I said, "I don't know. So you can see the way behind your back, the way things are going here, it just proves the whole thing. Again, I stress that consumer protection must come first. Otherwise, here I was just pointing out that consumer protection is the reason, because in recent years some insurance companies have started to behave differently than before, and consumers in the decline of the CK, which, as the Minister has rightly pointed out here, from the thousands of travel circuses there may be three bankruptcies, three four bankruptcies a year, so that we do not say that they are dozens of travel agencies or hundreds, that is not making it easy, but because people just didn't get the funds back. That's why we're here. And we're not here for insurance. It's business for them, and they, as experts, can calculate their insurance risk, it's normal business and it's a business risk. I don't see any problem at all. We're all in business at that risk. We have absolutely no indication of this, and I have already said in my point of fact that insurance companies would communicate in writing to travel agencies that, if the amendment is not approved, they will not insure them. Then I'd like to see who put it in writing to someone from the insurance company. That's just some talk. We don't have a single written suggestion. So we'd like someone to be haunted, so that they put it on paper in black and white, because of the six insurance companies, we don't have it from either of our 243 member travel agencies. So now I don't understand the argument. Respectfully, I understand because it's not true or it's just verbally. There. Otherwise, the draft amendment, which is excellent, gives travel agencies the possibility of bank guarantee under the Slovak law. That is the written sentence of the Slovak law and it is only the opening of the door. [[11.40 hours]] We agreed in the Ministry, in the Ministry, which has a government coalition, and again, here is the expert debate, which should be another expert debate on other laws. However, that's the way the Ministry is working on it right now. It's just an open door so there's more space. And now it's being worked out to work out exactly according to the models of the most advanced Western European countries. So it's the way the Slovák started. That's where it works. In some way, I think they have two big travel agencies or one. Then, from this point of view, of course, it is important that the monopoly of insurance companies in this business disappears, because here I would like to point out that we are only one of the three countries of the European Union, which has only one form of providing travel agencies. To keep track of the other two, it's Romania and Bulgaria. So I would hate for someone to throw us back east between Romania and Bulgaria, which together with the Czech Republic are the only three countries in the European Union that have - in fact, insurance companies have a monopoly to provide travel agencies. I don't want to be like Romania and Bulgaria with maturity. That's what I'm saying in advance, and you can blame me all you want. I want to be like Western Europe. And in all Western European countries and Central European countries, more forms of security are enshrined in the law than one. Once again, one form of collateral, which means a monopoly on insurance companies, has only three countries of the European Union. It is Romania, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic. I don't believe it. Let's move really west. And once again, I support the coalition proposal, I support this government's proposal. Then I would like to say that the amendment also introduces increased information from the point of view of clients, because we often encountered it, even you as clients of us, travel agencies, that when you bought tours at travel agencies, you didn't know what kind of travel agency really organizes the tour. Here in this novel is also this important information that the clients will get to know the Internet as soon as possible, which the travel agency is really doing the tour because the travel agency is just a salesman. So watch out. And we'd like to make it possible for our clients. First minutes are already starting to sell, first-minute tours are now in November, December. So now we are really ahead of the decision and we are actually selling two million tours a year in the Czech Republic, if for the next season, and now is the time, because if we postpone it, then the time will of course not be that time anymore, so if we allow two million consumers to protect consumers and have good information in accordance with the applicable legislation. That's what I wanted to point out. So if this place is basically above any of these things in any way, I'm sorry I've been talking so long, but the arguments have fallen, so I wanted to respond. That's why I volunteered after Jana Fischerová so that I could respond so much to what will be said here. And a complete conclusion. Basically, insurance companies are all they've told us, not that they won't insure, but they're finding out from us whether or not travel agencies will be willing to continue to make a contractual contribution equal to what they've been doing. Yes, that's no problem. That's not a problem at all. And it doesn't matter whether it's in the law or not, because it's a contractual relationship. Otherwise, I say again that the amendment tabled here by Mrs Jana Fischerová is in direct conflict with the Constitutional Court's finding and with the proposal for a new tour directive, where the fact that the consumer must receive all the funds in the event of bankruptcy is clearly stated. And now that we're scaring some insurance companies away from insuranceing travel agencies, they're not going to insure the unsteady ones, or the ones that have poor management. Well, that's understandable. But then we must discuss the reasons why some travel agents will not be insured. You guys are fucking with the insurance company... And it's normal that an insurance company doesn't insure any offices. I mean, insurance companies, if someone's sick and they want travel insurance, or they have some really reasonable suspicion that there's gonna be an insurance event abroad, they're not gonna insure the client either. I mean, insurance companies don't have an obligation to insure. Yes, even today, it happens on the basis of the existing law that insurance companies will not insure a travel agency. It will be for the future. Because insurance companies will assess under applicable laws that the travel agency's economy is bad and it's so risky that it won't be insured. But that's not an argument. That's quite all right, and once again it's going to the consumer protection. Again, I would like to stress that new travel agencies are being created and insured. They're becoming our new members. And of course, some of them are not insured, because if the insurance company isn't sure that the entity will tighten it economically, it won't be insured. But I don't see anything wrong with that. It's a normal run, isn't it? And the result is consumer protection. Thank you and I say again that you certainly can't expect me to just support a government coalition here, but here, of course, I have to say that this bill is good, it's right. And I fully support the government coalition's proposal. And I think it would be a good idea to get through this, given the timing when we're already starting to sell tours, so that our clients have really 100% protection here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u17	Thank you. I note Mrs Fischerová's factual remark. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u18	Thank you again for the floor. I will be different - through here, Madam President looking at Tomio Okamura, I will just say briefly: there has been a lot, there has been enough. I'm just gonna say one thing, I'm gonna react. Consumer protection. As it happens, if travel agencies are now insured, they have their catalogues planned a long time in advance and it will fall even after the Senate passes this law on them, it will fall on them, and the insurance companies will no longer insure the travel agency. And according to the law, only one who is insured can sell tours to the travel agency. How will this be dealt with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u19	Thank you. Now, with Mr Urban in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u20	Thank you. I listen to this quite carefully, although it is not an issue that I have dealt with in the long term. It only gives me one impression that neither of the associations that are arguing over microphones here, really, but it's really not about the consumer, the customer, but about some kind of power strengthening under this law. I'd like to ask you to keep it in your laps or some association meetings, and let's take a vote. And since I have the floor, I certainly wouldn't support the views of either association, but I would support the government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u21	Thank you. And please to Mr. Bendl's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u22	Thank you for the floor. Only to the margo of his previous speaker first. The government proposal is the work of one of the incoming agencies of carts to the Czech Republic of foreigners, which will not be affected by the increase of insurance premiums. [[with laughter]] I expected my colleague Okamura here to say that he's in a conflict of interest, but his isn't really about raising insurance premiums, so it's like he's not in a conflict of interest. I think that the government's proposal, in cooperation with Tomio Okamura, serves to make tourism difficult - this is how I read it - just before the European Union lays down uniform rules for all travel agencies - and we have cleaned up what we can so that those who remain on the market can have more space. I am sorry that something like this is happening under the guise of a government proposal, because from the debate and from what Mr Tomio Okamura said here, I understand that when he really says here, "We were working on it at the Ministry, etc." How come nobody told me? When we're... These are the official materials which, through Mr President, I say to Mr Urban, have been officially discussed in the proceedings of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. There we discussed with everyone - both representatives of insurance companies and representatives of the association. And nothing was classified. Everything was open and everyone could have been part of the debate. And there were a number of arguments that confirm what was said here by my previous speakers, and I will not name them all here - that, in essence, by the organisational measures, by the pressure to increase insurance, we are making the competitiveness of travel agencies based in the Czech Republic more attractive to the functioning of travel agencies abroad. [[11.50 hours]] I officially asked at the committee's meeting if any of the colleagues who advocated this do not have shares in travel agencies in Austria or Germany somewhere, because then I would probably consider it logical that they are trying to lubricate the stairs here to Czech travel agencies. Because the conditions we put there are simply more demanding, and more financially demanding than the normal conditions in our surroundings, the German, Austrian especially. You've heard about Slovakia here that it doesn't work very well. Madam Secretary knows that. I would very much like the government not to be subject to this socialist attempt to bring order to the market and to meet individual lobbyists. And this is a lobbyist proposal. This is called a government amendment, but it is a lobbyist proposal that sort and protects certain travel agencies, possibly insurance companies, and leads to an improvement in the position within the negotiation of private contracts. Because it's the private banking sector and private travel agencies. This is the number of times the state has tried to enter between suppliers and customers. There's a fog in this - we're after the clients! Yes, we probably want our clients to travel with Austrian or German travel agencies. I guess so! Well, call it the right names, because what you give to travel agencies says you're making traveling more expensive for our people. It's not about incoming agencies, that's what shocked me. Tomio Okamura certainly applauds that we want to make things worse for travel agents who are involved in incoming and I will say negotiation, outsourcing. Well, he must be excited, and you're gonna be applauding him. Okay, well, at least you know that, so I'm telling you. This was discussed very openly at the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and it was neither secretive nor secretive. I will try not to overcomplicate myself, to read some specific comments that fell from the Association of Travel Agencies of the Czech Republic, which is one of the oldest and largest business professional associations of this type in the Czech Republic. For example: The amendment to the Act contains a requirement for performance by the entity providing the guarantee not only at the level of the statutory limit, but in the event of greater damage even above that amount. [[reads from the background]] Insurance companies still providing insurance for travel agencies in the event of bankruptcy with a limit under the law already insured by the travel agency shall inform in writing that under such conditions they will not be able to insure and that the contracts will be terminated. The Board of the Association of Travel Agencies of the Czech Republic is deeply convinced that this is a serious intention. I'm trying to start sorting inside the market. -And I could quote more and more concrete things here that will lead to a government proposal, I will say in the coalition with Tomio Okamura, and the MP is proud to report to this, which is probably okay, I thank him for that, he wants to make the conditions for the functioning of travel agencies in the Czech Republic worse before the European Union sets uniform rules for everyone. We can't raise our hand for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u23	Thank you, Ambassador, and please to the microphone with Mr Okamura in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u24	Hello. I did not understand Mr Bendl at all because he messed up the place. I'm not in any conflict of interest because I'm in the incoming business and not in the outs... that's where the words "outcoming" fell. Outcoming doesn't exist, maybe, I don't know what you're doing, but with us, it's outgoing, so I just want to say that you've already messed up professional concepts that no one in the travel industry understands or ever heard. So if this is an argument to the law, then I'm completely appalled. Nor does the basic concepts of travel tourism and the arrival Member know, so I didn't understand him at all. I had to think about what he was talking about. I mainly do incoming, arrival of foreign tourists. And that's not legally insured. It's a travel agency. So it doesn't concern me, just for your information. So I'm not lobbying for myself or lobbying against me. I am in charge of the professional union and, of course, I specialize in tourism. The second thing I wanted to say here is that if I take it around and around, and I say this really stupid thing right now, if I look at it just selfishly business and business, travel agencies are comfortable with the current situation without a problem. And there's no need to accept any amendment. If it's a selfish approach that doesn't matter about consumer protection, it's enough, this law doesn't have to be here at all, and we're not lobbying for anything, so don't push it around at all. The current situation is that the client is hard to reach in court until the Constitutional Court, as we saw this year, if he gets 100% compensation, the travel agency does business, sells tours, and it's only up to whether the travel agent is solid or not and whether the client has the strength to sue. So don't give me any more unprofessional fantasies about somebody lobbying for something. If it were merely the view of selfish entrepreneurs, the current state of affairs would be perfectly fine. But since we've been trying to protect the consumer, this is what we've been working on. [[Timeout alert]] So it's only a short time to explain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u25	Thank you, and now with Mr Filip in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, because I have other responsibilities, it's just a point of fact. My point is, when we talk about travel insurance, I have no doubt in my mind that the proposal is correct. Basically, my point is that we don't let go of what's threatening the consumer. And that's a travel agency. Because take it that I'm only looking at it from the point of view of law. That means I'm gonna make a contract with someone who's acting on behalf of someone else on the basis of a contract. But if the secretary here was talking about 900 or exactly how many uninsured offices there are, let's look at those agencies that can bring our citizen into a situation that we haven't mastered. That is why I am concerned with the contradiction between the Civil Code, between the law and the Constitutional Court finding. That is why I wanted to explain this, and if there is no explanation, I propose that we return the law to second reading, i.e. committees to renegotiate, which is the only option at third reading, one of the options for voting. If it fails, I will, of course, follow the outcome of the negotiations on individual amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u27	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone duly registered by Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u28	So before I get to what I originally volunteered for, what we just saw and heard from Mr. Tomio Okamura, that's coming out, isn't it? It's none of my business, but I suggest you tighten it up for the others, because that's how we set it up. And we often say that this government complicates the lives of entrepreneurs, and many colleagues are angry that this is not true. So here's a clear example where the government is trying to complicate businessmen, in this case tourism, the situation. The government proposes that travel agencies have some obligations that they do not have to perform with the state, but with another private entity. And what does a travel agency do if the insurance company doesn't cover it? It's over! According to this proposal. So this is not an obligation to the state that the one who wants to do business should comply with, but with another private entity. [[12.00 hours]] And the secretary says, "Well, that's great. At the same time, we are giving the law what one private entity is supposed to send to another private entity once a month. In addition to sending it to the Ministry, so that ministerial officials know which travel agencies sell tours, and the more they sell, so maybe they have better prices to navigate, because they are certainly busy preparing many important laws and do not have time to study individual travel agency offers. Well, that's an example. I was performing at first, second, and last time today at third reading. Now I will overlook the contradiction that Vice-President Filip spoke of. I think the proposal is reasonable. The bill has been here since July 2014, we are in September 2015, so renegotiating the committee will certainly take it from the point of view of time. Here, the government and the Minister are a little contradicted - it is very important to accept - and at the same time, in their opening words today, they said - but the problem is so big that insurance companies point to, after all, only four travel agencies went bankrupt last year. So either the problem is big or the problem is marginal. It cannot be both that we must present this as a big problem, but at the same time be calm, for there were actually only four travel agents in decline. I have a specific question for the Minister. If it passes, the law will not only be valid but also effective - will the same price of insurance remain, or will the Ministry estimate that the price of insurance will increase? And if the insurance price goes up, and I hear expert estimates that it's going to be between 180 and 250 percent, who's going to pay it? The consumers or the travel agencies? Let's guess if tours get expensive thanks to more expensive insurance, or at the expense of profit. So I'd like to hear a qualified estimate from the secretary. It is, of course, only an estimate, I understand, whether the adoption of this amendment will increase the cost of insurance for travel agencies, and thus logically increase the price of tours for clients and consumers, which are so happy to be spoken of by those who advocate this bill. And I found such a logical error in Mr Okamura's speech. He says - I don't want to be in Romania and Bulgaria, I want to be in Germany. [[Ambassador Okamura says he didn't say.]] To the west. [[Once again, Mr Okamura disagrees.]] I didn't. It's just west, but it doesn't suit him. But I think it's from the Czech Republic west. And when Mrs Jana Fischerová here said that there is no limit to compliance in Germany, it suddenly does not apply that we want to be in the west. This is the typical method, it's used by the government, for example, in the law on significant market power - it's going to extract something from each law from the surrounding states, it's going to say that this is there, this is going to take the worst conditions there, and it's going to put it together and it's going to call it the promotion of tourism in the Czech Republic. So the second question to the Minister: what's her qualified estimate when the law starts to apply how many travel agencies end up. I'd be interested in percentages, not units. Percent - no one, one percent, ten percent, twenty percent. And in a year or two, we can tell each other when the law is passed, what were the real consequences. Today, these are estimates of those who push for it, and of us who draw attention to the risks, and we think that this is not a good thing. So nothing else. And we estimate that it will be dozens of travel agencies who will not receive insurance and therefore will not be able to do business in this area thanks to the state. And it'll be applauded by those who don't need insurance. 'Cause that's a good point for the other guys -- they're the ones who don't behave, they need to have insurance. And tighten the terms. And not once a month, preferably once a week, so that the state can quickly intervene etc. But it doesn't concern us because we're the good guys, and the other guys are the ugly guys. I'm joining the bill to return the law to second reading, not for the reasons I'm talking about right now, because we're talking about it repeatedly. Apparently, the Minister and the Ministry have a different opinion, that's legitimate. If a government majority accepts it, it's also legitimate. You just can't say you didn't know about it and that these are some consequences of what you didn't expect. So I would ask the Minister whether in the debate, if she considers it appropriate or in the final word, whether to estimate whether the adoption of this amendment will have an impact on the price of insurance and, therefore, on the price of tours and whether it will affect the number of travel agencies they are doing, Czech travel agencies or Czech tax entities, to be precise, which they are doing in the field of tourism, or in her opinion that they are not. And I say, in those 12, 18 or 24 months, we can look into the statistics and see whose opinion is close to truth and reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u29	Thank you to the chairman of the ODS Club. Allow me before I continue, I have two factual points here, to read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. My colleague Milan Šarapatka apologizes from 11.30 to 14.30 and Mr Bohuslav Chalupa from 12.30 to 14.00 due to a doctor's visit. We will continue with factual remarks - a factual remark by Mr Václav Horáček and then by Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has spoken several times here. Mr. Okamura here said he didn't get any written interpelations from the insurance companies. I must say that the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development - and no colleague who was there - could deny it - were representatives of insurance companies, were representatives of the Czech Banking Association. And both representatives said that if this law were to be this way, they would have to give up the product. And that's a signal that's dangerous. Then it follows exactly what my colleague Bendl said here with travel agencies and foreign travel agencies. Now, I'd like to point out that I haven't received any letter or e-mail, either, so I'm in the same bag with Mr. Okamura, so I don't have any interests. Oh, please, this is a signal that was supposed to be evaluated by the Ministry, and it was supposed to be something that was supposed to happen. And we're actually told that everything's okay here, so both insurance representatives and bank representatives said no, but we're gonna say yes because we're not really interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u31	I thank Mr Václav Horáček and now Mr Tomio Okamura, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u32	Hello. So I can finally see on this professional subject how the ODS can really mess with the facts. First of all, I didn't say I got a letter from the insurance company, but from the second association. So don't lie here again, and please don't twist it. I can't believe this is happening anymore. The second thing is that you, Mr Stanjur, through Madam President, should take a little look into that law. [[Mr President, right]] The key thing about travel agencies, by the way, is that there was a two percent deposit that they had to make up last year's sales. So it's a big relief for all travel agencies that a whole year's travel agency with a hundred million turnover doesn't have to have two million on its insurance account. It was in exchange for giving out more regular reports. So, on the contrary, it's a huge relief to cash flow travel agencies. You're the one who's keeping your mouth shut, and I'm sure you know how I know you. So in exchange for giving a report once a month instead of three months, but you don't have to have - average travel, even smaller, has a hundred million turnover per year - and you don't have to deposit $2 million to someone in your account, so all the travel agencies were happy about it. So this is just to say that, on the contrary, it facilitates a lot of business and, at the same time, it protects consumers. Next - non-limitation performance. Please, let's stop operating on the term "no-limite." It's not like it's non-limity. It's kind of a populist name. It is the fulfilment of all legitimate claims of the client. And that is in all the western countries that they follow those judgments of the European Court of Justice. So let's not say no-limite as infinity. No. This is the fulfilment that it has to meet all the legitimate claims of the client. So let's not talk about other terms again. And that's what we all want, isn't it? And it's perfectly normal. Come in. I have travel agency insurance, by the way, since we're going into detail. Because sometimes one of my friends lets me arrange a trip somewhere... From my friends in the order of the troops, so I'm paying the basic insurance at the lowest rate. So it's not true that it doesn't really concern me. That's just for the record, 'cause the arguments are really, I gotta say, weird. [[- Mr. Colleague...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u33	Mr. Colleague, time has passed for a point of fact. A colleague, Petr Bendl, also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u34	Thank you. I'm just here for the tape. Now, Mr Tomio Okamura, through the President, has confirmed that he is in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. By doing so, we have exhausted our applications for the debate at third reading. I'm asking if the secretary wants to comment. With the final word. I still see Mr. Marek Černoch from the scene. That I didn't end the debate! I'm sorry. [[With a smile.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u36	I'm very sorry, and I would ask because there's been a lot of information here about a ten-minute break for the MP's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u37	Okay, I'll oblige. It's 12:09. At 12.20, we will continue with the final words of the Minister and the rapporteur. I am terminating the debate before the opening of a break at the Dawn Club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the negotiations. And since I have ended the debate, I am asking for final words. Madam Secretary wants to make a final statement, please. [[Big noise in the boardroom.]] I'm gonna ask the MPs for some peace. My colleague, gentlemen, the recess for the club meeting is over. Calm down, please. The Minister for Regional Development has the floor at the end of the third reading debate. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to some of the things that have been said here and also to the attack on the Ministry of Regional Development. And I want to make a strong statement that this novel was prepared by someone other than our resort. The Ministry of Regional Development has an expert group to prepare this amendment and at the same time there is a College of Minister for Regional Development. All associations, Czech associations of insurance companies, regions, resorts, municipalities, Union of cities and municipalities and others are included. So they were all involved in the preparation of this law, not some two associations and insurance companies. We have made it possible for everyone to comply with the Union directive and with a view to protecting consumers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u40	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry to interrupt. I am really asking the House for peace, or I will adjourn the meeting! I believe it is important that you hear the final word. And who will discuss something else, please in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u41	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u43	On certain matters that have been mentioned here. [[He's talking very strongly.]] The Ministry of Regional Development received seven new concession applications during September - only during September - I think we all know that we are issuing concessions - and they are all insured! Insurance companies don't pay all their debts, and insurance companies don't vouch for contracted hotels and airplanes. They're only responsible for the tours sold. That didn't happen here. The amendment doesn't go beyond the guidelines. This was demanded by all professional associations, both associations and čapka and others. I would like to mention here the example of Germany. In Germany, for example, they have an upper limit on the largest travel agency, but they have limited backups. We suggested this, but it was rejected by travel agencies. It is still necessary to mention the question that fell here about our estimate, or more specifically I was asked to estimate the price increase, or the number of possibly failed travel agencies. I would like to say here that I cannot fully respond to this because we do not know the business policy of insurance companies, that is, there is no data to make any expert estimate of this at all. However, I would like to mention this: this amendment proposes to protect consumers, people who go on vacation, so that people who may get hurt are returned to the Czech Republic and that it is fully paid, on the basis of a travel agency and insurance contract, of course. I would also like to mention here that I am very surprised by all the letters you are talking about that they have flown here, because I, as a translator, do not have them. So here I only respond to what has been prepared. I do not know why some of the things that have fallen have not been discussed in the committees or have not fallen in the first or second reading. So we are at the third reading and, of course, for the Ministry of Regional Development, I ask the House to refer this bill to the third reading. I would also like to comment on the information on the non-compliance with the Civil Code. Here I must say that, in our opinion, there is no significant discrepancy and this law has been processed in accordance with the Ministry of Justice. That's all from my final word, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u44	Thank you, Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová. I'm asking if the rapporteur is interested in the final word? He doesn't. We will therefore decide according to the Rules of Procedure Act. I ask the rapporteur to summarize the debate at third reading and to propose a voting procedure on the amendments and to give us an opinion before the vote. Madam rapporteur, if I have the right remarks because I have not been in charge of the entire negotiation, the proposal to repeat the second reading in accordance with Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure is a proposal for a second reading. 2 which must be voted first, then will be voted on to withdraw your amendment and then we would vote on individual amendments, okay? [[Yes.]] Okay. There's a checkout request. I'll sign you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u45	First, we will vote on the proposal to return to second reading. My opinion is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u46	The number of those present has settled, those I have asked to conduct discussions outside the O.R. have returned. Initiating serial number 49 vote, I ask who is in favour of repeating second reading. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 49, from the present 162 for 65, against 81. The motion was not accepted. So we will continue, with the consent of the House, with the withdrawal of the rapporteur's amendment, yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u47	Yes, it's my suggestion. So I agree to withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u48	Okay. I've started voting number 50, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 50, 170 for 169, against no one. The House has agreed to withdraw your amendment. I'd like another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u49	I would now like to introduce you to the voting procedure, as approved by the guarantee committee. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development recommends, at its 27th meeting as a guarantee committee after discussion of the Chamber of Press 276 after second reading, The Chamber of Deputies shall vote in the third reading on the draft bill, in the following order: 1. Proposals for technical adaptations pursuant to § 95 para. The Rules of Procedure, presented at the third reading, shall be read. 2. Proposal C, if adopted, shall be unvoting, unless adopted, to vote in motion D. 3. Proposals A1 to A28 jointly by one vote. When approving proposal C or D, point 14, vote either as amended by C or D. If proposals A are accepted, proposals B1 to B22 are unvoted. If proposals A are not adopted, vote B1 to B22 when approving proposal C or D paragraph 11, vote either as amended by C or D. And last to vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u50	Okay. Does anyone have any comments, an amendment to the vote? Nobody recorded legit technical modifications at third reading, if I understand correctly, so we can skip this. So let's start with point c ano?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u51	Since point C has been withdrawn, we will vote on point D as Mrs Fischerová's amendment. My position is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u52	I'm gonna ask if we're gonna hear opinions, if you want to vote on the procedure, or is it obvious to everyone? Better vote, okay. Initiating vote 51 and asking who is in favour of the proposed voting procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 51. 173 for 171 present, against no one. The procedure is approved. So a proposal under letter D. Please give an opinion. [[Reporter: Negative.]] Madam Secretary? [[Negative.]] Okay. Initiating vote 52 and asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 52. Of the 173 present for 41, versus 84. The motion was not accepted. We can therefore vote on points . prosit, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u53	Now, points A1 up to A28 are points of the resolution of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. My position is consistent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u54	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I have begun the vote on order number 53. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 53. 173 for 131 Members present, versus 37. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u55	Since we have accepted points A, points B are unvoted and we will now vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u56	Okay, in that case, I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain conditions in the business and pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism and on the amendment of Act No. 40/1964 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business entrepreneurship, as amended, as amended, pursuant to House Press 276, as amended." [[Trade law]] I've started voting number 54 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 54. Of the present 173 for 125, against 37. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you, Madam Secretary, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 155. Let me just do one more organizational thing. Mrs Kailová votes with a replacement card number 20. Please, Michal Kučera or Madam Member? Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u57	I'm so sorry. I'm not questioning the vote, but I wanted to vote against it, and I accidentally pressed yes. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u58	So for the tape screen, Madame. Mr Kučera also for the tapestry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u59	I do not similarly question the vote. I wanted to vote against it, I voted in favour. Once again - I voted in favour, I wanted to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u60	Yeah, okay. Another colleague from TOP 09, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u61	Colleagues, colleagues, I am very sorry, but I must join the two who spoke before me. I'm one of those guys he was wrong about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-004-155.u62	Okay. So, Mr Korte, Mrs Pecková and Mr Kučera will have a corrected vote against the electronic record on the screen. I think that the voting points will be rather short, so I will begin with paragraph 157 and invite the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and Mr Miroslav Opálka as rapporteur on the point
