ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse /house print 444/ - first reading I ask that the Prime Minister and the rapporteur take the position at the rapporteur's table for first reading, which is Mr Ladislav Velebný. This item was interrupted in the general debate, when the Minister of Agriculture did not get the floor on a factual point. I will ask the Minister of Agriculture if he insists on his factual comment he made in the previous hearing. It's not like that. So I will give the floor to Mrs Věra Kovářová, who is duly enrolled in the debate. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the topic which I opened at the May meeting, which is the absence of supplier regulation. Again, I would like to ask the question to which I was not given the answer, which the Minister for the Exemption of Suppliers proposed at the Government's meeting despite the opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition. The speaker is the Prime Minister, and I therefore ask the Prime Minister to reply directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u3	Thank you. Another proper application by Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I might say a few words about the bill's bill. I confess that after the last heated debate by the defenders of this law, I considered whether to speak at all, but it didn't work for me. I have to say it. It's a special law, and I generally don't like special laws, because I think we should have laws, I would say, general, not special. So this law is special. Moreover, it was here that we were going to get dictated by the European Union, by my colleague Okamura. Of course, this law is not imposed on the European Union. It's our voluntary will. As far as I know, comparable regulation exists at the moment in two countries of the European Union, it is Hungary and Slovakia. I have to say, it doesn't work too well there. I consider this to be social engineering and market intervention, which I do not think can please. If we interfere like this, the market's gonna bulge somewhere, and it's just gonna turn out somewhere else. Maybe a few figures why I got off. When I look at the Czech Republic, unlike the UK, which has about four chains, which of course control a large number of markets, 85 percent, the Czech Republic has about ten chains and does not control half of the market. Even the three largest chains do not have a total of 30 percent. So I don't know where the significant market power is. On the other hand, when I look at the supplier, the situation is a little different. For suppliers, one of the strongest has between 30 and 40 per cent depending on the market situation, and three of the strongest suppliers have more than 75 per cent. I admit that I don't understand the proposal a little bit, because as a result, we're going to support these three biggest suppliers, with no breath left in small and medium. In the end, when three control three-quarters of the market, all they have to do is get one out, and the other has pretty good blackmail tools for a businessman. And given the margins that are set there, I consider this law to be very redundant. By the way, the reasons why the first version of this law, which is valid, was actually non-compliance with the maximum maturity deadlines and then the protection of the weaker party. I think that we are currently living in the European Union, we have European trade law, we have a new Civil Code, and I see absolutely no reason to further regulate these relations. By the way, it is necessary to say out loud here, and I, if this law passes, will wait for it, my opinion is that there will be a price increase in goods in these markets and that the resulting effect will ultimately go against those for whom this law has been set up in good faith. When they say the word "market," everyone says they don't like them. We don't like them, nobody. Little businessmen don't like them because they're competition. They already have quality goods, cheap goods, different opening hours, because it pays to be open. In addition, a number of small businesses operate in their premises and are very satisfied. I really don't know at this point who this bill is built for. How is it possible when the markets are so horrible that so many people go there? I think people decided it for these negative comments because people go shopping where it pays off. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u5	Thank you. Mr Novotný now, then Mrs Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u6	Mr President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, when we listened to the relatively long first part of the debate on this proposal, two main arguments were raised from the point of view of the defenders and the proponents as to why this amendment is needed. The basic argument concerned the application of the legislative uncertainty of the law, which has been in force since the beginning of 2010. I would perhaps agree there, with the fact that I would also add that I can imagine very well that even this law would not regulate this environment in our country. And then we heard a lot of very strong emotional words about how this law protects the interests of Czech producers, especially small producers, against the evil foreign chains that have foreign mothers. This stimulates emotions about how profits go abroad and so on. [[15.00 hours]] Of course, the rhetoric can be well listened to by some people, and under the populist touch of this rhetoric, I fear that they can actually achieve the opposite of that law. The ODS is always very sensitive when someone tries to enter into free contractual relationships on the market through regulation. And in this case, as in any other case, we need to ask ourselves three basic questions - whether the form of regulation that is proposed is justified, whether it is systemic and whether it is effective, that is, if it actually brings the effect that the petitioners expect. One answer gives us real experience and life. The number of cases in which they were granted, and today this is still the subject of disputes, sanctions in the light of the law in force, does not convince of any great need for any new form of legislation. As far as systemicity is concerned, my colleague Adamec has already said it here. The analysis of the market, and not only in comparison with the countries it has indicated, but compared to a number of Western European countries, the standard ones that we often use as a model, shows that our retail market with those in bad chain quotation marks is, in fact, a much more competitive market with a much smaller monopoly position, with a much lower market power than in many markets in traditional Western European countries. At a time when we will only regulate the aspect of the relationship between the chain and the supplier, I fear that this legislative regulation will not meet the very basic condition for any legislative regulation, that is, its universal validity. [[Noise in the hall, Members form a noisy in the alleys.]] It should apply to all market players in similar situations. For those suppliers, it has already been mentioned here that the monopoly position is often much larger and -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u7	Colleagues and colleagues - I apologize, Mr. Ambassador - please be calm. I beg all the crowds to either disband or move into the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u8	And, of course, there is not only a food market, even in these chains a number of other types of goods are sold that are not covered by this amendment. In this respect, I consider the proposal to be systemically flawed, potentially causing a number of legal disputes at international level. But to the simplest and basic. I think we should answer and know how to answer, and that I would expect from the petitioners, three basic questions. Isn't there really an increase in the prices of products that become subject to this complex regulation when applying this law? I want to remind you that the fact that these chains have foreign mothers nowadays - and everyone who follows any food, their packaging, which is written there - does not mean that Czech manufacturers are only suppliers to the Czech branches of these chains, but very often the game, the market is international and they supply many other countries. At the moment we bring about an expected dispute, I can imagine very well that their export force can be threatened by this and, in fact, we can do them a bear service. The most basic thing for me here, however, paradoxically mentioned in the last discussion of the coalition MP, and that is the question that what is being offered is the risk that the products of the Czech producers in the environment causing the disputes will very simply be substituted by products from other countries. We all know how easy such a solution is and how many such producers are, and today, even in countries that we previously considered to be low quality food producers, the relatively high - around 75 percent - share of Czech products in these chains is ready very quickly. So I wonder if the real interest that is being protected here is the interest of the small Czech producers, or rather the interest of the often monopolistic suppliers, who will gain an even better position than they have so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u9	Thank you. Is there a factual remark from Mr Adamec, then really? [[Question for Chairman Stanjuru.]] With priority rights. So first de facto, then the priority right of President Stanjura and then Mrs Havlová. Now two minutes for Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, I forgot about that in my speech. Since I am convinced of this, and I do not want to see the price of food going up, I propose rejecting the bill's proposal in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u11	This proposal has already been made here, from Mr Laudát and Mr Stanjura, so it has already been proposed. With priority rights, Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u12	Thanks to the fact that we've been discussing this in the first reading several times, we don't just remember what kind of proposal went down, so I'd rather three times than not once. However, during the first performance, the Prime Minister promised to answer our questions and has not yet performed. Prime Minister, I would like to, I can't force you to answer us yet in the debate so that we can respond if necessary. The moment you keep your answers to the final word, I'll be Fiala only one from our club who can respond to your performance. I would like you to give us some arguments that could disprove the fundamental concerns that my colleagues have spoken about, both Mr Adamec and Mr Martin Novotný. This means how can you be sure that after the application of this law, Czech producers will not be replaced by foreign producers, on which the impact of this law will of course not be affected? How do you know that there will be no price increase as a result of the adoption of this law? Here, a coalition MP has given such an interesting economic view that I find it difficult to deal with. She said here in the debate either last time or the previous time that if the chains had higher costs, it would lead to price cuts. [[Noise in the hall.]] I must say that I am intrigued, and I would like to know if you, as the promoter of this law, agree with this economic logic or illogic that if someone has a higher cost, then the result will be a lower final price. On a series of questions, I would like to ask two more. Maybe I'll repeat myself, and I'm sorry that it's been a really long time since we first discussed this. Firstly, very often, both in the explanatory report and in the debate, you are perverting foreign patterns. So if you could compare the proposal you put forward with either German or Italian and tell us what it is different about and what it is like to look back west, preferably at least to Germany. Second thing. I know that sometimes the government goes around an institute called the Legislative Council of the Government. And if we, who have access to eKLEP, are going to do the work and look at the materials in which they are shaped before they come from the government to the House, we find that very often there are changes in bills directly to the government. Not in the context of commentary proceedings or settlement of comments, but directly to the government. And if my comparison of the materials is accurate, and that's the question, maybe I'm wrong, I think two important things fell out of the government. Firstly, the matter that Mr Adamec was referring to, that is, in the original bill, was a significant market force on both sides... [[A silence for the big noise in the hall. First of all, ČSSD members stand in the crowds and have a loud laugh.]] I really don't believe that this is a priority for government MPs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u13	I ask my colleagues on the left to either break up or leave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u14	To be fair, for government MPs sitting on the left of me not to include all government MPs in that set. That wouldn't be fair. That means whether the information that the significant market power in the original bill was on both sides of the business relationship and the suppliers fell out of the government. [[unintelligible]] I think Mr Adamec has made it clear that one or three of the most important suppliers have 75 percent of the market. And then, if you take it that the 10 largest strings have less than 50, then who has a stronger negotiating position? The three who have 75 percent or the 10 who have 46 percent? And you probably fired it on purpose, probably except for the government's meeting, if that's true. I ask you to answer this question. [[15.10 hours]] And the second was that when the draconian sanctions were there, the original proposal was that it must be a continuous violation. And that also came out from the way I compared the two proposals, except for the government. Then why such a draconian relationship, unless it's consistent. We can have fun, and when I ask about the comparison with the German and Italian model, try to compare the sanctions that are in Germany and Italy for the violation when we keep saying that we are drawing inspiration abroad. I think it's 20 grand. The euro, which is the highest sanction in Italy, certainly does not correspond to 10% of turnover. I think that the euro exchange rate would have to go down a lot to get to that number. Thank you and I will be happy if you answer these two specific questions in the debate as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u15	Yes, Mrs Olga Havlová has the floor now, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is quite interesting because it has been discussed in this House for several years. So far, no results. It is also interesting that this House opens its first reading for the fourth time. I would like to emphasise once again only the risks brought by the law. Again, this was not the standard procedure for making a proper comment procedure for the final text. On the contrary. The key sections of the law changed at the last minute. However, I consider it the worst that the law states that the law also applies to large suppliers. In the Czech market, not only chains but also large producers of foodstuffs and beverages with oligopolistic status have significant market power, and these entities must be covered by law in exactly the same way as retailers. No one did an analysis of the law after this key passage fell out of the law. So today we are talking about a law that is not properly analysed, how it will end up on the market. I ask you, Prime Minister, why these key provisions have fallen out of the law. Why don't you want them in the law? Why isn't this law supposed to be a whip to those oligarchic food producers? I asked you that question last time, and I didn't get an answer. The amendment can be very hard on our small Czech farmers and processors. According to the Association of Trade and Tourism, large chains will try to avoid the risk of unclear and winding-up sanctions that the amendment has set them up hard, and they will rather not buy from small Czech suppliers and look for goods abroad. The share of food from Czech producers and suppliers is between 70 and 80 percent for large chains. Moreover, business chains export Czech products to their foreign branches in the amount of tens of billions of crowns, which are not negligible numbers, and which are not mentioned at all. It may be a plague for the Czech food industry, where in the finals only large suppliers, which are surprisingly not affected by the law at all, even though they have such a significant market power, are already in advantage and will have an even greater advantage and the little ones will come to the drum. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister a second question. Can it guarantee that this warning of the Trade and Tourism Union will not be fulfilled? Won't it be a ligament wound for Czech small farmers? I would like to remind you once again that I propose that the amendment be brought back to the Government for work, particularly on the impact study on small farmers and processors for which this law may be winding up. And a study on the impact on food prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u17	Thank you, too. This proposal has already been made here, too, from you, from Mr Pavera and Mr Kučera, who is the next performer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u18	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. My previous speakers have already said a lot of information here, which is absolutely essential. I have also expressed myself on this law, on this amendment, in the previous meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. What I am clearly sorry about is the silence of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, who, if I wanted to say it very pejoratively, came here to serve time. The topics that fall here are very specific, they are the questions that contain... they are very factual. We haven't received any answers yet. I, of course, and I don't know if anyone has mentioned it here, but now there is information on the situation in Slovakia, where, according to a survey of the food chamber, after the introduction of this amendment of the law or similar amendment of the law in Slovakia, there was a decline in interest in domestic production. And there is this number that says that in Slovakia, there has been a decline in the representation of food domestic production to just 40 percent. The blame is this amendment of the law, which we will approve here today. We have spoken here countless times that the amendment to the law supports particularly large suppliers, who will continue, in addition to those foreign, of course, on the counters of the markets. The amendment does not contain any economic justification. As has also been said here, suppliers may have significant market power, especially those goods which traders cannot afford not to offer. So what can happen? Czech products will not only get on the counters of Czech shops, but also will not get on the counters of foreign shops. We all know that large markets in particular have clustered purchases if suppliers manage to be left out, so that they also appear in foreign markets. All of this leads to one, in my opinion, to the destruction of small suppliers. This is, however, included in the current steps of this government. Into the steps of the government that decided to throw sticks at small businessmen and favor the big ones, preferably the ones from the Agrofert Group. The motion to dismiss has fallen here, and I strongly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u19	Thank you, that was the last speech to the general debate so far. In the debate, the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u20	Thank you, Mr President, honourable Members. Only for those who may have come to this debate at this time, so I would just like to point out that this law has been repeatedly suspended in the Chamber of Deputies. So it's not true what one of my previous speakers said that the law has been going on here for years. It's been going on for months. I would also like to draw the attention of the Members who have spoken here, saying that I am silent about this law, that I have spoken here repeatedly in the debate. It is not just the debate today, but the debate has already been held several times in this Chamber of Deputies. And I have always responded to the questions that have been raised here, and I have introduced the Chamber of Deputies with my arguments. I must say that what has been said here today is merely repeated questions. I did not notice any new questions that I would not have responded to in the previous debate, whether I or, for example, some members of the government coalition. I have repeatedly tried to answer the questions that have been raised here, but I have a strong feeling that those Members who criticise this proposal do not really want any legislative regulation in this regard. And it is not only my feeling, but it is also proved by the fact that a parliamentary proposal is tabled, which completely repeals the law on significant market power. So, in my opinion, it cannot be pretended that the debate is being conducted on whether to have a better or a worse law, but there are fairly clear opinions in the Chamber of Deputies, where on the one hand there are Members and Members who have not wanted any such amendment for many years. That means they don't want regulation to be here, so there's a question of adjusting significant market power. And then there are the Members who have the opposite opinion, which means they want this regulation. [[15.20 hours]] I think that only the Chamber of Deputies can decide in this situation. It must decide whether or not to reject the proposal, and then at second reading, there is no doubt room for debate on such parameters as the amount of the fine. I also want to point out that sometimes examples from Europe are useful in the debate and sometimes they are not. I thank you very much for calling, in particular, for Members of the Civil Democratic Party to take an example from Western Europe. I am sorry that in this case Europe is arguing, and when we talk about what countries register cash registers are introduced, that this example is suddenly not suitable for the Czech Republic. This means that when we look at countries where there are property confessions, suddenly the example of these countries is not suitable for the Czech Republic. It's just that this is a political debate, and I'd like us not to play an interrogation here so that we don't play with questions that have already been asked here and answered several times, but everyone will be very clear about how retail should be regulated in our country. And I am convinced that there are a number of specific examples, and I have repeatedly mentioned them here, I have read them repeatedly here in the Chamber of Deputies, and you have had the opportunity to hear these opinions. I refer to the debate that took place last time. I mentioned absolutely specific examples of abuse of significant market power by chains, not by suppliers. And I am very sorry that, although I have said here specific examples of the abuse of market power by chains, there has not been a single specific example that would be supported by evidence that there is an abuse of significant market power by suppliers. I think regulation only makes sense if it regulates the real problem. There's no point in adopting laws here that regulate theoretical problems. And once again, I would like to call on all the Members who have mentioned the issue of mutuality here to give specific examples of the abuse of significant market power by suppliers. Undoubtedly, there will be room for discussion even when the second reading of this bill is discussed. There was also repeatedly the question of what dramatic impact this regulation will have on pushing Czech food out of our market. I repeatedly respond, just as I have answered in recent months, and again I do not mention this argument here for the first time, I mention it here for at least the third time, maybe for the fourth time - the law is already in force in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation of significant market power was approved in this hall in 2009. Since 2010, this system has been operating in the Czech Republic, and the Office for the Protection of Competition is also acting on these rules. And once again, I have answered specific questions from Members and Members, and I have set out here concrete decisions and negotiations of the ÚOHS in those specific cases. Thus, no general proclamation, no speculation, but specific cases where the UOHS assesses the misuse of significant market power, when it has already assessed the misuse of significant market power and when it has already granted specific fines for the misuse of significant market power. So there can be no radical movements in the area of our retail market simply because this regulation has already been in operation since 2010, it was approved in 2009 and has not brought up any of the negatives that have been speculatively mentioned in the debate. I simply think that it is evident that the adoption of this regulation in 2009 improved the behaviour of chains towards suppliers. Although the cases of administrative proceedings by the IOHS are not tens, but are individual cases, each of them dramatically influenced the behaviour of strings towards suppliers. The fact that this law exists here is a preventive effect on the behaviour of business chains. And I think it's also an undeniable fact, because in these individual cases, the chain of trade has proven to have changed their behavior. Once again, I refer to my previous speeches, when I mentioned specific examples here, where only the opening of the investigation by the UOHS led to a change in trade chain behaviour. So it's a classic political dispute here, we've got a whole series of these political disputes here. There are Members here who do not want to regulate the chains in any way, who want a free market. Then there are Members and Members who believe that there is an imbalance in the relations between the chain and suppliers, and they want regulation that is limited, which is quite specific. It's not a revolution. The revolution already took place in 2010, it was another government here, and none of the negative things that have been announced here have happened, and I am convinced that it will not happen. It is simply because we are now legislatively improving the existing form of regulation, which, in my view, has clearly proven itself. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I would like to refer - and it is so common here, if Members have spoken in the past parts of the debate, I think it is not entirely productive for us to repeat our speeches and answers to questions here and again. I would like to refer to my previous speech on this point and I would like to refer to my previous speech on this point in the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, of course, I am ready to take part in the discussions in the committees, if this law passes into the committees and receives the support of the Chamber of Deputies at first reading. In any case, I would like to ask for this support because I believe that this proposal clearly improves existing legislation from a legislative point of view and makes it more enforceable. More enforceable under clearer conditions, for everyone - both for suppliers and for chains and for the Office for the Protection of Competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u21	I thank the Prime Minister and I have two factual points here. First is Mrs Kovářová, then Mr Bendl. And then, with a proper application, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has spoken about what Members want or do not want. And I just want to know if he can answer my question simply. He has successfully avoided this answer so far, and I think other colleagues have also asked this question, and I will therefore repeat it. My question is as follows: which Minister of Exemption of Suppliers from Regulation, despite the opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition, proposed at the Government's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u23	Mr. Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u24	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr President, Prime Minister, I did not want to speak either, but you inspired me with the questions that you basically asked here because you said here that we already have a law on market power, but here we have problems as well. So the reason, in your opinion, is that we have here again this law, which needs to be adjusted again, to introduce mandatory maturity periods that the State itself does not comply with. Thirty days' maturity isn't common with the state either, and it would be easy to do it, we wouldn't have to deal with it by law, you could do it by some government decree, etc. I'm sure the Treasury Secretary would find a way to make it up without having to deal with the law. I'm just gonna repeat, the fact that we already have the law shows that the law is basically not gonna solve anything. They'll do it differently in the end. If there is too much bureaucracy, they will resolve their business relationship beyond the borders of the Czech Republic - in Germany, Austria, etc., and they will get around it anyway, because it is absolutely nonsense. Total nonsense! You're defending something that will make life difficult for small businesses here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u25	Thank you. Now, therefore, the proper application by Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak either, because there is some kind of agreement that we are going to let this bill into committee, but the Prime Minister has lifted me from the chair. First of all, he didn't answer the questions that fell during the last meeting. I think the question is quite clear: why did you change the proposal written by a lawyer from the University of West Bohemia, and there is a different proposal than the Government Legislative Council has apparently judged? [[15.30 hours]] For the next one. You've already quoted here in general that there are already decisions. I know about a case involving a due date. There's no need to deal with that today. This was perhaps the only benefit of the entire 2010 Act in which the secondary insolvency was prevented, but it is now being dealt with by the Commercial Code. So I don't understand why we're supposed to keep booby-tramping. The fact is, he touches me personally. Because even a zero solution is a legislative initiative. We here in the past period with Mr. Plachý of the ODS have made a motion to abolish this senseless law. If cartels, monopolies and unfair acts are created somewhere, that is why the competition law is there. If anyone should make a material contribution to this, someone should submit it, it will certainly not be an IOHZ, who is not even able to coach public contracts and deal quickly so that it does not paralyze Czech construction, but the Ministry of Industry and Trade, where I still judge, competition, its rules and problems belong. This is where the UOHZ motion was made, and then somebody turned it over to the government, so I don't know if the Legislative Council of the Government was going back to that. What you're saying here, Prime Minister, you're wrong about almost nothing. You're experimenting with the free market. You experiment with food manufacturers, with suppliers, and you always pick something out, some group, and you attack it. If you want to take an example from the Slovák, where it ends with them starting to drown in lawsuits, that's exactly the way you stand here. If you say that the government is presenting, then I do not understand why your first vice-president and vice-premier Babiš is saying in the direction of the Tourism and Trade Union the exact opposite that this law is not needed. I don't think it's necessary. And he's needed, but universally and in competitions. In competition, not here as lex specialis. So please, if you're correct and answer those questions. By the way, your promises in this are exactly the same as when you asked for the government's trust. You said, "I'm not gonna react here anymore, it's over time, all your comments on the government statement, I'm gonna answer you all, we're gonna analyze from the log. You haven't done it yet. So your promises in this are... I'll admit that by September I'll be analyzing your answers and the questions that fell here. But please answer in a simple way: Why did you change the example that Rafaj sent to you on the government and why it does not present and solve your Minister of Industry and Trade and stick your nose in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u27	Thank you. Now please, with Mr Adamec's point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u28	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll do it again. On the contrary, I would like to commend the Prime Minister for his honesty. He made it clear: it's a political law, it's about the perception of the world as such. I appreciate the honesty, and I think the questions that are falling here are unnecessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u29	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. With Mrs Havlová in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u30	Thank you for the floor. The Prime Minister here said one important thing - that no one came here with any specific things. So I immediately brought in, and that is - and we have a clear indication here that in August Prazdroj increased the beer in 2012 by an average of 3% and immediately thereafter in October it increased the Prazdroj also by 3%. I don't think that's itself either. And then there's the businessman who upped the pastries and forced them to do it by the biggest baker. I'm not gonna read the articles here, but that's exactly how it works. And I would like to say that I am not against the law on market power as such, but I will insist that it be bilateral, that suppliers and customers be there, because there are more monopolies, and perhaps the example of Becherovka, who sets herself on the market because it has no competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u31	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? I am not registering any application, I am ending the general debate. We will now proceed to the vote on the proposals, first of all, on the proposal by Mrs Havlová, Mr Pavera and Mr Kučera to return the proposal submitted to the applicant for completion. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'll call my colleagues from the lobby... and begin the vote. I ask who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I shall terminate the vote with order number 153. 179 were logged in, for 42, against 109. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected. We will now vote on Mr Laudát's proposal and Mr Stanjura's motion to reject the proposal. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. [[Comments from the O.R.]] Yes, I'm sorry. I'll check everyone out and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. It is a motion to reject the proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is the vote number 154, to which 166 were registered, for 31, against 119. This proposal was also rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a committee of guarantee. I wonder if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. It's not like that. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a 155-order vote in which 170 were registered, for 167, against one. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if anyone has a motion on the commandment of the next committee. I beg Mr Laudát and then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u32	I propose an economic committee because it is a tough intervention and further regulation of competition law. First of all. So it's the Economic Committee. And then the Committee on European Affairs. The reason is simple. I believe that there is a market deviation here and that someone who deals with European economic law, regulation of market relations, should know and compare it with what Europe is up to, because she is discussing some things in some way. That is why I would like you, at least in the first approach, to devote yourself to this law. That is, the Economic Committee and the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-003-025.u33	Thank you. We will vote on further proposals for the commandment separately. First, we will vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's order number 156, 172 were registered, 135 against one. I note that this proposal has been approved. [[15.40 hours]] Furthermore, we will vote on the proposal for a commandment to the Committee on European Affairs. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 157, to which 172 are registered, for 40, against 101. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected. The draft law was allocated to the Agricultural Guarantee Committee and to the Economic Committee. I'm ending the first reading of this law. We will now proceed to discuss item number
