ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u1	111. Government bill amending Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended, Act No. 269/1994 Coll., on the Criminal Register, as amended, and some other laws /house print 368 - third reading [[11.50 hours]] At the rapporteur's table, I ask that the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee take up their positions as the plaintiff, Mr Bronislav Schwarz. The amendments are set out in House Press No. 368/3, which was delivered on 20 May this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered to you as the House's press 306/4. The draftsman, Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, is ready to speak before the debate is opened. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have explained and defended this bill in detail at first and second reading. So let me just make a brief summary. The bill introduces an amendment to the criminal record kept by the criminal register, which will contain selected offences under the Act on Infractions. Specifically, these are offences against public order, against civil coexistence and against property. The bill affects the repeated commission of this crime and these offences by increasing the rate of fines. The guarantee committee discussed the amendments to the bill. I agree with most of these proposals. However, I can no longer agree with the amendments that we have expressed negatively in the negotiations. This is primarily an amendment to Section 72 of the Criminal Code, followed by the release of offences on the fishing section from the registration of offences, the release of access by the Financial and Customs Administration to the record of offences requested under the amendments. These proposals have been requested and proposed by Mr Benda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u3	I thank the Minister and open the debate. I have Mr. Jeroným Tejc's application for it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u4	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, since this is the third reading, I will address the amendments. I will not mention the law as a whole, but I recommend that we adopt this bill. I think that it can make a significant contribution, especially in the area that is now often referred to, and that is the question of the possession of firearms. I would like to point out that, for the first time in a long time, this really is an instrument to determine whether persons who hold a gun and have a gun license actually commit or do not commit offences for whose commission of an arms license may be withdrawn. So, in this sense, support for the bill as a whole. However, I would like to ask you to support the two specific items that the Constitutional Committee has read and tabled after a rather broad debate. For one thing, it was a proposal that the Ministry of the Interior wanted to increase the length of time during which it was possible to discuss an offence that today is one year, for three years. Most of us agreed that it was right not to circumvent the law, to artificially prolong the proceedings and to extend the deadline. However, we did not think and do not think that it could be extended for up to three years, because in such a case, the authorities would probably have used this deadline more often than they abused. And as far as some crimes are concerned, there is a three-year deadline. We think that it should be shorter for offenses, and we therefore propose a compromise option for two years of preclusion for offenses. The second important thing is a thing that doesn't allow any of us to request a copy from this criminal record. We can apply for a criminal record today, we're all used to that. We hesitated and we were debating whether or not we should be able to ask each of us for a statement from that register. Finally, we have recommended, and it will be up to you if you accept this recommendation that it should not be possible. Simply because every one of us, even if he didn't commit any offenses, would undoubtedly be ten times over the next few years, maybe thirty times a year for different purposes, he had to prove that he didn't commit any offenses. It would be administratively demanding, to a large extent even economically challenging for a number of people, and we think it would make no sense. The register is to be usable for state authorities. State authorities can look into it, there may be different consequences, but it is not right, in our view, to use this as conditions for further activities, for example, through different private companies. That landlords would require a statement from the criminal record, employers and others, and undoubtedly even those who do not commit any offenses, would not be happy to have to keep showing this. So much for justifying the two things that are part of the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee under points A, however, it will, of course, depend on the voting procedure as it organises them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u5	Thank you, Mr Jeroný Tejc. Another party to the debate is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u6	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would have a great request to the Minister of the Interior if it were possible at least partially to elaborate the grounds for the rejection of the position of the Ministry of the Interior on the amendments approved by the Constitutional Legal Committee. Even at both meetings in which he dealt with this bill. I know that a procedure will be proposed other than that recommended by the Constitutional Committee, and I assume that the government will mostly pass. But I would consider it fair for us to at least discuss it in this House. The Ministry of the Interior - and the Minister has never been present, which I understand, of course, is why he has his experts who are to attend the committee's meeting - have repeatedly been present at the hearing of this draft law on offences, neither at the committee nor at the reading which preceded the second reading, nor at the reading which preceded the third reading, have been able to justify the matters with which the Ministry is now expressing its opposition. No one on that committee could explain what access to the Register of Infractions was for the Financial Administration and Customs Administration. There's no reason but curiosity. And there is no legal right to give the Financial and Customs Administration any opportunity to act in financial and customs proceedings otherwise on the grounds that it looks into the criminal record. I'm not gonna be here long discussing my favorite fishermen. I think we've spent enough time with them in second reading. But again, I would very much ask this House to really consider whether, because of the fact that it is a qualifying requirement for a city officer, anyone who commits the slightest offense on the fishing section would have this information hanged for five years and x the state authorities at the moment they want to verify the person had the right to go there and say: He really caught or did not catch an undersized fish or caught or caught on two or three lines. I really consider it so absurd that I believe that the House will behave according to the vote of the Constitutional Legal Committee. But that's why I wanted the Home Secretary not to go over it just because the Home Office didn't agree. But if there's any argument to be made. 'Cause otherwise, I'm gonna have to pull the argument out of the explanatory memorandum, and I'm gonna read you a reason message here to see that there are no reasons at all. That the explanatory memorandum has long been discussing how the Financial and Customs authorities need criminal records, which no one is questioning. They still have them. So there's no reason to talk about it. But why they need a criminal record, no one has the slightest idea. Apart from the fact that a few officials are curious and it seems to them that it would be advantageous to have access to such a register. Unfortunately, I really consider the bill to be a big mistake, as proposed by the bill. We've talked about this again, I'm sorry the Home Office hasn't been able to come up with a thesis that I think would have a general approval here. [[12.00 hours]] The repeated commission of these minor offences on the section in particular public order and petty crime should become a criminal offence. That's the only objective that can prevent repeated misdemeanors. As we have produced today, sanctions only increased from five or ten thousand to fifty thousand, the idea that I will undoubtedly not be able to enforce twenty or fifty thousand in the event of the commission of small crime, in particular violations of public order and, in particular, petty thefts - if I am unable to enforce five or ten thousand. This will in no way improve the situation in troubled locations. If anything could make her better, it would just be that chaining up petty misdemeanors becomes a felony. The problem is that this is not included in the bill. I think it is hard for anyone to ask the opposition to be able to process what changes to the criminal code are meant to be so that repeated offences are a criminal offence. But I'm sorry the government and the Home Secretary didn't bring it up alone. Nevertheless, I ask: well, it is not there, we establish a register only for the register, but at least it should be justified who wants to look into it and what reasons it has for it. I understand that the Minister did not say everything in his introductory words, but I would ask him very much if at least some brief reasoning could still be made in the context of the general debate so that I do not have to abuse the situation after the end of the debate that I am Vice-President of a club whose chairman is not here. If this reasoning could still be stated in the debate, and it could possibly be argued with it, because I believe that most of this House would really want to know why someone should look in the register when it has no legal competence to do something about the outcome of this look. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Congressman, for your contribution to the debate. I note one point of fact with which Mr Martin Plíšek is reporting. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u8	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I will just say a brief opinion to the TOP 09 and the starosta. We were prepared on the condition that the amendments to the guarantee committee, which dealt with this proposal repeatedly, would be able to support this proposal, but the information that Mr Benda said would be proposed by a voting procedure other than that recommended by the guarantee committee, is unlikely to allow us to do so. But I don't want to anticipate. I just want to mention that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies has been in force since March. We have set up a guarantee committee, which will meet for the second time after the proposal has been discussed for the first time and will examine all amendments made by both the committee and those tabled by Members at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. At the meeting of the Guarantee Committee, repeated, the rapporteur, to which he has the right, submitted a proposal for a new voting procedure, which was intended to divide the original proposals of the Constitutional Legislative Committee. This has not even been passed by the votes of the Coalition Members and the Constitutional Committee with a majority, I would say by a large majority, agreed on a certain voting procedure. That's what the guarantee committee is for to suggest this. It is now information that there will be a completely different voting procedure from the Constitutional Legal Committee itself, so that we can vote separately on the Committee's amendments, because the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Finance said they could not support the proposal in this way. Then I ask you, what exactly did we get the guarantee committee for? From what the press discusses again, when the Deputy Minister did not explain certain things, even if she did not mind that the Guarantee Committee or that the Constitutional Committee had discussed the proposal, and the Minister, through some Members, said to the Chamber of Deputies, that he could not support those proposals on which the Guarantee Committee was working and on which he clearly agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u9	Ambassador, I'm sorry. You signed up with a point of fact, and your time is up. If you wish to continue, please sign up properly for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u10	Yes, thank you. So I would recommend respecting the resolution of the guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u11	Thank you. I want to ask - did the rapporteur, Schwarz, come forward? Then in the closing statement. Well, in that case, with a factual remark, Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u12	Thank you for the floor. I will use the factual remark as it should be used, and I will respond to the previous contribution. Please, let's not interpret the procedure of the guarantee committee in this way, because it was a little different. The guarantee committees are still relatively novelty, we are learning in the committees what the guarantee committee is supposed to do, and we agreed from the standpoint of form that if there are no really extraordinary circumstances, the guarantee committee should respect the way the press has once discussed, because it is pointless for the guarantee committee to discuss the same thing twice in substance. So the guarantee committee is basically focusing on the amendments that come from other committees, and its own agenda, which he has already properly discussed, and the offenses have really been given a great deal of space, as President Tejc said here, so we did not go back to that. That's all. So please, it's not that the second guarantee committee has renegotiated and agreed to it again. We've only followed the procedure, and we think it should be, and it's the right thing to do. If discussion in second reading has subsequently continued and there is a need for an opinion shift and there is a reaction from the Ministry, that is what this vote is about. That's not the work of the guarantee committee anymore. So let's see how the guarantee committee is supposed to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u13	I thank you, and another point of fact is made by Mr Plíšek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot agree with this interpretation of my colleague Vondráček. The representatives of the Ministry of the Interior were also on the Constitutional Legal Committee during the first hearing and during the second discussion within the Guarantee Committee, so they were there twice. And now to change the voting procedure to the plenary, which the guarantee committee... I was here to remind you that the guarantee committee agreed by a large majority on the proposal for a voting procedure, which logically proposes that certain proposals be voted jointly. Something else will now come directly from this constitutional committee in the sense that it is necessary to comply with the Minister that he does not agree with some of the proposals. I'm going to mention some very specific things here. For example, we are. by a large majority of the votes in the committee, we supported the withdrawal of the authorisation of the Financial Administration and subsequently the Customs Administration to have access to the register of offences. The relevant Deputy Minister of the Ministry of the Interior did not explain why the Ministry of Finance wanted this approach, a large majority of the committee, including coalition Members, did not understand it either, and that is why we proposed the launch. It's supposed to happen here today that it's going to be going back there again. So I'm just mentioning that after the guarantee committee gives some opinion that at least members of the committee should respect him. I would understand if the proposal came from somewhere else, but if it comes directly from the committee, then I ask why the guarantee committee, which repeatedly discusses the proposal with the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, what do we have it for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u15	Thank you. For the record, I would like to ask: Minister, have you applied with priority rights or with a factual remark? With priority rights. Well, in that case, you have to wait, because I have three factual points in front of you. First of all, Mr. Tejc with his point of fact, Mr Schwarz will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u16	I think it's pretty simple. The guarantee committee is to say what the voting procedure is. That's a new one, a reporter used to do it, now it's a guarantee committee. He proposed a procedure, no one is questioning it, the procedure will be presented by the rapporteur, but if one of his fellow Members and fellow Members proposes an alternative procedure, it has been done in recent years. All the time I've been in the House, it's been quite a regular point, a change in the procedure that the government coalition proposes, in particular, in agreement with the government coalition, so it's nothing new, it's quite common, and if the House votes for it, the House will say what it's going to vote on, in what order, in my opinion, it's nothing to spend long minutes and hours of debate on here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u17	Thank you. Now, Mr Schwarz and Mr Benda thereafter, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I've got to get this quick. When I listen to my fellow lawyers, they say it nicely, but I'll say it in my own words. I may be angry with someone, but I don't care at this point. My colleague Plíšek through the Vice-President. Maybe you'll damage me. It is my mess because I am not part of the Constitutional Legal Committee, and a few of my colleagues were missing, which is why the truth has to be told. It's not like the minister's coming. Ministerial officials were there, but by not voting or simply not coming, some coalition MPs were voting the way they did. That's the whole truth. What are you talking about? Tell it like it is. We're here in the House today, and if I was on the committee, and I couldn't be there, or I didn't want to be there at the time, I don't know, I would have voted completely differently. I would vote the same way I will vote today. That's the whole problem. Not the problem of the Ministry, the participation of coalition MPs in the committee. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u19	Thank you. I note other factual points, that is to say, the first is Mr Bendl, after whom Mr Kalousek and then Mr Benda. I will therefore ask Mr Bendl to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u20	Just following up on the debate that's going on here. When the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of the Interior is unable to really explain why it needs online information in the criminal record. In general, I'm a little worried about the concentration of power at the Treasury Department. And we're here to support a proposal like this. So at least the present Home Secretary couldn't answer what the Treasury needs access to such a registry that the Treasury needs to know that someone went somewhere red or dumped a pile of sand on the sidewalk, illegally, and got into a misdemeanor trial. What's it for?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr Kalousek. Mr. Benda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, by your means, I would like to say to the rapporteur and to Mr Schwarz that I understand his reasons, although they are slightly shocking, because his movement along with the ANO movement has come here because they will work and will not do it as politicians before. Now I hear as a reason that the committee's position is here because they didn't work. They just didn't come to the job. Now that everyone's here, they're clear. I, Mr Schwarz, do not question your free right to a public official and to publicly embarrass Members of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm just really wondering what that value is that's worth to you. And I'm sure you won't tell us that. Even if we're... [[Yes.]] Well, you're gonna tell us something, but the real value of why you're publicly embarrassing yourself here in rectal alpinism towards the Chairman of the YES movement, we're not really gonna know. But we can imagine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u23	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Benda. Mr Schwarz will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u24	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to get back into a substantive debate with the Minister, because it would seem more important to me than this. Just what my colleague Schwarz said. It is true that he was not at the committee's first meeting, but most things were voted by an absolutely unambiguous majority of the constitutional law committee, because the Ministry of the Interior was unable to defend why the Financial and Customs Administration should climb into the criminal record if there is no reason to do so. It doesn't give them any new competence. It is not at all clear what it will do them except for some general feeling that they might be either harder on people or softer on them in a different way, in a different way. I'm very curious what will happen when this comes to the Constitutional Court one day, that it will be found that the Financial Administration ordered someone to register as a tax administrator, because before she looked into the criminal record and found out that he had once served a slightly larger fish and that she had given him an obligation to register as another entity on that basis. It seems completely absurd to me. But at the constitutional law committee, it has been going through a very clear majority, and I would therefore like at least the things that went through at the IDA and which the minister now says he doesn't agree, and I understand that he can disagree with the government, but to be justified here and to have a momentous conversation about them here. And not that the government stands on its own. If it is enough for government MPs to stand on their own and vote as one man with government, it is, of course, their right, but still trust me that it is my right as an opposition Member to ask why the government stands on its own when it was not able to defend it in the relevant guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u25	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Schwarz. Mr. Tejc will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Leading a controversy with the most experienced politician, or the oldest one here, I don't want to do that, Mr. Kalousek. I will tell him through the Vice-President, as it really is. What I said, I insist. I wasn't on the committee. If it's my fling or I'm embarrassing myself with it, I'm telling you how it is. I think I'm in the House and I have the right to say my side, and that it's true, someone can trust me, somebody doesn't have to. It's just like that. I just wasn't there. If I were there, I'd explain to the D.O.D. Why am I defending this? It's not - he said it nicely, rectal alpinism. I call it "Riteclimbing." I don't need to run it. I think he's known me for a while now, that I don't need to. Why am I talking about this? Because I'm really convinced that the Financial Administration has to look into offenses. I'm really convinced that the Customs Department has to look into offenses. I'm convinced that the offenses and the fishing... Why?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u27	I will ask the Members not to shout at each other and respect the lecturer. If you want to get off, then publicly on the microphone. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u28	Thank you. He longs for an answer. I'll answer why. Because it's in their interest. Customs deals with offences, the Financial Administration deals with offences, and the police in the past, when dealing with offences that are not crimes, they return them to someone to be investigated. You know that as lawyers. If there is an offence on the line of those people or those organizations, they have the right to look at it and know that they are currently dealing with someone who has already had a similar offense. It's very simple. That's why. And I wanted to finish that last one. If I didn't know it from practice, I beg you, why they have to look at it, I wouldn't be defending it. It's so wrong what many of you here think about my circles that we're voting as someone tells us. You're really making a big mistake. It may seem that way, but I'm not one of them and my colleagues. We're really arguing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u29	Your time, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry. [[Thank you.]] Thank you, too. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Tejc. Mr Kalousek will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u30	I would like to save a few minutes by declaring that in all possible voting procedures, whether the committee's proposal is chosen or the committee's proposal says: let us vote together on whether we vote on the Customs and Financial Administration with all the amendments, whether or not it will have access, and in the alternative procedure that is very likely to be presented, we will see how the debate will end, but if it is tabled, I guarantee that I will support voting on the possibility of Customs and Financial Administration looking into the register separately. For the House to decide. So that it is not so that we are either taking the whole package of amendments or not. And I think that's something we can agree on. This is the House, not the committee, no one else will decide whether the Customs and Financial Administration should look into the criminal record. I confess that I also have a big question mark on this, because I am not quite sure whether tax control is to be carried out on the basis that someone has misdemeanors and someone doesn't, but as I say, we will decide on this vote. There's no need to go back to the procedure in this matter. I will propose that we vote on the Customs and Financial Administration, and I will agree with my colleagues that we present an alternative procedure which will allow the vote individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u31	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark from Mr Kalousek and Mr Bendl will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u32	Thank you for the floor. I will answer Mr Schwarz through you. It is precisely because I know you, my colleague, that I know that you do not need, and even if you do need, you would not do so to do so for material goods. That's just what you do because they're soul mates. And I see that as infinitely more dangerous. The current policy of the current government coalition of communists, socialists, the ANO movement and the People's Party every step, is doing everything in its power to get all citizens online under control and take away the sense of independence from everyone. It works. That's what history has verified that this is working. And we're concerned about this, and we said we wouldn't give it a step, not one step. And we're really not gonna give it a step back. We will always fight against it. We'll always vote against it. We may lose this, but at the earliest opportunity, we will return to the people the freedom you are now collecting from them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u33	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Bendl and Mr Farský will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u34	Thank you. I may not be that strict anymore because I listened carefully to the honourable Member. My daughter, and I thank him for his opinion, because I think that there really is a matter of misdemeanor proceedings - and those of you who have ever had the opportunity to get to it in a business way know that this is a question of the parties to the proceedings. This procedure will decide something, and that's it. Here comes a system where one of the state authorities, in this case the Ministry of Finance, wants to see into the registers - and a fellow Member here, the rapporteur, basically confirmed it - and wants to consider, wants to punish someone, or at least to know about it in addition, because he's been before that commission before. Please, guys, you need to put it that way on the outside. I think it's a bit of a tendency for the police state to know everything about everyone, and the moment it comes in handy, then let it be written in their own newspaper or something like that. Please don't. I really don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u35	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Farský is signed in and Mr Laudát will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is only a few months since the new amendment to the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies entered into force, which we have put in place a guarantee committee which has the task of not changing procedures at the last minute. And even the change in the procedure, even though it may only look like an auxiliary vote, can fundamentally influence the outcome. Following the vote of some proposals, you will exclude the vote in their next order, you can block the approval of some parts and also significantly affect the entire functioning of the law. The moment we proceed to marginalize the guarantee committee, to change its procedure, which he adds here, we are basically going around the amendment to the Rules of Procedure and canceling it. And it was one of those fundamental laws on which the entire House agreed that it would certainly benefit the quality of the resulting laws, that it would benefit us to know how we were voting and that we would know what outcome we would get. And here I would certainly follow up and support the words of my colleague Plíšek, who drew attention to this. Let us not really do this, let us not approach these changes, because we are in a situation where we are once again going to fight for what is to be taken on a professional level in the committee itself, in this case a guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u37	Thank you. I'm registering two more factual points. The first is Mr Laudát, then Mr Vondráček, and now - Mr Schwarz withdraws. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u38	If the rapporteur believes that the fight for fundamental human freedom is delaying, then, of course, he ran for a movement that despises freedom. There's nothing else I can say. And today's discussion of this point is proof of that. What you're really doing here is building a police snooping state. It seems at first glance completely innocent and logically also towards the public, which so far supports you. After all, some people commit misdemeanors, but citizens say, "This is none of our business" - of course it concerns us. The moment someone's wrong, at this point, it's usually about entering a political life, they start pulling weaknesses on him. It always gets through the official databases. I don't know if Nagyová was swearing at Nečas and sending him somewhere, so if it's in the state's interest. And it'll get out of court, the police. And I've never heard anyone take responsibility for these leaks. I don't know if the public should know when two people in a private part of the conversation are having fun, even if they are, or if they were public persons. And if you don't think it's gonna touch you, those minions of yours at different headquarters and companies, let them realize that the Nagy are laughing today, maybe tomorrow the nation will have fun at their expense, and they'll stand before the court. You know, he almost every once gets into ending politics, and then he turns the cards around. And maybe somebody's gonna have to take revenge or bring up what you're doing today. That is why the best security of citizens, and they should have the right to privacy, is simply not to approve such laws. I am sorry that social democracy is involved in this as a standard political party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u39	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u40	I'm gonna put the debate back where it should be on the material page. My colleague Plíšek here said and followed up with Mr Farský about the procedure and the guarantee committee. But Mr Plíšek did exactly the same to me in the press relating to the execution proceedings, where, despite the original vote, he removed the executor's lien and voted on it separately. So he didn't respect what the guarantee committee once agreed to. So what does that tell me? That he's doing what's right for him. He's arguing as well as he can. I'm just saying that the guarantee committee once said, "I recommend," for example, at point A5, so if something extraordinary doesn't happen, then why should he renegotiate? Because we've been discussing offenses for quite a long time. And vote again whether I recommend or not? That's the point, the principle. And then it's up to the plenary to decide if that point is questionable to vote on it separately, which we want here, and you will have the right to express your opinion by voting on what is going on here. That's how it should be. Here's a dispute about what a guarantee committee is supposed to do. It's about all of you. My opinion is that the guarantee committee shouldn't do the same thing twice, that's all. That's the whole point of the argument. And that's how it should stay. I honored it here even in the second vote, although here I will express my opinion differently in the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u41	Thank you. Mr Plíšek is now signed up with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u42	Have a nice afternoon. Unfortunately, Mr. Vondráček is wrong again in his performance. The case he pointed out when we were discussing the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure is somewhat different. There the whole committee agreed on the voting procedure proposed by me and then, according to this procedure, a vote was taken at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The situation is different today. Today, the guarantee constitutional law committee agreed on a voting procedure. Perhaps a Member of the same committee will propose a different voting procedure here today for special reasons, and Members will vote again today in a different way than they did on those proposals on the guarantee committee. So it's a slightly different situation. We're just asking, and I'd like to return it, and I believe the Home Secretary is gonna get some space now and answer those questions about why Customs and Financial Administration are authorized to enter the criminal record. The whole House is waiting for that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u43	Thank you. Since I don't see any other factual point, I have two applications with priority rights. First is Minister Chovanec and then President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. By your means, Mr President, Mr Plíšek. I've never said anything in the Chamber of Deputies. It's not my custom. I must say, I appreciate the opinion of the guarantee committee. On the other hand, with some proposals from the Guarantee Committee, the Ministry simply did not give its consent and we would like the House to vote on these matters on its own, in order to decide on the plenary. We are in a democratic society and it is decided simply and simply by the majority, which, of course, has the right to know the opinion of the guarantee committee, which in some votes will simply differ with the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior and our experts. [[12.30 hours]] On the question of the already popular and mentioned fisheries, why we therefore want to continue to register and take them into account. In essence, the offences in the fishing sector fall within the scope of offences that define the reliability of the constable of the municipal police. Even an officer of the municipal police often reveals offences on the section of violation of this provision, whether it is a fishing order or other regulations, and it would probably be very strange if the same person who exposes these offences had committed them himself. The question of reliability is that this man has to commit offenses repeatedly. That means, it's not that a city police officer keeps one undersized fish, and it's already been so-called with him. It's just a repeated commission of this misdemeanor. Similarly, in our view, this has an impact on the assessment of the applicant, who proves himself fit for obtaining an arms licence. Even there, it is de facto in this register, which is why we insist that the repeated commission of an offence on the fishing sector be recorded in the record of offences. The question that many colleagues have been discussing here, and that is the question of the Customs Administration. You know, we here and priori condemn people who work for the state, i.e. customs officers, police officers and others, to abuse and abuse the rights we give them. After all, we just want them to know in administrative proceedings about the people they've got ahead of them, whether they're blameless or not. For example, a model example can be an assessment of the risk of tax entities and persons who control firms when registering in the value added tax system. Here we can refer to the judgment of the European Court of Justice number C527 of 2011. Furthermore, we think it would be good for these authorities to have insight into the register for the specific registration process of the person of the distributor of fuel, or for the so-called institute of integrity, respectively. the newly established Institute of Economic Stability Conditions. There too is a need for these authorities and authorities to have insight into the register. It may also be a specific registration process within the framework of Act No. 307/2013 Sb., on mandatory marking of alcohol. The assessment of the tax administrator is simply essential for these entities to obtain the licensing and other arrangements provided for in those laws. As regards Mr Benda's amendments, through Mr President. There's a motion to dismiss the state's attorney's office from a list of authorities with access to the criminal record. The list of authorities with access to the record of offences is based on a list of authorities with access to the records of convicted persons. The data contained in the record of offences will be relevant to the assessment of the person concerned even in the exercise of the unfair powers of the prosecutor, e.g. in proceedings in matters relating to the custody of minors. Furthermore, it is the data used under the jurisdiction to bring an action against a decision in the public interest pursuant to § 66 (1) of the EC Treaty. 2 Administrative Rules of Procedure. In general, as regards the release of access to the intelligence record, it should be noted that data from the offence log should be used on the basis of the proposal in all cases where certain input of such secret services for a specific performance, operation or procedure is relevant under the law. Therefore, if a record of offences is established and this record contains information about the offences committed, and if the law states that such an indication is of importance to the administrative authority in a particular case, we think that this possibility needs to be maintained simply and simply. Data from criminal records kept by the Criminal Register are relevant to the intelligence services with regard to their scope in the provision of information. This is in the explanatory memorandum under point 2. Then there is the disapproval of the Ministry of the Interior once again with the amendment that gave, I feel, my colleague Benda, and that is the release of access to sickness insurance authorities. The reasons for disagreement may refer to the general reasons for the previous amendments. In the newly amended section 90 letter. (f) Law No 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, it is regulated that the sickness insurance authorities may request copies of criminal records for the purposes of proceedings under § 31. This applies to sickness insurance benefits, for example, on the grounds that the incapacity for work was caused by the deliberate commission of an offence, and under Section 126 of the Health Insurance Act it is a regression compensation of the sickness insurance authorities against the perpetrator of the offence. We believe that, on the basis of the two paragraphs that I have quoted, it would be appropriate for these authorities to have access to the criminal record. We have retreated on many issues and are ready to support, or I am ready to support some amendments. I hope that with the questions that have been raised here, at least in a nutshell, I have stated why the Ministry of the Interior does not agree with these proposals. I say again, he will decide to vote. The guarantee committee is important in order to assess the proposals. On the other hand, the Chamber of Deputies, as a phenomenon, has the right to decide on its own merits, at its discretion, even differently than the guarantee committee proposes. At least I think that's how it should work. Thank you for your attention and I'm ready for the next round of debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u45	Thank you, Minister. I have here one point of fact by Mr Bendl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u46	Thank you for the floor. To the margo of what the minister said. I understand that the Customs Administration, as the administrative authority issuing the administrative decision, wants to keep track of whether someone who is involved in an offence, an infraction, has already been affected within the Customs Administration, and that it needs some additional information on whether it has not happened twice within the administrative body, three times and so on. But I still don't understand why the Customs Office needs online information about what is going on in the village of Dolní Lhota, Horní Lhota or in any city hall etc. Why does the Customs Administration simply need information that one or another citizen in any municipality or city in the Republic, if he has committed any offence, type of dumping of brothel or sand on the pavement, etc., why does the Customs Administration and the Ministry of Finance need it for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u47	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read the notes that arrived. Today he apologizes from 14:00 and tomorrow also for work reasons Mr Fichtner and today from 12.15 to the end of the morning meeting, perhaps the afternoon meeting, Minister Stropnický. Let's keep going. President Kalousek is registered with priority rights. Mr Benda is then duly registered. Before you speak, I'll ask the House to keep it down. Especially here in the left part repeatedly there's a higher level of noise, so I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As much as it doesn't have to look, the previous point and the current point are related. They relate to the fact that, in the vast majority of this Chamber of Deputies, the Chamber of Deputies itself has procedures, its bodies and their weight. In the last point, we have been passionately discussing, and I think that we have all finally agreed on this in the case of cursarbeit, that it has not been properly discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and even some government Members have called for it to be properly discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, because this is, after all, the work task of this constitutional institution, which is a sovereign over the Czech government, and we should all do our jobs. Finally, after two breaks from the coalition parties, the majority of the House decided that it did not want to fulfil its constitutional obligations and that it would fulfil some of the tasks that were expressed by someone above this House. There is no such person from the Constitution of the Czech Republic, but it actually exists here, and so I'm moving on... Ambassador Hájek, I know you used to scream at the bani, but I'd be grateful if I didn't have to do it here. So I'm going over to this point freely. While we didn't properly discuss the last point, and we still voted it out, this point... Ambassador Blažek, would you please stop talking to that person out loud?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u49	Only through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u50	By your means, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u51	I'm gonna ask you to continue your speech. I'll ask the Members to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u52	It's always coming from the one. I always think of the sheaves in the fields, where the headlines were "don't let the packers rule." Then I see Babiš peeing on Facebook and then I see Mr. Hájek and I wonder what you were going to say. It was just an intermezzo in response to what he's doing here. One more time. This is a loose transition to this point, which has been properly discussed. He was properly discussed in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, he was properly discussed in the Guarantee Committee, and although he had been discussed with very clear conclusions, at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies it was all different at once. Something above the House has decided otherwise. That the House will not decide it as a souvren, but it will decide something there. It is simply clear from the previous and current point that, regardless of how the Chamber of Deputies acts, what processes and mechanisms, and no matter what conclusions are drawn in its bodies, the agreement of the leaders of the KSČM coalition, the people's, social democracy and the ANO movement will ultimately decide. To be absolutely specific, eventually, the Communists will decide across these four political parties, where they are omnipresent. Given that this is not an institutional but significant factual change in the political scene and the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, please, colleagues, please let us think about it and please give us a 20-minute break for a meeting of the MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u53	Okay. In that case, I am declaring a 20-minute break, i.e. until 13:00 p.m. when the lunch break is over. In that case, we will continue the programme at 14.30, and I am interrupting this point. The Organizing Committee, yes, thank you for the comment, the Organizing Committee will meet in five minutes as usual. The meeting of the Organizing Committee will continue in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-003-111.u54	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. It is 2:30 p.m. and the lunch hour has ended at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. We will continue our negotiations. First let me read the apologies. Mr Jiří Junek apologizes for personal reasons for this afternoon's meeting, Mr Jeroným Tejc apologizes at today's meeting in the afternoon due to the participation in the Senate plenary session on Parliamentary Press 181. Furthermore, Mrs Lorencová has been apologizing since 14:30 on account of the doctor's visit and Mr Jiří Zlatuška apologizes today and tomorrow within 16 hours for reasons of work. We will now consider item 10. It's a fixed point, which is
