ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, and some other laws /house print 400/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the Prime Minister, Bohuslav Sobotka, will present the proposal. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, let me present here the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on Intelligence, its main objectives and benefits. This proposal was prepared by the Security Information Service in cooperation with the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence and was also consulted by the Ministry of Finance. We have prepared the amendment in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan for 2014. The first public version was mentioned in September last year. This is not, therefore, a hasty attempt to respond to current events, which are characterised, among other things, by the increasing number of terrorist attacks and the worsening of the external security situation around the European Union, but is a strategic step that follows the long-term needs of practice. The aim of the draft law is to enable the reporting services of the Czech Republic to have access to the following data for the purposes of carrying out their tasks legally: data held by the General Financial Directorate, data stored by banks and credit unions, and data publicly available in the databases of all participants. [[16.30 hours]] In the case of employees of the General Financial Directorate, we propose to break the confidentiality of tax administrators towards intelligence services. At the same time, intelligence services are excluded from the obligation to remain silent under the tax rules for the purposes of appropriate legal use of this information. The public interest in effective tax collection will continue to be protected by the fact that the General Financial Directorate may refuse to comply with the request of the intelligence service for information if this information could lead to a breach of the proper performance of the tax administration. Furthermore, we propose in the Bank Act to abolish restrictions that narrow the authorisation of intelligence services to obtain data protected by banking secrecy only for cases relating to terrorist financing. The aim of the proposed provision is for intelligence services to be able to obtain these data even where it is generally directed against the security and economic interests of the Czech Republic. In order to carry out their tasks, intelligence services also need to acquire knowledge of the flow of funds for persons involved in national and transnational organised crime structures to ensure information on the legalisation of crime proceeds through the activities of business companies, associations and other similar companies involved in organised crime structures. Furthermore, for the purpose of detecting corruption for public sector actors, which provide for acts falling within their competence for the organised structures to which they are part. Finally, they also need this information to ensure information about persons known as supporters and spreaders of the radical concept of Islam and whose activities are probably financed from the proceeds of organised crime. I would like to stress that this list of situations that I have said and where intelligence needs to achieve bilateral communication with financial institutions is based on real cases from our past. In terms of protecting important economic interests, the ability to identify and verify the origin of funds, i.e. who is actually hiding behind the officially presented entity, is unfortunately often planted. Therefore, it is also necessary to have factual information on where funds flow through unclear property ratios, whom these opaque companies and groups actually finance. This is a similar principle as in the case of the requirements of banking institutions towards clients in the provision of loans. This is also important because of the fight against terrorism, against its illegal financing. Verification of financial transfers in specific bank accounts has also been the subject of cooperation with foreign partner services several times. As part of this cooperation, the Czech partner intelligence service was unable to provide more than very general information. Our intelligence services need comparable powers as German, Italian, Slovak or French. A comparison of legislation in these countries is also described in the explanatory memorandum of this law. The last important modification proposed is that it is clearly stipulated that the intelligence services are authorised under the Electronic Communications Act to request data from the databases of participants publicly available telephone services from providers of this service. The authorisation of intelligence services to require and obtain such data is important for the performance of their legal tasks, in particular for the effective use of other legal authorisations. Today, the intelligence services will get the contents of the call, the telephone number of the station, but they won't be able to identify the owner of the telephone station. The missing information must then be obtained in another way, more costly and uncertain way. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Intelligence Act is to increase the protection of the state and its citizens from the efforts of individuals or organised groups to commit or to seek support for crime. I would also like to add at this point that this is only one part of the legislative changes planned in the field of intelligence. It is clear - and the government is reporting this - that powers, and especially in situations where there is an increase in powers, must also be balanced by control. The Government's programming statement envisages a new concept of intelligence control, which should be a two-stage new one, with a new civil control body derived from Parliament being set up. Here, too, we will proceed in a way that emerges from existing practice and reflects the existing similar adjustments that exist in the countries of the European Union. The Government should discuss the substantive intention of the Act on the scope and method of monitoring of intelligence services of the Czech Republic by Parliament of the Czech Republic in the second half of this year, namely in the Government's legislative work plan for this year, the deadline for discussing this proposal is set for September 2015. The government is naturally prepared to consult this proposal at the stage of its legislative preparation not only with representatives of the parties to the government coalition, but also with representatives of the parties to the parliamentary opposition, so that at least an elementary political consensus is reached at the stage of the preparation of this new proposal on what the new architecture of our security services should look like. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask for the support of this proposal, so that it can be referred to further discussions on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. I now ask the rapporteur, to whom Mr Zdeněk Bezecný was designated for first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by the Intelligence Act responds to the current changing security situation. According to the reference report, it is intended to assist the intelligence services to obtain information in particular in the area of combating terrorism and protecting the economic interests of the State. The amendment will break the confidentiality of tax administration. The Intelligence Service will be able to request tax management information from the General Financial Directorate. In addition, intelligence services shall be able to request client data from telecommunications operators in such a way that they are able to identify the owner of the telephone station or the subscriber's telephone number. In the event of a breach of banking secrecy which, with the permission of the judge, is permitted by the current legislation, the restriction shall be removed only in cases relating to the financing of terrorism. In addition, intelligence services will also be able to request data from savings and credit cooperatives. The amendment significantly increases the powers of intelligence services. In the field of their control, the Act adds only the obligation to inform in the activity report of the number of cases of tax and banking secrecy, indicating the various fields of intelligence. The government must also forward the same information once a year to the authorities of the Chamber of Deputies designated for the control of intelligence services. [[16.40 hours]] We will certainly have a debate over the proposed amendment, whose main motive may be to seek a balanced situation between the security of citizens and respect for their rights and freedoms. The issue of strengthening the control of intelligence activities, which we find among government priorities, is undoubtedly an important moment. It would be logical if its solution were accompanied by a proposal to increase the powers of services. I recommend the proposed bill to proceed to second reading and order it to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. First up, I have Mrs Černochová's application with the club's position. But you're the first, Madame. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the rapporteur has already said, we have discussed this intention for the Security Committee even during the previous parliamentary term. At the time it was a committee on defence and security, it was a bill submitted by the Nečasův government, and on this bill there was, in my view, quite rightly political agreement across the political spectrum. Where our security situation, the security situation of the whole of Europe, not only the Czech Republic, has moved, confirms me that it is right that this proposal is here in such a timely manner. I would only like to respond to the Prime Minister's words that the duty of control, some standard that will be proposed and which, in addition to the fact that we are now providing some kind of security information service authorization, must be increased for that, of course. I'm a little concerned about the deadline of September 2015. I would like very much to ask, Prime Minister, if this could not be met at, say, a third reading. If we give a second reading to the Security Committee, maybe the Defence Committee will also be interested in doing so. Before the final vote, I would very much like us to have a clear idea of how those authorisations, which are really unprecedentedly high, will be controlled by the way we do these services, because they are not being abused. I also agree that the idea of an institution derived from Parliament should also be discussed with the opposition. Thank you for the suggestion. When we were in position, we also discussed this with the opposition, and, as I said a little while ago, thank you for putting forward, Prime Minister, the proposal of the Nečas government, which approved the committee, but unfortunately, our government fell, so it was not possible to discuss it in 2013 in July, and it is here today. At the same time, once again, I call for parliamentary control, the debate on this control, not until September, but perhaps before the holidays, at least in the first round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u7	Thank you, colleague. I'll read two more apologies. Mr Chalupa apologizes today between 17.45 and 19.15 for reasons of work and Mr Urban apologizes for today's meeting from 16.30 to the end of the negotiations. Mrs Nováková from 17.30 to the end of the negotiations, so it was three apologies. I will ask who else is reporting to the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. Let me ask - the Prime Minister is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u8	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, not that I would like to say another long final word, but I would like to respond both to the rapporteur's speech and to Mrs Černochová, and I would like to say clearly that I am prepared first of all to speed up the work on the preparation of the draft law, which is so far announced in the Government's legislative plan for September, that is the first point. Second point. Once I have a substantive intention on the table to define the way in which we would generate new control and how we would create a second level of civil control, I would like to call a working group, initiate a working group in which all the parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies should have their experts, so that we can agree on the basis of this working group, whether this is the path we should take to ensure that, at the moment when we are about to prepare a paragrafo version, we have elementary assurance that this concept will not be rejected on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. So, at the moment that I have my first proposal on the table, I would ask all the clubs in the Chamber of Deputies to send their experts to the meeting, and at the same time, if we can agree during the spring of this year, then I think we are able to speed up the work on the bill, so that they arrive at the Chamber of Deputies as soon as possible. I offer communication, I offer cooperation. I think that the question first of all, the competence of intelligence services, the question second of controlling intelligence services is something where there should be an elementary consensus across the political spectrum, because these rules should not change after every election, and it is logical that in this regard the government has used material that has already been prepared in the past, and therefore it also precedes the second document concerning the control of services, because no such material has yet been prepared there. We will now be preparing it together, and I hope that we will be able to open this matter on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies before it was originally announced. But these are things where we should be looking for the maximum possible degree of agreement, if at least a little bit possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. On behalf of the President of the ODS Membership with priority rights, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his words, and I would also like to ask because we have also spoken with Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Defence, Kádner, in the meantime, that we really think that intelligence is not just a matter for the Security Committee, because we also have other intelligence services, intelligence, counter-intelligence, in defence. I do not question the fact that the Committee on Security should become a guarantee committee, but I would like to ask the honourable colleagues and colleagues to ask that the next committee to which this press would be assigned be the Committee on Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u11	Okay. I'm going to ask the rapporteur if he still wants to apply the final word. He doesn't want to. In that case, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. So first, we'll set up a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee proposes ordering a motion to discuss the Security Committee, so I suggest we order a bill to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. No one objects to this or suggests anything else. I'll ring the bell. We will vote on the commandment to the guarantee committee and, therefore, the Security Committee. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 32, registered 160, for 141, against 1, the proposal was adopted. We set up the Security Committee with the guarantee committee, and we ordered the press to do so. The motion for a commandment to the next committee is not here from the Organising Committee, and my colleague Černochová proposes a defence committee. I'll ask if there's another suggestion. It's not like that. [[Voice from the O.R.: It is.]] Co-worker of Votava, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think the budget committee could get it, it's about the banking sector. I propose a budget committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-016-013.u13	There are proposals on the commandments of the Defence Committee and the Committee on Budgets. So, first of all, we will vote on the Commandment of the Defence Committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 33, registered is 161, for 146, against no one, the proposal has been adopted. We will now vote on the commandment of the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 34, registered is 162, for 109, against 3, this proposal has also been adopted. I note that we have further ordered the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Budgets to be discussed. There was nothing else in the debate that we could vote on, so we have exhausted this point and I am ending the discussion. [[16.50 hours]] Let's continue with the point.
