ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-26-ps2013-028-01-000-000.u1	[[The president is ringing the bell to calm the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 28th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. Last week, I received this new bell from my colleague, President of the German Bundestag, so we will use it if necessary. The meeting was convened pursuant to Section 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Friday, May 22. I'm asking everyone to sign up with their ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. My colleague Jermanová - replacement card number 17. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Gabriela Pecková and Mrs Marta Semelová. Mr. Šincl has card number 20. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not, so we're going to vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees to make Mrs Pecková and Mrs Semelová the verifiers of this meeting, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 1, registered is 166, for 160, versus no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we have designated Mrs Pecková and Mrs Semelová's verifiers. The Prime Minister has a replacement card number 54. I would like to inform you that, before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence: Mr Adam - health reasons, Vice-President Bartošek - foreign travel, Mr Brázdil - foreign travel, Mr Kádner - foreign travel, Mr Klučka - foreign travel, Mrs Strnadlová - personal reasons, Mr Vondrášek - health reasons, Mrs Zelienková - health reasons. Minister Zaorálek apologizes from the members of the government. So many apologies. Now there is nothing stopping us from complying with Article 72 (2) of the Treaty. 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic has agreed to discuss a single item on the agenda of the 28th meeting, which is
