ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain conditions of business and on the pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism and on the amendment of Act No. 40/1964 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Business Enterprise (Act of Business), as amended, as amended /German press 276/6 - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with an amendment. His resolution was delivered as House press 276/7. Welcome to Senator Ivo Valenta. I ask that Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, speak for the appellants for the Senate resolution and for the amendment tabled. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u3	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. I'm asking everyone to transfer their conversations to the foyer, and you to continue when the silence comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u4	Let me first summarize the entire legislative process of this amendment in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. On 14 October there was a meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee of the Senate of the Czech Republic, which adopted the resolution in which it proposes to return the present draft law to the Chamber of Deputies with an amendment. On 20 October the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment of the Senate of the Czech Republic was held, which adopted a resolution recommending the Senate to return this bill to the Chamber of Deputies with an amendment. The amendments of the two committees are identical in content. Two days later, 22 October 2015, the 13th meeting of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic took place, for which a resolution was adopted, in which the Senate returns the draft law to the Chamber of Deputies as amended by the amendment adopted. I would like to comment on the situation that occurred after discussing the draft law in the third reading by the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. In the introduction, I would like to mention that the aim of the amendment, which was prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development, is consumer protection. After the third reading, which was in September of this year, the Ministry received a notice of termination of insurance contracts, as well as information that insurance companies would not conclude new insurance contracts with travel agents and would not extend existing insurance contracts with travel agencies. I would just like to add that these are six insurance companies on our market. This step was taken by the insurance company for the valid wording of the Act interpreted by the Constitutional Court of 21 December 2005. 7. When the Constitutional Court confirmed that the passenger is entitled to the full reimbursement of the transferred funds regardless of the specified limit of the insurance provision. The Constitutional Court thus confirmed the necessity of the use of the EuroConform interpretation of Act No. 159/1999 Coll. None of the parliamentary proposals tabled at second reading would therefore address the situation. In the context of this situation, the Ministry immediately began to take appropriate steps to avoid the imminent danger of ending the economic activity of travel agencies, as compulsory insurance of the guarantee for bankruptcy is one of the necessary requirements for the licensed trade, so-called. operating a travel agency. As a result, it was in agreement with the wording of the amendment relating to the adjustment of the compulsory insurance guarantee in the event of the bankruptcy of the travel agency. Representatives of the Association of Insurance Companies, the Association of Travel Agencies, the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank agreed with this proposal. The amendment provides responsibility for both the travel agency and the insurance undertaking for the level of the premium payment limit. This means that the travel agency is always obliged to report to the insurance undertaking a change in the insurance risk. The amendment defines the extension of information obligations for travel agents to which administrative offences are imposed. Therefore, the Agency is obliged to maintain a level of insurance over the duration of the insurance, so that all legitimate customer claims are met in the event of an insurance event, but at the same time it may not sell any tour that would not be covered by bankruptcy insurance. The Ministry perceives the need to create a guarantee scheme, respectively. the fund, soon and within the framework of the implementation of the new European directive, which will be available over the next days and weeks. I would also like to say that the aim of the amendment is to regulate only the provisions of the law which currently require amendment. We will just present a more fundamental revision of the law by the end of 2017, when it must be effective within the framework of the implementation of the European directive. Finally, I would like to sum up the main objectives of this amendment, which include, above all, consumer protection in the event of the bankruptcy of a travel agent, bringing the law into line with the civil and trade law, as well as the elimination of fraudulent behaviour by a travel agency. I would like to ask you to approve the Senate proposal for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, Minister. I ask if Mrs Martina Berdychová, the rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, wishes to comment on the Senate's proposal. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u6	Mr President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, I support the adoption of this press, as amended by the Senate, because I see it as the only possible solution in the current situation, which will ensure that the activities of travel agencies are no longer threatened. The Senate proposal is a compromise that addresses the situation arising in the activities of travel agencies which insurance companies have ceased to insure against bankruptcy, or to conclude or extend concluded contracts. Travel agencies are in danger of having to put an end to their business. I just disagree with the wording in the explanatory memorandum concerning the statement that the law we adopted in the House does not comply with the Insurance Act and insurance companies are threatened with sanctions from the Czech National Bank. We have dealt with this amendment for a long time in the subcommittee on tourism. Representatives of the Czech National Bank have always been present for this discussion. I checked the facts today. The fact that the law is contrary to the Act on Insurance is not why insurance companies stopped insurance. Nevertheless, I agree with the adoption of this law as amended by the Senate amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u7	Thank you, Mrs Martina Berdychová. I ask if Mr Michal Kučera is still interested in the rapporteur of the Economic Committee. He's not interested in a word. I am therefore opening a debate in which Senator Ivo Valenta will be the first to speak. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u8	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, good evening, Minister, honourable Members. Let me thank you from this point, through the President, for the opportunity to speak here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I am pleased to present to you the draft tourism law in a form that is certainly a positive achievement for the citizens of this country, for the clients of all travel agencies who have lost their funds due to their collapse. [[17.40 hours]] This bill mistransmitted European law and, in the form in which it was approved by the Chamber of Deputies, put tourism business at risk. As the Minister has already said here, when I simplify it, my colleagues in the Senate and I sat at a table with representatives of the Ministry, travel agencies and insurance companies and tried to find and correct this unfortunate implementation. Although, personally, I am not a big fan of compromises, in this case, I believe that the compromise adopted by the Senate is a very successful legislative change. This is a simple modification of § 8 para. 2 of the bill, which introduces the so-called shared liability of insurance undertaking and travel agency for determining the correct amount of the limit of insurance benefits when arranging insurance. At the same time, this amendment reflects a fact that has already been mentioned here by the Minister, and I would like to repeat it because I consider it important, and that is the creation of a guarantee fund for travel agencies. All travel agents will contribute to this fund, which the Ministry has promised us to create within one year at the latest, with a certain percentage of their income. I would like to call on the Minister from this post to consider seriously that insurance companies will also contribute to the fund, because, according to the proposal of this amendment, it is their responsibility to keep a strict watch on the correct setting of the insurance limit. I would like to thank the Minister for the negotiations and the will to find this remedy. Tourism law is a highly regulated sector by European law, and the draft law that we have here translates the 1990 European directive. To be honest, I do not understand why we are doing this until now, but I would like to stand up for the Minister in this regard, because it should have been done long before this government came, and the Constitutional Court did not decide anything but in the spirit of European case-law, it was only a response to the lack of Czech legislation. Finally, in the context of what I have just said, allow me to warn in the future about similar incorrect, delayed or, on the contrary, hasty transpositions of the directives of European law. The headless adoption of European standards can seriously endanger the business sector. And it is clear from this case that frequent threats of urgent implementation are sometimes not quite appropriate, because, as you can see, there is no rush and it is worth considering all the circumstances, especially the risks of legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u9	Thank you to Senator Iv Valent. The President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura is now another member of the priority right. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So that it's not a full steak, so first of all, I want to say that our club will support the Senate version, and now I'm going to justify it. I will not join in thanking the Minister, because I am not a fan of the fact that the thief is calling to catch the thief or that the pyromaniac is a volunteer firefighter and puts out the fire that he himself set. We have the bill in the Chamber of Deputies for 16 months. Sixteen months, July 30, 2014, the government delivered this bill to us. The Senator has quite rightly said that the House version that has left here is a threat to tourism business. But it's somebody's fault! It didn't fall from the sky or from Brussels. And we have repeatedly performed at first reading, at second reading, at third reading, my colleague Jana Fischerová has prepared an amendment that, hand in hand, rejected the Minister, the rapporteur and Mr Okamura, because his business is not involved, so what would not tighten the conditions for others. That's what we talked about at the third reading. The Senate has quite rightly adopted the amendment, and I want to appreciate the work of the Senate. But if the government sometimes complains that the opposition is blocking something, that something is taking a long time, then this is Madam Secretary's fault. The law could have been passed today. It didn't have to be in the Chamber of Deputies again. All she had to do was give the truth to those voices she didn't hear in the House and the Senate. The only thing that changed is what we warned about was that you decided to impose a legal obligation on one private entity, but not against the State, but against another private entity. And how is he supposed to do that when the other group warned everyone ahead of time "we're just not gonna make those insurance contracts under these conditions"? We heard it here last time, and I could quote it from both the Minister and the rapporteur: that is not true, let us not be blackmailed, the insurance companies are wrong. And today we hear nice, beautiful words about how we found consensus at the round table in the Senate. We found this consensus because that party fulfilled what it said in advance: if you propose it like this, nothing will force us to enter into disadvantageous insurance contracts for ourselves. Among other things, they would violate their duty, as the regulator controls it, this is the Czech National Bank. So what consensus are we talking about here? Under pressure from the facts, the Minister had to - she had to support the compromise. I cannot imagine that it would be personally responsible for the fact that travel agencies, Czech travel agencies will have a problem and will not be able to continue to do business thanks to the decision of the state and the decision of the majority in the House. Not because they can't do it, not because they don't do something, but because you proposed to them, you many, not all of them, not all of the government, it wasn't a government versus opposition vote, that's what needs to be said, everyone can look both at the debate and at the vote, you just gave them the conditions that they couldn't meet. Let's not pretend we're all friends today, we all made a deal. It's lucky to get away with it, but now I don't care about the excuse for who was planning it at the Ministry. This is the Minister's political responsibility, no one else's. We have repeatedly pointed out this, even proposed a solution, and the Minister has repeatedly opposed it. I don't know what happened that a few dozen travel agencies were fired from their insurance policy. That's all that's happened since last time, otherwise the arguments are the same as last time, they're the same as last time, like in the first, second, third reading. I think it's a warning for all of us not to try to regulate everything and, above all, not to give an obligation to one private entity to provide for another private entity. I heard in the media today that it's consumer protection, because we put in the law what one private entity is supposed to send a month to another private entity. It's a principle I don't like. If we absolutely rightfully want insurance companies to assess their own risks and either sign or not sign an insurance contract, why do we have to tell the law that someone should send a monthly report? I mean, insurance companies can do it without the law. But, well, that's not gonna hurt anything, unlike the no-limit performance, I just think it's pointless. We're taking care of something that's none of our business. Nothing really. I'd quite like to hear from those who were here a few weeks ago so up against insurance companies and against the fact that we're setting a false alarm here, what happened, why they changed their minds and why they didn't listen to us for the first time. The law could have been in the Collection of Laws by now. Unfortunately, he's not there. I took my tablet with me, I'm not gonna quote yet, but I'm ready to quote from the tape of what anyone here said at the microphone. Unlike Mr. Senator, I think it's Madam Secretary's fault that we could have had this resolved a long time ago. All you had to do was listen to the opposition. And I'm sure we can agree that this isn't a typical right-wing confrontation. Or maybe it is because, in the vast majority of cases, the regulators are left on a political map, and we are opponents of regulation on the right, because we do not think that the state knows better than those who do, how they should do it and what the consequences are. But, let's face it, it sounded popular. How many times have we heard from that microphone from the secretary, and not just from her, so I don't keep talking about the secretary, but from the proponents of the novel: that's what we're doing for the clients. And when we told you: and it may also happen that Czech travel agencies simply disappear from the market due to a wrong bill, so you did not hear us. I want to thank the Senate as an institution for pulling the emergency brake here to get back to us on time. I am, and I'm certainly not the only one, received a request from both travel agencies to support it. I told them for our club that it would be very easy for us, we had that opinion from the start, so of course we will support it. But the next time that law took 16 months, please listen to us, because it's not the first time, and I'm afraid it's not the last time we were right, and you're just for politically prestigious reasons than to give the opposition the truth, so you're voting for your proposal. And then you fix it. Luckily, thanks to the Senate, we're gonna fix this in time and we don't have to make a novel and another novel and novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u11	Thank you to President Zbyněk Stanjur. Another duly registered member is Mr Ivan Gabal, who I do not see, so I cancel his application. The next duly signed is therefore Mrs Jana Fischerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u12	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I wish you all a pleasant evening, ladies and gentlemen. I will follow the words of our chair of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. He played the story, how it looks in the business environment, tourism, and I'll add a few more of my own observations. To begin with, I admit a conflict of interest. So we know that we are now nearing the end of the year. Most travel agencies have written contracts mostly by the end of the calendar year. And according to the letter of the law, and according to the contracts, six weeks before the end of the year, or their fixed-term contract, they have to be fired from their contractual partner, from their insurance company, some of the six. So that's what's happening these days. Because as long as it doesn't go through with the signature of the President, it's not a completely newly approved amendment to this law. And so, as many of us speak to entrepreneurs from different areas, I know that this amendment also brings to decent entrepreneurs more regulation in the field of tourism, other reports, other bureaucratic things, they unfortunately have already said: we will resign, we will do it all, just please, whatever it is, because now it's the end of the year, we already have catalogues, we already sell for next year, and if suddenly it happens that we won't be insured, so we really can't sell tours. Of course they can, but they'll already have sanctions, they'll have to come to the trades office properly, report the end of the tour sale. So that's where we're at right now. It's a good thing it's already been done. I want to thank the Senate, too, because I followed the whole procedure. And this is the only compromise, the only option at the moment, as I repeat, decent travel agents who have their history, their name, and insurance companies usually know them. There it really works in the relationship of the insurance company - the travel agency, that they have been partners for years, and even the individual insurers know their clients thoroughly, or they already know what they're getting into. And I've heard that most of the insurance is going to increase anyway, because they want a guarantee in tightening the rules, that it's all going to be mutually credible. We have in the market - not in the market, we have travel agencies that associate in two associations. Last time, through Mr President, Mr Tomio Okamura presented one of them, the associations, which is the Association of Czech Travel Agencies and Travel Agencies. He had a different opinion then than I did. I have now also received a letter from this association that they also agree in this view that we should adopt a compromise position, or an amendment to the Senate. And then the second, the Association of Travel Agencies of the Czech Republic, has been trying to fix the situation all along. So a situation other than that approved by the Chamber of Deputies in September of this year. There was also talk in the last reading, in the third reading, in the second reading about the possibility of bank guarantees. I don't want to go back to that, I just want to say that this isn't the best solution for insurance for travel agencies, especially for clients. So a better insurance system is a guarantee fund. That's what we've been talking about since the beginning of the whole amendment of this law, we've been saying: let's do it now, let's go. Insurance companies were also willing to contribute to this. So I'm glad if this is on the agenda of the day as if from tomorrow, or if the piece is already discussed in this direction, because it is really the most functional, best option of insurance and protection of clients from insolvency during the bankruptcy of travel agencies. So I repeat it again, it's the best way to ensure the protection of the client, especially if a guarantee fund is created. That's how it works in many states. I'm not gonna hold it up again, I've already said it here in my past performances. For those who have not had the opportunity to get acquainted with the proposal for an amendment and the refund, if I say so, from the Senate, this step will bring full compensation to the client in the event of the crash of the travel agency. The Minister said here that by 2017, we must adopt an amendment that is coming to us, a regulation of the European Commission which will govern tourism services and all related services. So this is still ahead of us and we should be there, but with all due care and attention, I think it is now, because this has already been done at European level, but it has not yet been published, but this has already been done. So it's best to discuss it, I'll say, tomorrow. Finally, I will say that the ODS club, as it has already fallen from the mouth of President Zbyněk Stanjura, will support the Senate proposal. And in this case, I am also very glad that on October 22nd, it was in addition to the two senators who voted against, five, I believe, delayed, so over 60 senators supported this. So I am expressing myself in favour of this consenting position. And thank you all for your attention. You were very kind to listen to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u13	I thank the Member for her contribution. Mr Václav Horáček, now with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In brief, I would just like to support the words of my colleague Stanjura. Because if we listened better, some Members from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development have drawn attention to this danger here. Petr Bendl was performing, I was performing. We said we had representatives of insurance companies and banks on the committee. That they made it clear to us that under what conditions they were willing to go or not to go anywhere. So she wasn't such a walk. Of course, if we listened to each other and enjoyed, as they say, common sense, we had the law approved. I'm also glad that the Senate took some sort of corrective action and put it back where we pointed out. But I think that if it wasn't just that someone from the opposition said it, we could have gone on, dealt with other laws, and this law could have been passed long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u15	I thank Mr Horáček. The last duly applied for is Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this proposal. I was listening here, it's a little different than what my previous speakers said, so we could stop politics. I supported the original proposal of the government amendment because it brings greater consumer protection and fair relations between travel agencies and insurance companies. The original draft amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies is in line with the judgments of the European Court of Justice, which say that Member States are to ensure that all the funds deposited are returned to the consumer in the event of the bankruptcy of the travel agency. It also complies with a completely new European Union Directive on package services, which was approved on 27. 10. 2015 after many years of European Parliament, we have a transposition. Last but not least, this proposal was also in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic of July this year. [[18.00 hours]] Of course, the final consequence of the adoption of the amendment must in no way be that travel agents are not able to continue their activities on the basis of the joint practice of insurance companies. I was assured by the Ministry of Regional Development that insurance companies will continue to provide insurance for bankruptcy and, if not, the Ministry of Regional Development may have an alternative option. However, the alternative was not prepared. The current critical situation points to the absolute imperfection of existing legislation, when travel agencies have a legal obligation to negotiate insurance guarantees in the event of bankruptcy, and on the other hand, there is no institute to make insurance companies offer this insurance product. So I agree that the only possible solution to the current situation here in Parliament is to agree with this Senate proposal, which I support, which should solve the unacceptable crisis situation on the travel agency market. My long-term goal is to promote more forms of provision for travel agencies, which is what we have been trying to work with the Ministry of Regional Development for many and many years, thus avoiding the monopoly position of insurance companies in the area of securing travel agencies in the event of bankruptcy and promoting equivalent business conditions in the tourism market. Thank you for your attention. And, of course, the Senate proposal, as I said, needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u17	Thank you, Mr Okamur. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u18	Thank you. In my second speech, I want to focus on the future, not on what was done, and here was the guarantee fund. I'd like to hear a schedule from the microphone today. I think within a year. Within a year, will this be approved or presented to the House? That's a big difference. Here's the bill we have 16 months. I would like to, because I consider this to be a good idea, if the Minister could at least give a framework idea of when it could go into a commentary procedure, when we in the Chamber of Deputies will get it into the government, so that we can seriously debate what the guarantee fund should look like, who should contribute to it, under what conditions it will draw from it. Because there's a danger here in general. We've been pointing that out, too. The moment you have the so-called Unlimited performance, so at the expense of the honest ones, we give an instrument to the dishonest ones who know that they may not meet the conditions, lure clients, collect theirs, and someone else will pay the damage. That's just immoral. And we should not contribute to such a process by creating a poorly set environment. The guarantee fund could contribute to this, to stability in this sector. So I would like to ask, nothing more than to ask the Minister, if she could, in her final words, just say some kind of framework idea, I don't want an exact date that it's going to be February 12th in the government or anything like that. But it turns out that those proposals that interfere with free enterprise, fortunately, do not easily go through the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate, and that we have to consider each regulation twice whether it is necessary or not. But if it's a tool on which both travel agencies, travel agencies and insurance companies agree, then why not, and then we're from creating legislation, not talking about three years again as a yeti, that a guarantee fund will be created and that it will be nice. And now I say, all of us. Now, don't think of it as an attack on someone, because, without a doubt, when it comes from the government, we're going to deal with it in detail in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u19	I thank Mr Stanjur. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. If that is not the case, I am done with the debate. I'm asking the secretary's final words. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u20	Mr President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for everything that has fallen. I would like to briefly comment on such key areas. Every time you get into the resort, there are some remains. This law, this amendment, was created on the MMR for five years. I don't know why. For example, I don't even know a lot of things, because I'm told there isn't an MMR archive because in 2002 it was washed down by a flood, virtually. flood. The law, as Mr Stanjura said, has been here since the summer of 2014 in order to really protect the consumer, with travel agencies having an information obligation against the MMR, so that insurance companies can set themselves different limits, etc. I'd just like to say here, and she's also a media shortcut to the novel here, the law or the amendment doesn't provide non-limity insurance. It's not without the limit, it's never without the limit, it's a little over the top here with the word, it's really not without the limit. I have to say, here we have a little bit of a mix of the objective of the law, which is consumer protection, putting the law together with the citizen and the trade law. However, I would like to remember here that from the beginning of the Czech Association of Insurance Companies, respectively. six insurance companies, both tourism associations were involved in all discussions and were still on the side of the Ministry of Regional Development and after the Constitutional Court judgment, which gave the client a certain travel agency and which was judged with a certain unnamed insurance company, essentially both associations put their hands away from our proposal. And at this point, I must say that yes, through Mr President, I would like to answer that, yes, I, as the statutory body of the Ministry for Regional Development, bear responsibility. I carry it, I accept it, and that is why we have tried to participate in the Senate proposal, because the amendment from the Senate is the only possible solution. I would really like to say frankly here, and since I am not protected by any immunity, or I am not protected by anything on this ground, I can, of course, speak only to a general extent. You know, tourism - what is it? We have a lot of travel agencies here, there are over 900 travel agencies in the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Regional Development has received a lot of announcements since the insurance companies have actually decided not to insure that the insurance companies have given out contracts or rather will not continue to insure. And I would only like to read you the reasons, for example, because here we also heard that most of the time it's just because there's an amendment to Law 159. I have here a package of letters that came to the Ministry of Regional Development from insurance companies, which are obliged to announce to us just when they stop insuranceing. I will only read you one such text of the letter, which states that - I quote - on the basis of a thorough analysis of the results of the management and of all historical connections associated with the company's manager, a certain travel agency is no longer insured by the insurance company. So it is also necessary for us to realize that the Amendment to Law 159 is not responsible for everything and insurance companies have the right to do so, and they have all the tools to evaluate the situation of travel agencies, their management, etc. I am very glad that we have agreed in the Senate that this amendment will pass, and since I personally am very unhappy about the whole situation of maintaining individual players on the market - because it is not a fight against insurance companies or travel agencies. This is about our people, this is about our people, who are just traveling abroad. And of course, our concern is for travel agencies to be insured. And if we now accept the Senate proposal, it is the only possible thing and essentially a state where we can, together, save the situation that has arisen. However, I would like to say here, and not even in the defense of the Ministry of Regional Development, but really to realise - we were listening. I have a lot of letters from the Czech Insurance Association, when they first tell us that they will insure, even the Czech Insurance Association six months ago or three quarters of a year ago, when even the government's first reading, virtually. The second reading of this law was postponed, because in order to buy more time, if we were to create a guarantee fund, because it could have been a long time ago, insurance companies refused, especially insurance companies refused to create a guarantee fund. We have it in writing, we have it in our minutes. That's when the Treasury refused. So the MMR had every effort to solve everything comprehensively. It's come to where we are. And, yes, I have all the responsibility, because I am the head of the department that makes this proposal, and I also perceive it, and I take it, because I have to. However, I would really like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to accept the amendment of the Senate. And here I would also like to respond through Mr President to Mr Stanjura's question about the guarantee fund. The guarantee fund - we were first told that it could not be created within three months, but we are actually dealing with whether to send this amendment 159 to the Government and to the Chamber of Deputies only in order to create a guarantee fund, if in a year you, the Chamber of Deputies, should receive it here, virtually. per year plus minus December or January, revision of this law in accordance with the new directives, with the new package travel directive. So we are currently assessing whether it will be a partial amendment or, which I think would be more appropriate to wait for the guarantee fund, which will be part of this amendment in implementing the European directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u21	Thank you. Mr. Senator's final word. Senator... He's not interested. So now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u22	So I say for us - let's not wait for a comprehensive amendment, for an amazing change of law to come. Because the more complicated the change it will be, the more complicated the material, the longer the discussion. And the Chamber of Deputies is running out of time, too. We've got 22 months in real life, if I'm counting well, roughly until the election. So putting forward some difficult bill next December is also a risk that it will not be able to complete the legislative process without knowing what will be there. You're gonna have to figure out the financial imbalance with the MMR. But I volunteered to mention another thing. We will be discussing in a moment - it was our proposal - important laws concerning the security and defence of our country. And we have heard a hundred times over the past two years on various occasions that the European Commission wants something, something we need to implement, or we are facing some kind of sanctions. And I think we have to say enough once. We're in an extremely difficult time. Instead of addressing the major problems of Europe and the Czech Republic, the European Commission is launching proceedings with us because of the poor implementation of driving licences, starting or threatening us, there will be no implementation of the insurance, this one. The latest idea is to ban weapons from those legally holding them. It is all bureaucratic things that, not just us, but all other national parliaments are holding up that burden. We're still scared. But we're afraid of ourselves. Who else makes up Brusel than 28 Member States? Well, I think we have to say enough for once! And we're telling the government, no matter how brave she is, she's confident she'll have the support of the opposition. To focus on the essentials. I know I'm a little distracted. But I hear, for the past two weeks, more intensively: we will defend Schengen more. But how, nobody says that anymore. And we say yes, that's good, we agree with the government. So I'm just gonna ask all the ministers and all of us not to be so afraid of bureaucratic things. Let's just move them. 'Cause if we didn't implement correctly or implement driver's licenses, it really doesn't matter! Only a bureaucrat in Brussels who has to justify his work to take his Brussels salary may be interested in this. Because for life and safety both in Europe and in the Czech Republic it doesn't matter. And I say it's over and over again, in one law after another. Look at how many points there are. We should do more important things. The Minister's answer is enough for me. I'm in favour of doing it with a special novel because we don't know what's gonna change again, some committee that makes up, what regulations, what guidelines. We're gonna make it up if we don't say that's enough. Because it really doesn't end. And then there's no time for important debates about matters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-002-002.u23	I thank Prime Minister Stanjur. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: the Chamber of Deputies agrees with the motion... Sorry, there's still an application for check-out. I hereby remove you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain conditions of business and on the pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism and on the amendment of Act No. 40/1964 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business entrepreneurship, as amended, as amended, pursuant to House Press 276/6, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 276/7.' I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 21, 149 Members and Members registered, for 143, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that we have given our consent to the bill as approved by the Senate. I thank the Minister and the Senator, and I end the negotiation of this law. The next item is:
