ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u1	45. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 418/ - first reading We discussed this House press on 27 May 2015 at the 27th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted it in the general debate and adjourned until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 781 from the 27th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore ask that the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, take the position of the rapporteur for the plaintiff. I want to ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to speak. The rapporteur takes his word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u2	No, I am putting off my speech the moment we start discussing that point, Mr President. But given that even unbiased observers refer to this point as the Double Support Act of Agrofert, I do not consider it possible for us to discuss it without the presence of the Finance Minister, who wrote it as an appropriate factory worker. So please let us interrupt or wait until the Minister of Finance arrives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u3	So I want to ask if I should consider this a procedural proposal in that case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u4	Of course. Chairman Faltýnek says he's coming for him. I don't know who, but we shouldn't deal with him before he comes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u5	In that case, given that Mr Faltýnek, the President of the club, was leaving with the fact that he would bring the Vice Prime Minister to the meeting on this point to take part in the hearing, in which case, if this is a procedural proposal, I can put him to a vote or I can call for a break. But if you want to vote on a procedural proposal... Is it okay if I call a break? That means I'm declaring a five-minute break. He's here. That is my right under the Rules of Procedure, which means that, given that the condition for the Vice Prime Minister to be present for the discussion of the item has been met, I think that there is nothing to prevent us from continuing the discussion. The rapporteur is therefore now reporting before the debate is opened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u6	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, given that we have interrupted this point, I will only briefly allow myself to revive the fact that we are discussing a law which we are workingly calling the Law on double public support for Agrofert. The first public aid takes place in the tax advantage of clean biofuels and what is scandalous about it is that the tax advantage concerns only the methyl ester of rape oil. We can have a lot of expert discussions on whether or not there are other clean biofuels that could also be used instead of so-called. a mera, but it will always be only an academic debate, as long as the amendment, which was applied to the House of Deputies, was not proposed by the Ministry of Finance until the amendment drafted by doktor Radmila Kleslová, was in force, but also by a social democrat who had established that the only methyl ester, the only pure biofuel that could benefit from tax, was the methyl ester of rape oil. All other methyl esters of this benefit are unable to achieve, so it is also difficult to determine in market conditions whether there is anything else, because anything else cannot compete, anything else does not have a tax advantage. Only the product of Babiš's technology has a tax advantage; no one else must have that tax advantage. That's the first public support. The second public aid concerns the compulsory incorporation resulting from the European Directive, 4,2 per cent biodiesel into petrol and 6 per cent biodiesel into diesel. The co-operation of these two public aids... or the fact that these two public aids had so far existed in the process was offset by the fact that they could subtract from each other. This means the more the distributor sold clean biofuels, the less he had to mix. So they really existed - because for a certain amount of fossil fuel sold, it is an obligation to sell a certain amount of biofuels - there really were distributors... When the Member Sklenák Parliament stops screaming, I will continue. Thank you. So there really were distributors who didn't have to mix into the fossil fuel at all because they sold so much pure biofuels that they had the obligation to do it under the first public support, and they didn't have to apply the other one anymore. [[17.10 hours]] The amendment that we have before us today reduces this option by 70 percent. In other words, no matter how much a distributor wants to sell clean biofuels, it still has an obligation to mix biodiesel, not 6 per cent, but at least 4.2% per litre, which logically has the consequence that while the pure biofuels business will run further, because it will be tax advantaged, affordable, so whether it sells, or does not sell any quantity of pure biofuels, it still has to add at least 4.2 per cent of biodiesel, which theoretically means - I stress theoretically, but the government is clearly counting on this in its material - up to a 70% increase in the mandatory collection of biodiesel compared to today's state, which the government probably did not expect in its material at a time when it encounters a competent counter-argument, even prefers and says: it is great, we will increase the compulsory collection of rape, we will increase by 14,000 jobs in rural areas. And the sick get better, the birds start singing, and the roses bloom when we can enforce the law when we increase the mandatory consumption of biofuels compared to today's state. This is not the case, of course, because first of all, 14,000 jobs are just an invention like a whole series of other inventions during the argument, because if rape is not grown there, something else will grow there. And if I'm wrong in this case, the aid can only continue until the end of 2020. The 14,000 jobs will then go to the street in the spirit of this government material. I am only talking about this because, as the discussions were going on, my opinion opponents often said that I am wrong when I say that this proposal, which we have on the table, proposes to increase the mandatory collection of biodiesel. If I wasn't right, it wouldn't be the government itself in the material we're discussing, and it didn't say how the number of jobs would increase by 14,000 in the country. It's a lie about a lie, a fictional invention, a purposeful argument for a single result - and the only result is the economic interest of Agrofert, which belongs to the finance minister who wrote the law, pushed through a commentary procedure, pushed through the government, where he charmed the Minister of Agriculture to the extent that he took it from him to translate it here on behalf of the government, not the processor who wrote it. However, it is an unprecedented conflict of interest, which simply does not know the history of modern democracy over the past 25 years. It is a scandal of such magnitude, against which all Jaňule and Peťule are merely minor episodes. This is the rape of democracy. This is the rape of freedom. This is arrogance and abuse of power, where it laughs too much in the face of voters and says: you chose me, you gave me my 18 percent, so now I have the right to your billions. And I don't blame the Treasury Secretary. koneckonců all, he went into the policy, which is why he invested in the founding of Agrofert's political division and that is why the political club is sitting here today. I don't understand coalition partners who not only tolerate it, but who support it. Because without them, abuse of power and this mockery would not be possible for citizens. I was hoping and thought that I would come forward here as press correspondent 417 to 418 and say that it is good that we already have only one amendment to the Consumer Tax Act in the House, because printing 417, as you will remember, has already been approved and sent to the Senate. And I'm sure you'll remember how the Minister of Finance tried to convince us that it wasn't one excise tax bill, that it was two excise tax laws. He said: we're not discussing biofuels right now, we're discussing the tobacco law, and we're not talking about biofuels until the 418 press. He's just one excise tax bill. There aren't two or three. There is only one, and it concerns the burden of excise duties on tobacco, alcohol and fuel, including biofuels. The government's making a bit of a fool of us trying to turn one law into two at least optically and tell one the tobacco law and tell the other the bill about biofuels. I heard something similar here about the budgetary determination of taxes, when some of our colleagues thought that one law of budgetary determination of taxes was for the regions and the other for the municipalities. No, there's only one tax bill, just like there's only one excise tax bill. And I was hoping we'd only have one more. It's not like that. If you look at the agenda for today's meeting, we already have another excise duty in the 512 Houses - guess what. Tobacco. Press 417 was about tobacco in order not to concern biofuels, press 418 is about biofuels and press 512 which we will discuss at first reading will be about tobacco change again. I want to ask the government if they're making fun of us and how much of an excise tax amendment they're gonna put on our desk in one year to always pretend it's some other law. This just doesn't have a precedent. No one's ever worked like this. It was polite here to submit one amendment to the Consumer Tax Act or VAT or anything in one year, but to amend the excise duty every two months? Do you really want to make fun of us like this? Let me tell you that just as you claimed that press 417 is a tobacco law and that biofuels do not belong there, even though Mr Rais was personally reading an amendment on biofuels, so the 417 was about fuels, alcohol and tobacco. Press 418 which we are discussing now and to which I am speaking is about fuels, alcohol and tobacco and printing 512 which we will discuss at first reading probably at the beginning of July, is, please, nicely, about fuels, alcohol and tobacco. It is foolish to believe that in press 512 we will not talk about biofuels, that we will not present amendments to biofuels there unless the Chamber of Deputies takes a rational position in press 418. It's just one excise tax law, and at least the rapporteur has a duty not to let you fool the public by claiming that it's law three. It's a pretty law, please. After all, with press 512 I will expect to see whether it will be presented by the Minister of Finance or by the Minister of Agriculture, because tobacco, as we know, is an agricultural crop and a smoking directive for the Czech Republic is being discussed in the European Union by the Minister of Agriculture, that is his competence. I will be anxious to see if in press 512, this is the next amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, Mr. Finance Minister, who owns the logic, or the Minister of Agriculture, to whom the 418 is based on the logic of Agrofert. We can wait for anything. [[17.20 hours]] So here we have two laws again, sorry, two amendments to one law. We are still in the first reading of the press 418 amendments to the Consumer Tax Act to wait for us next week for the first reading of the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act. That's how the government works. This is how the Minister of Finance works completely incompetent and personally involved. In 25 years, no one remembers such contempt for the Chamber of Deputies and this kind of work. And again, I understand the Minister of Finance. He takes care of Agrofert. He shows it every step of the way. The fact that they not only tolerate him, but that he is supported by coalition partners and that the white horse on the bench next to the rapporteur is made by the Minister of Agriculture from another political party, I cannot understand that. And allow me to show a slight contempt. 30. 6. Ends the programme, which was notified in 2009 until 30. 6. 2015. The chance of aligning domestic tax legislation with European Union law has been wasted in press discussion 417. It was wasted when the Chamber of Deputies voted on Mr Karel Rais's amendment to the ANO movement, which suggested that the tax aid for clean biofuels be terminated. If this amendment were to be accepted, it would actually be at 30. 6. Tax legislation of the Czech Republic copied the primary law of the European Union and we did not conflict with the rules of the European Union. Contrary to their public promise, contrary to what they said, the members of the YES voted against their fellow Member's proposal. Far more interesting was that, contrary to his public promise, the Minister of Finance voted differently than he publicly said about his Member's amendment. And when asked why he did so, he publicly lied about the expert opinion of his office. He said that, given that he had a neutral position on Mr Karel Rais's amendment, he had to abstain because he was sitting here for the Ministry of Finance. I will now look away from what most of us know that the neutral position of the Office does not mean an instruction or a request for the person concerned to abstain. The neutral position says, however you vote, you don't break professional principles, and it's at your discretion. But above all, the cardinal lie was that the position was neutral. We in the Committee on Budgets - Mr Volný, who looks intently at me, know as well as I do because he has the same written documents as a member of the Committee on Budgets, that this position was positive, that the Ministry of Finance expressed a favourable proposal with Mr Karel Rais's amendment, and that when the Minister of Finance said that the position of his office was neutral, he lied not only to the Chamber of Deputies but also to the public, and that nothing happened except that the Minister of Finance voted in favour of his private company in violation of his professional opinion and then publicly lied about that opinion in public. He didn't sit here as Secretary of Finance. He was sitting here as the owner of Agrofert defending the interests of Agrofert. He defended it very effectively because because this amendment was not adopted, so with 1. 7. which, colleagues, is in 14 days, the Czech Republic will receive an unauthorized public support scheme. From 1. 7. domestic legislation applies in tax legislation, albeit contrary to European Union rules. From 1. 7. the possibility of tax relief for clean biofuels will continue to apply contrary to what we have committed ourselves to within the European Union. If the government of the singles, ODS and Dawn were sitting here, my colleagues might forgive me, I would understand. But the government, which has the full mouth of the European Union, which in every third draft, is swaying the rules of the European Union and the need to respect commitments - a pity that the Foreign Minister is not here - so this government consciously - knowingly - decided to break the rules and commitments to the European Union for one reason only: for the profits of Agrofert. There's no other reason. From 1. 7. we are in breach of our commitments to the European Union. We're doing this consciously. You did so when you decided not to vote for Karel Rais's amendment from YES. And regardless of how this bill will be dealt with, from 1. 7. You are in breach of obligations - we are in breach of obligations, however I have tried to achieve a different outcome. [[with emphasis]] Caught together, hanged together. I also have Czech citizenship. We are all together breaking our commitments to the European Union so that Agrofert still has business to do. There's no other reason here. It's monstrous corruption on the air. It's abuse of power for the benefit of one private company. It is an abuse of the reputation of the Czech Republic against allies within the European Union. It is an abuse of everything in favour of one single thing - the profits of the Agrofert Group. You wonder if we'll ever say the agrosocialist government when you're acting like this? And you know it. Minister Jurečka, who notifies the program, knows well that 1. 7. we will find ourselves under an unauthorized public support scheme. And it's possible that in the reflex of my speech, he'll get off and say, "Well, a few months, nothing's gonna happen." It's the same as if he said, "Well, I've only been stealing for a while. Just don't break the rules. Not knowingly at all. And certainly not rules that threaten the state's prestige for the benefit of one private company. If this is what coalition cooperation is worth, I envy your stomach. I suggested rejecting this bill. I realise that it is necessary to try, probably in vain, but to try to bring the Czech rule of law into line with the rules of the European Union as quickly as possible, and therefore I dare withdraw my motion for rejection and submit a proposal to the petitioner for revision. I think the proposal deserves to be redesigned. Rework according to common sense, against the corrupt interests of Agrofert. And if it is revised in this spirit, we are prepared to approve it under Section 90. We are ready for constructive negotiations to process this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u7	Thank you. So now the general debate will continue. Mr Schwarz signed up for the floor first with the factual remark of Radim Fiala and then with priority rights. [[Mr Schwarz claims that the debate is not yet open.]] I have now opened the debate. I said that now we will continue the debate, there will be a factual point, and then there will be a priority right. So Mr. Fiala isn't here. You have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u8	Mr Vice-President, I don't know if I should thank you because my application was combat. But good afternoon, colleagues. I would, through the Vice-President, to the colleague, or to Mr Kalousek, because I am a terrible elegant against him, but I think I have the right today as Babišův's Rite-climber, he said it in Latin, I say it in Czech, to comment a little. I would ask you, colleague, if you really want to tell us something, then be kind enough to tell us something new. I think you should say something new than a month, or how long, to listen to things I don't understand. I've learned them. And I'd like to warn you, and I'm serious now, I'm also an ordinary voter, right-wing voter, I voted for the ODS earlier, but if people in our republic were happy with the past over the years that you've been here, with politics, they would still vote for you and not have to vote for the Babiš, those who sit behind me, doing the political division of their companies, as you said, as you called it, because they'd be happy with you and they wouldn't make it to the House. But since people like me, like Babiš, went into politics to really try to make a difference, I think it should be a warning. Let's do this right, and in a little while there might be another side, because we're gonna do it wrong, but there's no way we can still be insulted, it can't be that I'm here to improve the company. I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u9	Thank you. Mr Fiedler, Mr Kalousek, is now making a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am simply going to turn away from the subject, but I am responding to what was said in the rapporteur's speech. It sounded here a while ago in the House. This meeting has 170 points. You've suggested today that we act longer, that the laws we're about to discuss are being gathered, which is true. We all know that. And we have also heard very precisely why - because one law, the law of excise taxes, you propose, a government coalition, four times. [[Three times!]] Three times. We've already discussed a novel about excise taxes that went through, where you turned down the tax on cut tobacco, then you suggested it yourself, now you're proposing it three times, so think about whether we're getting there, and that's true, until we start putting the law in front of us, so you have a big part in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u11	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Kalousek, after which, with a factual remark from Mr Bendl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u12	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President to Mr Deputy Club Rapporteur Schwarz. I realize that I have already repeated a number of arguments here, and I am doing this because I still cannot believe that you have understood them. Because they're conclusive, they're true. And I still believe, colleague, that we are both convinced that stealing is not only forbidden, but neither is it. And this is just a heist in broad daylight! But I will repeat those arguments until you tell me either the argument that I'm wrong or you say, no, we went out of YES to rob in broad daylight, and we think it can, it has, and after all, we have a mandate from our constituents to rob. In that case, I will understand that I have been understood, and I will stop repeating the arguments. Until then, they will try to explain it to you, because I will be convinced that repetition is the mother of wisdom. Because what you're doing here is just corruption and robbery in broad daylight. Just remember if you answered my question. You haven't refuted one of my arguments because he's not rebuttable. That's all there is to it. You just said to stop insulting you by telling the truth out loud. I have no choice because the current media in the Czech Republic, which are paralyzed, cannot tell the truth, so at least they must call it opposition. The truth is not offensive, colleague!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u13	Thank you. Now, with Mr Bendl's factual remark, Mr Chalupa will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u14	Thank you for the floor. I think that these things need to be repeated because we all believe that the answers to the questions that we have asked here will finally come up. For example, the material says, and maybe the Minister of Agriculture will explain to us that this bill will bring 14,000 jobs, but so far, and that could be new if we knew where they would come from, so if we did, and I repeat that, we know that rape will no longer fit in the Czech Republic, here it is, because it will not allow us to sow procedures, but we will need more, because we will just have to get it into fuel, so we will have to process it somewhere. Where do you need 14,000 jobs? Can anyone in the government tell me anything new or anything? Or the Minister of Agriculture or the Minister of Finance? Where are those jobs when it's more pressure to do it and the chance to process more without anyone asking us to do it in this form, how are we being presented? The European Union does not force us to do so. That could be the new thing we want to hear here. And we're still kind of bumping into it. So we're sorry we keep saying that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u15	Thank you. Mr Chalupa, Mr Kalousek, will now be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government. Mr Kalousek through Mr President, I will follow up on what Mr Schwarz said here. There's really no need to tell us again. We listened to it, we remember it, and it's pointless, it's stalling. And if we're talking about robberies, all you can do about it is go to the nearest police department in the Czech Republic and report a criminal report, because then it's just a rumor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u17	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark from Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u18	Thus, a robber who violates the law and steals something contrary to the law and is criminally prosecutable is much more honorable in this case than the abuser of his public authority and adjusts the law so that he can rob according to the law, and is therefore criminally unpunished. That's why I didn't say a crime, but I'm talking about a robbery in broad daylight, which you're knowingly committing, and I'm going to repeat it all the time, and I'm going to repeat it to the press again, 512 because this is a law in which you, if you understand it, deliberately support your president's enrichment at the expense of public budgets, at the expense of the Czech taxpayers. You're not doing anything. Until I felt that you had misunderstood, Mr Chalupa through the President, I was trying to explain it to you. Now all I'm going to do is repeat that you told me that you understood, and that you were doing this completely consciously, and it is my right to repeat it at every opportunity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u19	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Komárek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Czech folklore has a beautiful saying: Liars burned the house and no one believed it. So, through the President, dear Mr Kalousek, you can repeat your other lies indefinitely, but it is merely empty chatter. Nobody believes you anymore!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Šrámek and then Minister Jurečka are now duly enrolled in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, in addition to being a Member, I am also a farmer, or man, actually doing business in agriculture and food. I stress that I am not in any way connected with any company in the Agrofert Group or any other undertaking engaged in biofuels. I would like to emphasise this very clearly here and underline it so that it does not purposefully think of me as questioning someone. Nor do I deliberately grow rape, and I therefore believe that my view of the matter will be treated as impartial, pure and pragmatic. I am not growing beet because I am engaged in targeted animal production and production of dairy regional food, i.e. I keep cows and dairy cattle in general. The European Union established a mandatory incorporation of biofuels into fuel mixtures years ago, and we as a Member State of the Union accepted this and in 2009 this support was accepted in our Parliament. Entrepreneurs have emerged, who have invested their money, their capital completely rationally in this field, and new jobs have been created, as well as elsewhere, especially in neighbouring Germany. There was a demand for beets, and farmers began to grow it a little bit more. I am stressing a little bit more, because the area has not substantially - I am stressing - increased. A perfectly natural market principle and a rational approach. Moreover, it must be said for non-farmers that rape is an excellent intermediate crop, so it was also practically welcome as a good way of crop rotation, especially with cereals. In addition, there is about CZK 2,500 per metre for feeding wheat and up to 10,000 for rape. For a ton, sorry. I want to say here the main reason for the whole issue, which is most relevant and which de facto the whole problem so called. biofuels actually caused it. It may seem strange to some, but it is the animal production that has caused the dramatic decline in animal production in the last 20 years, to be more precise. Neither Minister Babiš nor President Kalousek have caused this, but it has been the agricultural policy of governments over the last 20 years. Moreover, since our accession to the European Union, our animal production has been deliberately and purposefully destroyed for the benefit of the plant in the interest of so-called plant production. 15 old EU countries. Let's put aside why. That's for a different discussion, but no less interesting. Farmers, therefore, after approval of the so-called biofuels welcomed the possibilities of a new business that was directly offered and was a partial substitute for constantly increasing and less profitable plant production with low commodity prices. It is mainly support for farmers, I repeat the Czech farmers of planters, who were not paid for animal production, because its support compared to our neighbors was absolutely incomparable and the herds of animals were literally destroyed as on a running belt. It's a little better today, because today's government is trying to straighten out these discrepancies and uncompetitiveness from previous governments, although in my way and speed, they could be far more powerful. This is a small challenge for the Minister of Agriculture. For example, the fact that green diesel was only approved for plant production and not animal production was a mistake. Unfortunately, it is the inertia of past governments, and it should be corrected very quickly, because it strongly suppresses the competitiveness of livestock production towards the surrounding countries. But thank God for the changes. So should we stop this support from one day at a time? Of course not, it would be another blow to our farmers. We need to work on a long-term strategy in this area, perhaps gradually reducing the aid intensity or increase, simply working on long-term visions that must be preferred to short-term political and economic interests. Our country has stopped planning for the long term. I am not referring to socialist planning right now, but to strategic planning in the name of national interests, support for industry and, above all, food self-sufficiency. We've been constantly moving from wall to wall in the last 20 years. Let us start thinking a little bit more forward in the horizon definitely longer than the parliamentary term and governments. Let us, in the interests of our entrepreneurs, of our employees and of all the citizens of our country, think strategically and plan. We are a small country, but full of very capable people, who, however, look only with amazement at the narrow particular interests of politicians elected only and only for four years. And after us change 180 degrees, often worse than the flood. Let's try it. That's why I personally went into politics. Let us all really think about the interests of this country as a whole, both on the right and on the left of the political spectrum. We support the whole Czech economy regardless of whether it is industry, services or agriculture. In doing so, let us look above all at what the surrounding countries are doing to ensure competitiveness - I repeat competitiveness - and do not keep saying: this cannot be done, the EU will not allow it. If there are guys who can argue clearly and hard for us in Brussels, often against the clear interests of the former 15 - everyone does it, let's do it too. Our competition is not de facto with us, but it is waiting outside the borders of our country and looking forward to our mistakes. Let's not do them, and if we do them, let's learn from them. But let's deal with them comprehensively, not on a personal basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u23	I thank Mr Pavel Šrámek. With a factual remark, President Stanjura and then Minister Jurečka, who has priority rights. But the President's point of order. Please, Prime Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u24	Really only factually, I will then sign up with a proper application for a general debate. Mr. Šrámek is actually complaining about himself. I didn't vote for green oil. You said ex-government. But you set it up, the green oil, again. So if it was misguided, don't say it was only in past governments, but also in your government. And speaking of which, let's remember what the Senate did when we sent two amendments of the same law to the Senate. The Senate decided that it was not in accordance with constitutional order, and poured it into an amendment. If you remember how it was, tobacco mixed with green diesel into a novel. And this time we have three novels, not two. So let's see what the senators are gonna do, if they're as principled as they were last time, because they had to solve the foul that happened here in discussing the reduced excise duty rate on diesel and petrol, and then they were principled that two amendments at the same time wouldn't - and this time there would be three. So I am quite looking forward to the opinion of the President of the Senate, Mr Štěch, who explained to us and the public on TV, that it is not that they are correcting a foul, but because they have to protect constitutional principles and one law is only to be changed once in a while. And at this point, we have three draft laws in progress, the House Press 417 has not yet passed the Senate, if I'm not mistaken, and we have two more at this meeting. But to be fair, if you want to criticize for the green oil of the former government, then criticize this government at the same time. You yourself voted in favour of this, what you criticized - I am telling you through the Vice-President. Then why didn't you use this argument at the time? Well, because you needed to do it very quickly, didn't you, and you often didn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Now with a proper application with priority rights, Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, beautiful good afternoon, or almost evening. I will say only briefly a few things that have been said here as obvious untruths, because if a attentive reader had read the draft amendment of the Consumer Tax Act submitted carefully, he could never have spoken them. I would just like to remind you that today we are mixing about 4 percent of biofuels into petrol and about 6 percent of methyl ester and rape oil into diesel. This amendment requires 2,9% of the European Commission's notification process to introduce biofuels into petrol on a mandatory basis, and 4.2 percent, so that it is deeply below what is already happening today. And actually, the change is that the European Commission is telling us: we want it in every liter, and not in a year. So obviously, we're not getting any higher values here at this point. And as for what has been said here that the aid that is now ending, after five years 100% of the aid ends and minimum taxation is introduced that applies only to the methyl ester of rape oil, that is simply not true. This applies, of course, to fuel mixtures such as B30, B100, which are methyl esters, and to all vegetable oils intended for the propulsion of engines, if they meet the relevant standard, the Czech national standard for fuels. Further on biogas, second generation biofuels, here it is even fully exempt from any excise duty, and further on the fuel E95 and the fuel E85, which are fuels that contain fermented alcohol without water, especially denatured, meeting fuel criteria. This means, obviously, we are talking about a much wider range of possible alternative biofuels that we can use in transport. This particular thing I mentioned here is mentioned in the relevant paragraphs, in the section of this Act No. 48 and section of Act No. 54. It is good to read it so that we know and talk specifically, factually and truthfully and do not manipulate facts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u27	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. I have two factual remarks from Mr Kalousek, but... I see, I see, yes, and then a colleague. prosit, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u28	The scale you have read, Minister through Mr President, is the same for the incorporation. Paragraph 43 (b) applies to the tax-fertilized net biofuels. (c) the excise tax law, and it is unfortunately talking about the methyl ester of rape oil, nothing else. But we may be able to clarify that in a professional discussion, perhaps when this law is at second reading. And you haven't answered two fundamental questions here. How did you admit completely consciously in the interest of Agrofert that in 14 days we would find ourselves at odds with the commitments we made towards the EU? We'll find out. You didn't answer that. And when you said the production of compulsory rape wouldn't increase, where the 14,000 jobs would be taken. I've been researching it, too. That's in your material, I didn't make it up, we're just gonna raise employment by 14 grand. In fact, on the contributions of these 14,000 employees, there is evidence of how advantageous this will be for the Czech Republic. So I was also wondering where that 14,000 would come from, given the way the current government is acting. I figured out one explainable way that it would just be necessary to hire 14,000 undercovers to keep an eye on whether or not someone's criticizing it. And whoever criticizes it, we'll punish him. And if you have another argument where we take 14,000 people, I would very much like to hear it, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u29	Thank you. Now the factual remark of Mr Pavel Šrámek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to President Stanjura. Yes, you're right. When we approved the green oil, it was done quickly. More or less, what used to apply was prolonged because the previous right-wing governments have completely abolished the green oil. So at least to get on with it as soon as possible, the old law has actually been re-established. That was a mistake. I think the support of green oil should be given to both planters and animals. And I will personally try to do that. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u31	Thank you. One more factual remark from Mr Kalousek. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u32	Thank you. Green oil, which is really distortion, is taken to tax evasion, but that's what we were thinking with green oil. So I ask Mr Stárek to note that there is a graduated reward. [[The President: Scratch.]] Šrámek that. Sorry. The greatest reward, the biggest wrench of 57 percent, returns at the moment it is used, not the scale that Minister Jurečka read, but when the methyl ester of rape oil is used. This is the biggest fiscal support we provide if we take out Church sausages, Penam or Babišův's MERO. Everything else has a much smaller reward. That's the kind of law you enforce here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I don't have an application for a debate right now. And I see the chairman of the ODS Club, Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u34	I've already announced it in that factual reminder, so I'm just reminding myself, thank you for giving me the floor. I have to get back to the debate. I think we're the fifth time on that point here today, and I expected Minister Jurečka to be the first to sign up, who promised me at the beginning of April that he would answer the questions I asked him, and I say they were specific and factual. And he's had four opportunities and four different days, and he hasn't done it once, and I don't know why. First of all, I would like to return to the speech of Mr. Faltýnek's Chairman of the ANO Parliamentary Club. Remember, last time he said he was going to be factual and he was looking forward to the expert debate, he lied here when he spoke about the vote in the European Parliament. I checked exactly. But, of course, if you pull something out of context from the middle of the vote and present it as a political party opinion, it might fit you in the store, but it's not true. So I'm going to try to go back to that and say what the current situation was, and that was up to 10 percent of the first generation biofuels. Our MEPs failed - I say unsuccessfully - to propose a reduction of 6 percent. And when it didn't go through and the vote was down to 7 percent, you're right, my colleagues supported it because seven is better than ten. I have written papers from the European Parliament. I'll hand them over to you. Your colleagues did not support the proposal for 6%, our MEPs did not support this proposal, and just six are better than seven and seven are better than ten. That's what I'm all about - that's the current situation. That wasn't voted on, that's the current situation. A reduction has been voted on. And I say, my colleagues from the successful European Parliamentary faction - I just point out that there are conservative colleagues, David Cameron won the election, the new Polish President was a member of the faction, so we simply did not convince both the European Socialist Party and the European People's Party of a greater reduction. One of the questions I asked Minister Jurečka in the very first debate was what position was in those negotiations - we agreed that the European Commission's proposal, which wanted to reduce it even to 5%, was protested by some states. Then there was some other proposal for 7 per cent, which the European Parliament finally pushed for in the vote. What position the Czech Republic has and what proposals the Minister of Agriculture will come up with and what percentage it will promote. The answer is a relentless silence to this day. It's been over two months. That's the only answer. Either the Minister is ashamed to say what his position is, I don't know why, or he doesn't have a position. That's a pretty simple explanation. But maybe I'm wrong, and today, the Minister in the debate - I keep saying in the debate so that I can still respond, not in the final word - will answer. You promised me, Minister. And I would remind you that these were really specific and factual questions. [[18.00 hours]] Then we talked here several times about the course of the current notification. Remember, last time a work proposal fell to interrupt this item until the end of the notification, the Minister proudly announced that the notification process had been successfully completed. You all remember. Then a friend called him on the phone and told him it wasn't entirely true. And the minister said, well, it's almost done, but you're right, it's not quite there yet. But since it's been a while since then, three or four weeks, I'm going to repeat the question, Minister: what's the status of today? I would ask whether a friend will call you on the phone now or in a moment to get the exact information, because if it isn't, it's rational for me to repeat the work proposal to stop discussing that point until the end of the notification process. When we were discussing press 417, I think it was President Faltýnek, if I'm wrong, I apologize to him - so heartily he was saying that if we didn't maintain the tax advantage, what impact it would have on public transport. And that those who oppose will be responsible for increasing the fare and increasing the costs of transport companies, České dráhy etc. And many really use pure biofuels. I ask the Minister of Agriculture why it limits the overall sum of the use of clean biofuels. I don't understand. This means that, while the measure proposed by the government is likely to continue to benefit companies for economic reasons, I understand this economically. If the law makes it possible, why wouldn't the transport companies do it? Saves a lot of money, that's all right. But at the same time, the share that they withdraw will not be included in the total share of the six or seven percent, which means that logically they must be incorporated into everything else, which logically increases the volume of incorporation, because the part that, for economic reasons - and that is one type of support, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek - will be pumped for economic reasons, and I understand this when the possibility is why someone would not draw. Who among us can also apply tax deductions. It's not mandatory, it's voluntary, if you deduct the mortgage interest, the pension insurance, the life insurance, etc. You don't have a duty, the law gives you an option, but every logical person does it when the law admits it. So if it is true - I am not agriculture - that we are unable to increase the production of rape, and there is no reason, the people of the agricultural committee have agreed on this across the political spectrum, and I will not engage in a debate about how good or bad rotational plans are and so, logically, it means that we are going to import it, because the incorporation obligation will increase in volume. [[unintelligible]] These may be jobs, but certainly not in the Czech Republic. Now I do not know exactly, perhaps the rapporteur would add to me whether it said that 14 jobs would be created in the Czech Republic or somewhere else. [[1000]] [[Note from the rapporteur and proposer's table: In the Czech countryside.]] In the Czech countryside. Well, that would really be worth explaining, Mr. Secretary. I consider it a fair and factual question. Someone's complaining that we're sometimes offensive or personal. From what I've said so far, I don't think there was anything offensive or material. It's just a simple three-piece for me - it just doesn't work here. I don't understand. Then it's really duplicated, and in reality we're not just going to meet the obligations that we have, but we're going to do a lot more. They will draw on this for economic reasons, but at the same time the amount of net biofuels collected cannot be fully used in the total sum, but only to a limited extent - I think 1.2 percent if memory does not deceive me, and for the second type 1.8 percent. For the fourth or fifth time, the Minister is silent and says: facts, facts. I want facts too. What's the notification process? What condition are we in? What position did the Czech Republic hold and will hold? I think that even those who advocated it, those so-called conservationists who saw only the benefits in the first generation biofuels and the critical voices - which were not created from experience - were forced to admit that this was not the right way. And unfortunately, we didn't get the answers, and I think the fifth time we're discussing this point in the first reading. On the other hand, he won't give it to me. The government, or at least KDU-ČSL, pretends that this is a big priority, that they want to discuss and negotiate that point, even tonight by midnight. What's the priority when we start at 5:00? Why didn't we start earlier so the debate could run correctly, we could ask questions. The Minister could have answered and we would have said: yes, that satisfied us, no, I have an additional question. Nothing like that. Minister Jurečka came to the House at 16.55, maybe at 16.50, to be sure. But then don't be mad, then the debate is really broken, and I have to remind the record of questions, those unanswered questions. And if you look into it on 8 April, the Minister has promised to answer me and has not yet done so in response to my first speech on this proposal - now it is only the second. Minister, I am asking you politely to answer these specific and factual questions and, accordingly, either to rejoin the debate or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u35	Thank you to ODS Chairman Zbyněk Stanjur. Now, the rapporteur's point of fact. Please, Mr rapporteur, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u36	The jobs that President Stanjura spoke of. Indeed, the material you are discussing, which some of you support, is talking about 14,000 jobs in the RIA study, which will bring this extraordinary and amazing program to the Czech countryside. That's how it says it. At the same time, Minister Jurečka says there will be no higher collection. So I would ask very much if the Minister would explain to us the contradiction between the statement and what is in the material. The collection will be as it is today, and it will bring 14,000 new jobs. You understand, Minister, that this is a complex explanation, but the Chamber of Deputies deserves an explanation. Either your material is wrong or you're not telling the truth. In any case, it's reason enough for you to rework the material so that it doesn't lie. That's the first question. The second question is why the government decided completely consciously from 1. 7. Break the rules to which the Czech Republic has committed itself within the European Union. You know it's from 1. 7. you will break, yet you will break them. And there's no other reason than Agrofert's interest. If there's any other reason, I'm asking for his message. In other words, where does 14,000 jobs come from when there is no withdrawal? And why are we going to break our commitments to the European Union from your subjective decision? The House deserves an answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u37	Thank you for almost keeping time. I have two applications for the debate. One with priority rights is Vice-President Petr Gazdík and after him a proper application by Mr Petr Bendl. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u38	I'll be brief. Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already had this debate here at the last part of this point, and I asked the Minister of Agriculture to explain why there could not be a methyl ester of higher fatty acids in Section 43 in general, why there must be a methyl ester of rape oil only. I very much welcome and thank the Minister for the fact that I subsequently learned in his reply that he was ready to discuss this matter, that we will have a professional discussion in committees and at second reading on this and that he is not opposed to a similar proposal and its adoption. Thank you for that, Minister. That's one thing. However, I still don't understand his speech today, when he said that second-generation biofuels, ethanol, and other untaxed things related to biofuels include. That's one thing. Second thing. The answer to the question in the House was not quite clear here, which was asked several times by both colleague Kalousek and colleague Stanjura. Please, and this concerns not only the Minister of Agriculture, but the entire government: why are we discussing one point three times? Why do we, as legislators, sway the rule of law with constant amendments that businesses have to prepare for? Could I really politely ask the Minister or anyone in the government, especially from the Government Legislative Council, why couldn't the matter be sent together in one proposal, or when discussing the proposals? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u39	Thank you, Vice-President Gazdík. I'll ask my colleague Bendl to be patient. In fact, President Faltýnek came forward. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u40	Thank you. Good afternoon. I am only through you, Mr President, to my colleague Stanjur. I have now looked into how specific it was when the European Parliament decided how much of this 10 percent is to be the first generation biofuels, because it wasn't really meant to be until he made the decision. It was 10 percent total, an obligation for all states. Parliament proposed 6, the Council proposed 7, there was some debate and the result of the debate and the subsequent vote was that only 28. 4. 2015 The European Parliament decided to confirm 10 per cent and out of 10 per cent 7 per cent of the first generation and indicatively 0.5 per cent of the second generation. So that's exactly what it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u41	I thank President Faltýnek for his time. The President of Zbyněk Stanjura will outrun his party colleague with a factual remark. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u42	Thank you. He actually repeated the same thing to President Faltýnek. If this was not determined, up to 10 per cent of the first generation biofuels could have been filled. And I repeated that we unsuccessfully pushed for 6 and were pushed for 7. If you'd said it neutrally like that, I wouldn't. Anyway... [[Mr. Faltynek speaking from the bench.]] No, no. No. You have accused us here of supporting a different policy in the European Parliament than in the Czech Parliament. And that's not true. That's why I leaned back and didn't call my boyfriend on the phone right away, I really had a meeting with my fellow MEPs, and we're doing it in detail to understand the process of preparing the material. [[unintelligible]] [[unintelligible]] And I've leaned back and opposed you saying that we support biofuels in Brussels. Well, we don't. We don't. You're in a faction that wants a federal Europe, we're not. You always say as proudly as you do: we are in that Euro-Deputy faction with the liberals. But you did not say in the Czech Republic that you support the federal organisation of Europe, as your factions advocate, or the faction that you are a member of in Brussels. It's like you guys are getting dirty around here. And I confessed that our faction failed to enforce. That's the only contradiction. The fact is the same. I didn't even question him in my first factual reminder. I was just reminding you that it is not true that we have a consistent policy at the level of Brussels and here in the Czech Parliament. Sometimes we get outvoted, that's just what happens. But you can't say - or you can, but we're going to replace ourselves, of course you have the right to say what you want, and even in the Chamber of Deputies, that's perfectly okay, but of course we're going to be replacing ourselves if you blame us for supporting biofuels in Brussels and maybe not here for purpose reasons. I haven't even said Agrofert at this point today, and I'm not gonna use that word. The questions - and the Minister isn't answering again. Then it's complicated. [[Chairman off microphone: It is logged in.]] I'm sorry, Minister. But if you had priority rights, you were already here, weren't you? And I didn't check in anymore. Because it was said that the next enrollment was Mr. Bendl and the priority right... I'm coming, I'm coming, I see, there's nothing red, I'm coming.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u43	Thank you. Yes, now Mr Petr Bendl and then Minister Jurečka, who has duly entered into the debate without exercising priority rights. So I will give my word to my colleague Bendl immediately. At least Minister Jurečka will be able to answer your questions, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u44	Thank you. Minister Jurečka has a friend on the phone, so he needs some time before someone calls or writes suggestions for answers to questions that were asked here two or three months ago. But that's normal. It's okay, he just doesn't have an argument right away, so someone writes, and then we kind of find out. [[He's laughing.]] By the way, I wonder how many times the Minister of Agriculture was at the DG AGRI meeting, and besides, of course, I'm also interested in the position he went there with, because I think we might all be interested, respectively. I hope that he was never missing, because he was almost not here, so perhaps in the European Union and in DG AGRI he should have the matter quite well loaded. I was inspired by my colleague Šrámek - am I correct? - when I agree with him here, and I agree with him here, when he said that it was necessary to encourage animal production, that animal production was in crisis for a long time and that it wasn't just dating back to 1989, it was already deep before 1989, because we were completely uncompetitive even then, for example in pork, it took us a long time, and only now last year and a half are we getting to numbers that are comparable, for example, in breeding piglets with advanced Europe. Only the last few years. We used to be totally uncompetitive. Some of the breeders here are talking to me, Mr. Faltýnek, but it's true. It is simply the last two or three years that some breeders have come to a level comparable to Europe, and it was not so far before 1989. Rather, it revealed some weak spots after 1989, and it didn't seem to have come out. At the moment we joined the European Union after that year 2004, we were given a great chance to write down the rules and try to determine in our priorities for the years 2007 to 2013 what is really important for the Czech Republic. I must remind you that the main designer of these rules, operational programmes and so on was the current European Commission, today Mrs Jourová, and that - and you must confirm this - it was clearly not among the priorities that it was animal production. It is the subject of criticism today across the agricultural spectrum throughout Europe that we are making farmers into non-food farmers instead of supporting farmers as food producers as far as possible. After all, that put us in the situation we are in today. Only the last two years maybe, and also because we couldn't change the support system because we had it set up for the years 2007 to 2013 and it wasn't possible to just turn the switches completely from side to side, but now we could do it this way. We could have, but I haven't noticed it yet. Minister Jurečka had that opportunity and he has it, but that we would somehow move the lever from promoting non-food production to producing food, I did not notice that. Except for the recipes the last government invented, there's nothing new that's important here. A strong argument is the disease fund that you maintain, and it is good because it is, say, directly based on the support of livestock production. Yes, the former government has set such support for the burden so that it pays more to behave cattle, so that there are more jobs in the countryside, because there have been - and I agree with you - a clear tendency that it is not possible to be angry with farmers, that they produce what they earn most. If the state sets it to pay the most for the rape, so logically we simply cannot say: dear farmer, come away from the rape, come to the fodder wheat. You described yourself here that it simply doesn't pay much for the farmer. But it is up to you now, and we will encourage you not to fix for years the future advantage of rape cultivation in the Czech Republic, but to fix the advantage for farmers to grow fodder wheat, to put it simply. And that's not happening. At this point, on the contrary, we are fixing for the Czech Republic to make this rape more and more and more for processors and the same for farmers, because it is necessary to tell farmers that they will make nothing of it. What farmers are criticizing is this 100 percent addition to the entire fuel itself, the expansion. They're extremely upset about that. [[18.20 hours]] Instead of supporting farmers as non-fooders, I would ask that we force the Minister of Agriculture to invent a system that would make the primary producers' costs cheaper, because it has to be logically reflected in food prices. And we won't have to invent pseudo-laws on permanent market power here, or whatever it's called, in an attempt to get some individuals' chains on the counters, but on the contrary, when we cut production as such, then competitiveness - and help first-timers reduce costs to the lowest possible level, they'll just get a better chance and they'll have a chance. Czech food really sells everything. I would expect the Minister of Agriculture to fight for it here at every opportunity. I haven't noticed anything like it yet. Rather, the Minister of Agriculture did not participate in the laws relating to agriculture as such, whether they were parliamentary proposals or even government proposals, when the Minister himself determined the time and the Chamber of Deputies said yes, let us discuss this law concerning the Department of Agriculture, and then the Minister of Agriculture apologized and represented him here by someone else. What's crucial to us is... and I hope we'll find out here that the Minister, I've given him enough time to answer the question of what position the Minister of Agriculture stood on DG AGRI to find it, or to be sent to him, to answer it. Just as he will tell us where to find new 14,000 jobs in the law that we now have before us and which he is supposed to bring such, I will say, a positive to the Czech Republic. Where there are 14,000 jobs, who it concerns, or when it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u45	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Now, Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka with a proper application for the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u46	Thank you. Perhaps to begin with, just for President Stanjura, through Mr President. I was duly excused today in the Chamber of Deputies from 11 o'clock, because I was at the meeting of the Scientific Council of the Research Institute for Plant Production in Ruzyn, and yesterday I was at the meeting of the EU Agriculture Ministers, so I was duly excused. The questions that have been raised here. I was taking notes. In the autumn of last year, we launched the process of notification of a multiannual plan for the use of biofuels in transport. The trial is over now. I have information that I've been informing here last time that DG Competition has closed the process, and we're due to expect official approval and official notification of this program by the end of the month. I apologized for what I said the other day because I checked. Maybe I'll ask you not so pejoratively and vilely - a friend on the phone. I have called my department director who is doing this, Mr. Galas, with whom I have consulted this information, which I consider to be quite normal when the possibility here is to verify these things, because the minister cannot wear and carry everything in his head. We could hardly speed this up in any way, because we were actually negotiating, and the process lasted so long with the European Commission, so now we will finally have it completed. That's why we can now at second reading, if we can get to it, solve these issues, because they've adjusted the specific rates that we're supposed to apply to high-percent fuels. As for the number of people, if you read the material carefully, we did not talk about the new 13 966 places in the material. We talked about the fact that there are about 8,360 people employed in the biofuels sector today, and if we were to get to the figures we had committed to as the Czech Republic seven years ago in 2020, that value would have increased by this, i.e. about 5,600 people, just in the biofuels sector, because whether it's biofuels of the first, second or third generation, it's just some people who are going to do it, the Research Institute of Agricultural Technology, which did this analysis, is somehow counting on them. What is our position in the European Union on biofuels? I have to say that during the entire meeting of the Agriculture Ministers, I had 60% participation last year as a minister, this year I was on four of the six councils that were going on, so I have to say that we have never dealt with this issue, because in terms of our agenda, these issues are resolved and discussed before 2010, when the limits were set. And the way in which the Czech Republic and each Member State occur is for each individual Member State to decide. Whether it decides to go the way of the first, second, third generation, whether it goes into electromobility, etc., is only up to the decision of this state. I would also like to say that we in the Czech Republic are looking for alternative sources of how to meet these commitments not only in the form of first generation biofuels. As part of our research, last year we approved in the framework of NAZV, last year and this year we started projects dealing with the use of CNG in agricultural technology and heavy transport technology. We started projects dealing with the use and cleaning of biogas from biogas stations. We are really trying to find other alternative sources. Research projects for waste recovery are also running here, e.g. Cardinal fats, etc. So these are the things that are going on, but unfortunately, here they are, we don't have hundreds of thousands of tons that we could now use in terms of biofuels in transport. It was said that high-percent biofuels are not included in the limit. It's not true. High-percent biofuels are now counted against the overall limit that has been discussed here. They're counting on the limit. If we now decide to meet this limit of 6 or 7 per cent, as the European Parliament is discussing, we are counting on high-percent biofuels. But we're far from on those values, and we're nowhere near them at that moment. On average, we fill somewhere around 5% overall, mandatory and high percent. Then I must say that materials on the use of biofuels in transport began to be prepared at the Ministry of Agriculture in 2013. It's not about Minister Jurečka or Minister Toman or any other government coming here, and these things have changed dramatically. That was still running for you, Minister. The director who worked there for you began to process this material. To Vice-President Gazdík - why it could not be merged. I answer, precisely because we knew that the notification process was still dragging us through the European Commission, and therefore we could not put it together with Press 417, which would still be here and would not be discussed, because we could not start second reading without the end of the notification, we knew that when we came to the House with this press. That's why it was separated. I think I've answered all the questions I've asked myself here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u47	Thank you, Minister. I have a series of three factual points. The first factual comment by Miroslav Kalousek, followed by colleague Bendl and colleague Stanjura. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I want to tell the Minister that I am very sorry, but the explanation for the numbers does not fit. That's just not true. We did the math. There are calculated impacts on public budgets: 9 billion. for agrobarons, of which the greatest agrobaron is Minister Babiš, on the one hand, and more than 12 billion. the benefits of 14 thousand jobs. You're counting on 14,000 new jobs, at least in fiscal benefits. Here, I would like to make a very good word for it - this is simple arithmetic - here I would very much like to make math graduation compulsory, after all, to the new minister. The argument you made here, Minister, is in direct conflict with the figures in your material, which in itself is sufficient reason to rework the material. I would like to point out that you have not answered the question of why, knowingly, members of the government coalition, including government ministers, have thrown the Czech Republic into an unauthorized public support scheme since 1. 7. 2015, even if you could prevent this from being adopted by the adoption of an amendment by Karel Rais. Why did you do this by breaking our commitments to the European Union in 14 days? You did that knowingly. You have consciously decided to abandon the commitments the Czech Republic has towards the European Union, because the profits of Agrofert are more important. I really want to know the answer to why you did it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u49	Thank you for keeping time this time. Now, my colleague Bendl has made a point of fact. In fact, Mr Fiedler was added. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u50	Thank you for the floor. I'm not happy with the answer either. I am certainly not satisfied with the fact that the Minister of Agriculture does not take part in its negotiations at almost every other Council of Agriculture Ministers in Europe. At a time when we are negotiating terms, and we all know that in Europe the issue of agriculture and the redistribution of huge amounts of money is quite crucial, and the ministers behind me know very well that if the State represents the Minister or the Deputy Minister, it is a significant difference at every Council of Ministers, and everyone looks at it significantly differently. Either the state representative is going there as a minister, or his deputy is going there, so it is not such a key issue. If they agree, and farmers pay lobbyists differently in the sense that they promote their interests logically in Europe, and they watch very well - and I remember the massage of the Agricultural Chamber, if I participate as Minister of Agriculture for European Affairs and so on. So today, the Agrarian Chamber is probably quiet about it, maybe it already has other information. However, the Minister of Agriculture obviously does not take much part in the debate on this issue. This I consider to be a foul of Czech agriculture. What are we even supposed to talk about here when the Minister of Agriculture has to ask someone on the phone about what's been being arranged there lately? What kind of priorities do we actually have here when we know what huge amounts of money we can or do not have to make use of in agriculture?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u51	Thank you. That was Mr Bendl's factual point. Now, Mr Fiedler and Mr Kalousek's other comment, also factual. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u52	Okay, thank you. So, factually speaking, then. I would just like to assure you, Minister through the President, you said here that it is 13 966, I suspect, jobs. So if it's such an exact figure, I assume that such a precise figure has been made by some precise study or by some precise calculation. If we could finally get to know this place. Then I also understood that it wasn't actually the 13 966, but it was 5 966. So, a nice government coalition when it suits you, so as far as taxes are concerned, the fact that you're saying that you're not raising taxes, as has already been voted out in another law, that those taxes should have fallen, and you've canceled it, so you're saying that you didn't raise them, but you've basically changed the situation. So when it suits you, the condition doesn't continue, and when it suits you, it goes on. That's fantastic. And really, I'm joining my previous speakers, I'd like to hear the answer to how it is with you admitting that from 1. 7. we are contrary to the rights of the European Union. That's what you're all avoiding here, this question has been raised several times, it's kept silent on her repeatedly. I'll be back, I've got half a minute, 13 966. I'd like us to have the materials at our disposal so we can take a look at it, if it's such an accurate figure. I'm sure she wasn't sucked out of her finger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u53	Thank you and remind you that factual remarks serve to respond to the performance, not to compensate for the performance. No one is enrolled in the debate, you can use your normal speeches. But please give a factual comment from the rapporteur, Miroslav Kalousek. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u54	Yes, Mr President. I want to respond to Mr Bendl, and I want to stand up for Minister Jurečka in this case. In general, Mr Bendl is of course right that the participation of the Deputy Minister or the participation of the Minister means a completely different weight and prestige at the Councils of the European Union. But my friends and former colleagues in the European Commission have told me many times that in the case of the Czech Minister of Agriculture today, it does not really matter. At the same time, I would like to ask the Minister to really answer why you chose to knowingly ignore our commitments to the European Union. I offered one answer here. Agrofert's profits are more important to members of the government coalition than the commitments of the Czech Republic to the European Union. That is the only understandable answer that has been made here. If you do not agree with it, please offer an alternative to the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u55	I also thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek for his time on the point of fact. And now for Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's proper application in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u56	The English proverb He who waits will see. I've been waiting a long time for those answers, and I've been partially waiting. And to make it very clear: I, Minister, understand from your answer that you and the government have no position on the issue of tax advantages and the use of biofuels. You said it was already 2009, 2010 and we're not doing it at all. I got it right. Then I was amazed by your response to the clean biofuels. And I'm gonna ask you again to understand. Does your answer mean that we can only fulfill this overall obligation if we want to, I'm not saying that we have to, just by using clean biofuels? You said it was not limited in any way, that clean biofuels could be counted in any way. I don't think so. That it's not true. But maybe I get it wrong, which is why I'm asking just in case. [[Minister Jurečka answers from the news desk off the microphone.]] No, you said in those clean biofuels that we can use them as we need to go all the way up to that volume. And I feel that three ministries, the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance were involved in that law. [[From the right side of the hall: A Agrofert!]] And in part three--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u57	I beg you not to shout.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u58	- the amendment to the Act on Air Protection, is written by me. in the material in the Houses of Print 418. Paragraph 2 of Section 19 (b) is replaced by the 2: The reason for the proposed change is to limit - I say, contrary to what Minister Jurečka says - the possibility of fuel suppliers fulfilling their obligation under paragraph 2. 1 introduction of pure biofuels or mixed fuel for free tax circulation in the tax territory of the Czech Republic for transport purposes or delivery of pure biofuels or mixed fuel which has been put into free tax circulation in another Member State of the European Union, in the tax territory of the Czech Republic. You also write in the explanatory memorandum: Based on experience, it has been identified that excessive use of these fuels - i.e. clean biofuels - the excessive use of these biofuels leads to a distortion of the fuel market, where a substantial part of the normal fuel, which should contain a smaller part of the bio-component, does not contain this bio-folder. I agree that this leads to market distortions. But how did you react to Mr Rais's amendment to the market distortion that he proposed to remove? You were against it. Well, that's a contradiction between the two prints. And it's your material, it's not opposition material. You also write in the explanatory note to this point: Since "biofuels" intended for use, offered for sale or used for engine propulsion, are exempt from excise duty - which is true - while the normal fuel containing a certain amount of the bio-component is subject to excise duty - which is again true - comes by the state of excise duty described in the procedure described above, which would have to be paid by the fuel supplier in case the obligation would have been fulfilled by means of normal fuels containing a bio-fold in volume according to the ČSN-EN standards. And I agree with that. But again, a contradiction. You in one material, at paragraph 417, said how important it is to maintain tax discounts. And here, and it's probably from the Department of the Environment workshop, you're writing to the Minister of the Environment that it's wrong, that it deforms the market and that the state is losing its excise duty. [[unintelligible]] [[18.40 hours]] That's true, but you can't say both at the same time. At the same time, you cannot support tax relief and at the same time say in another law that the tax relief is wrong. You can, as we see and read it. I would therefore be interested in the position of the Minister of the Environment. I wasn't looking at the sytine, as voted in favour of tax relief for biofuels. Probably against Mr Rais's proposal, but I really didn't check it. But you, Minister, are writing something completely different. You're fighting against it in this material. So I'd like to know the current position of your ministry and you as Minister of the Environment. Is that a good thing or a bad thing? Does it deform the market, or does it not deform the market? Is the excise duty going down or is it not? Is your vote in the House Press 417 valid - now I mean the political club, I don't mean you personally, because I really don't know and there was no reason to control it - or does the material that your ministry was probably planning because it's a law on air change and protection? I would like to know that, and I would like the Minister of the Environment to answer me, and then, if necessary, I would continue to ask further questions. I would like to clarify from the Minister of Agriculture whether, therefore, we can comply with the entire obligation to comply with clean biofuels or not. I understand from your answer that we can, but I believe we can't. Then I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u59	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur, for the last time entered into the debate, I have no other application. If I don't see anyone from around here... I see Mr. Petr Bendl with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u60	I really wanted to ask the Minister of Agriculture to stop playing mute Bobš and answer specific questions. We asked here about three times that he said in the material that 14,000 jobs would be added, it's black and white, we want to know where, in what context, what it would actually cause. Answer zero. Please, Minister, I do not know what is necessary to do about this, if you would not answer this question. And I'll add one more to remind her. Because it was not only a contradiction of the Ministry of Environment's material, which did not recommend a given issue, which was named here by colleague Stanjura, but also by the Ministry of Agriculture. When the material went to the government, it had a major disagreement in its materials, which the Minister of Agriculture then changed as a fundamental agreement to the government. And we asked where it came from and why, what happened so important that the major disagreement of the Ministry of Agriculture in official materials became a fundamental agreement. What led the Minister of Agriculture to change his mind all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u61	I thank Mr Bendl for his point of view and Mr Kalousek's point of view. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u62	Again, please respond to Mr Bendl. It is not only a discussion of the dramatic change of opinion of Minister Jurečka against the submitted material, it has been mentioned many times, but it is also interesting to look into the commentary procedure on the transport programme, when the Ministry of Finance gave a fundamental comment against the tax advantage of biofuels after 2015 with the fact that this is an unjustified fall in public budgets, which no one wants us to. When the Minister found out that his ministry had made this comment, he was very angry. And, of course, as a minister, he had the right to withdraw it, so he withdrew it. So it was not only a reminder of the Ministry of Agriculture, where the Minister turned around, it was not only a reminder of the Ministry of Finance, where the Minister turned, but also an obvious public lie by the Minister of Finance when he introduced the House and the public to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the amendment by Karel Rais. There he said clearly and even justified his position that his office had an opinion neutral, and knowingly lied. His office had a positive opinion and the Ministry of Finance recommended that Karel Rais's amendment be accepted. On the questions we are addressing Minister Jurečka, I think he deserves a question about the Minister of Finance Babiš, for which reason he has deceived the public and the Chamber of Deputies on the position of the Ministry of Finance on the amendment by Karel Rais. What motive he had. Why he lied so publicly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u63	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark again, Mr Petr Bendl, then with priority rights, the Minister of the Environment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u64	I wanted to respond to my colleague Kalousek, and I wanted to ask him if he would stand up for the Minister of Agriculture. It almost seems that you have agreed and that actually Miroslav Kalousek is the greatest advocate of the Minister of Agriculture. But I understand that if someone can't defend themselves, that he probably needs some kind of replacement and that Ex-minister Kalousek can handle it, because the Minister of Agriculture can't say anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u65	Well, thank you. I would ask other colleagues not to disturb those who have been given the floor during speeches. Now, the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec is giving a proper speech, and a colleague, Fiedler, is reporting with a factual comment. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, given that the Ministry of the Environment has been mentioned here, I think the answer to the question that came out here is obvious from the material, and I think you all have it there. It is on page 25 and I will quote: In view of the fact that the obligation to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fuels to ultim 2017 and to ultim 2020 pursuant to § 20 will require a further significant increase in the mandatory proportion of biofuels to 8 to 9 per cent, and since the standard for diesel oil allows the incorporation of up to 7 per cent of biodiesel into diesel fuel, the obligation under paragraph 1 should be maintained to a limited extent. - That's why there was a debate, and that's why the compromise was 30 percent. Thus 30 per cent of the option to meet the minimum quantity of net or high-percent biofuels in order to maintain this. The truth is, however, that according to the information I have, the European Commission forces us to be zero, i.e. to be zero, to be able to fill clean biofuels or high-percent, i.e. We suggested it as a compromise, because it is obvious that the mandatory incorporation will probably not be enough to ensure that the share is met, i.e. That is why the share was 30 per cent, but we proposed 30 per cent at the same time, because the amendment had been made for several months, when it was not clear what the European Commission's position would be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u67	Thank you, Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco. Now with proper application by Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u68	Thank you for the floor. I didn't originally want to perform, but Minister Brabec always motivates me to perform. I am afraid that Minister Brabec, Mr. Minister of the Environment, not very much, or at least from how I understood him, did not quite notice some of the moments explained here by colleague Kalousek. That's why I'm gonna try to... I found such an interesting text on public sources, which is quite, I would say, folks, so the information may be more accessible that it won't be as technical as I would like to read here, and maybe some will then put things in context. [[18.50 hours]] To meet the quota of 10 per cent for the use of renewable sources in transport can be done by two ways: 1. tax advantage of high-percent fuel, biofuels, 2. force fuel suppliers to mix part of biofuels into regular petrol and diesel. At present, almost no excise duty is paid on high-percent biofuels, or it can be applied for a refund of up to 100 per cent. This is used by transporters, as high-percent biofuels cost a few CZK less per litre than conventional diesel and petrol, thus significantly saving on costs. The state, however, does not collect approximately one to two billion per year on excise duty. This week - and this is actually today - will be the first reading in the House printing 418 which increases this excise duty, or goes at first sight against the interests of biofuels producers. The problem is, however, that the original excise duty only increased cosmetically and only after the intervention of the European Commission, which made significant comments and pointed out that this cosmetic increase in the smell of unlawful aid had to be increased more. So we are in a situation where, on the one hand, the interest of the Minister of Finance is to collect as much taxes as possible and, on the other hand, logically, the interest of the owner of Agrofert - the lowest excise duty that will reduce the price of high-percent biofuels and thus increase demand for them. Unfortunately, there is one person with us, as I add. And I suspect that in normal countries it might be enough for the government's demise, and the minister in question probably could never run anywhere again. But with us, of course, it is possible. At present, all fuel suppliers must comply with the obligation that at least 4,1 per cent of the volume for petrol and 6 per cent for diesel placed on the market must contain a biofold. It does not matter if they directly mix this biofold into petrol and diesel, or supply petrol and diesel without mixed biofuels, and the required percentages will meet the delivery of high-percent biofuels to the market. And that, please, is crucial, and I hope that's how we feel about it. However, one paragraph is part of the Parliament's 418 press, which explicitly states that only 1,2% and 1,8% of the mandatory 4,1% to 6 percent can be met by the delivery of high-percent biofuels, which means that the rest must be incorporated directly into petrol and diesel. And what effect will that have? This will increase the consumption of biofuels and, of course, the profits of Minister Babiš. The transporters will continue to use high-percent fuels, because they will still be significantly cheaper than conventional fuels. But there will be new biofuels in almost every litre of petrol and diesel. So if we want biofuels in every liter of petrol and diesel, we want to destroy our engines in our cars, so let's raise our hands for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u69	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. This is Mr Zbyněk Stanjura reporting properly. Excuse me, I have a colleague named Fiedler written down because he didn't log in electronically, but I signed you up. Mr Fiedler's point of view, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u70	Nothing's going on, Mr President, I'll sign up. I am still watching because the petitioner is the Ministry of Agriculture, or Minister Jurečka, whether he will apply and if he will answer a question that we have been repeatedly telling us about what led the government or this House to admit that from 1. 7. we will be contrary to European Union law. A simple answer is enough for me. Minister, say, "I won't answer it." I'll accept it. Please say "I won't answer it" or answer it in any way. What we are witnessing, I have seen here several times, and I assume that we will also experience it several times before the end of the parliamentary term - now I speak as a government coalition: dear opposition, talk what you want, we will do time here, we will suffer here, we will bow our heads here and act like it doesn't concern us, then we will vote in the same hundred and eleventh time. I think we're witnessing it again, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr. Stanjura's proper application now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u72	I want to thank my colleague Kučer and Minister Brabco, because I think they have answered much more precisely than the Minister of Agriculture, that is, the possibility of using the full volume, the pure biofuels. I asked you, Minister Brabč, something else. I asked why, in the spirit of your material, you do not oppose tax relief for pure biofuels. Because you're saying that it's distorting the market, it's losing the state budget, and that it's actually going through something. Basically, you're right, because the economic reasons for using it, and it's legal, are clear. And Mr Kučera explained it quite well. This is the thing where we see double support and we see an increase in the total incorporation. One part, these are transport businesses and so on, will continue to use clean biofuels logically if tax concessions are applied. And maybe what you've announced is that Brusel will force us to make the total -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u73	Mr President, I will interrupt you for a moment, ask the House for peace. I understand that there is a great deal of nervousness with regard to the vote that took place here this afternoon at the meeting after 21 o'clock, but please let these matters be argued outside the meeting room and let the speakers speak. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u74	Well, you ripped me out of my speech a little bit, but I'm gonna try to pick up where I left off. The Minister of the Environment may be right that Brusel will eventually force us to count clean biofuels out of the total quota. It can happen. The Minister of Agriculture said a moment ago that he could actually count as much as he wanted. The Minister of the Environment has the truth. If you cancel the tax relief for clean biofuels at the same time, no production will increase. That's how it's logically gonna go up. One will use it for economic reasons thanks to tax relief, I do not blame them, at the same time it will count to a total volume either 1,2 % or maybe zero, because the notification is not finished, as we have heard, and thus it will increase - up to the 6 percent will be incorporated into each litre of petrol and diesel and will count it all, even those who do not fully adapt to it. That's the problem you didn't want to hear. You kept saying, "Where do you see an increase in production?" I mean, you started it in 2009 and we're still moving on. Well, we're not going. But I asked, Mr. Environment Minister, why you stood up and voted, and your club, against what you're writing here. Because you're criticizing it in the material, in this press, the tax breaks for pure biofuels. If it were not and Brusel would say zero at the same time, it would not be used logically because it would not be economically competitive. And that is the problem of increasing the total volume, and that is an advantage for all producers, and I say for all producers. The second thing I would like to ask the Minister of the Environment, because it is in his part of the proposal, why the way in which the obligation is fulfilled changes during the calendar year. So far it's been once a year, now it's basically a quartet, don't take my word for it, but basically a quartet, and I have news that the state requires, even though the law doesn't apply, that warehouse owners should follow it this year. First of all, I don't know if it's true or not, but I really don't understand why. The reasoning set up there didn't seem convincing enough for a change. Now they had a year to do it, and it is true that many did it at the end of the period, and it is true that many did it with clean biofuels. I'm not questioning that. So what's the calendar year again? Let's not call it that at least a calendar year, but let's call it an obligation to perform mandatory incorporation four times a year or once every three months. But that paragraph is called the obligation to ensure a minimum quantity of biofuels per calendar year. This is how you define the title, and then you write, among other things, May and March and so on. That's my second specific question about this draft amendment to the Air Protection Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u75	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek's factual remark and the proper application by Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u76	Yes, thank you. Just a reaction to my colleague Stanjura. When an obligation is granted for a whole year and someone is fulfilling it until the end of the year, there is a huge shock demand, extraordinary shifts, production is getting expensive. When the law decides to perform its duty smoothly, it is much better, more efficiently planning production and profits are rising. The answer is pretty simple. However, we have not received the answer here to three fundamental things. The material we are discussing is obviously false, at least in terms of fiscal impacts and jobs. There can be no doubt about that. The Minister of Finance did not answer why he lied to the Chamber of Deputies and the public when he informed the Ministry of Finance of Mr Rais's amendment. And none of the members of the government is willing to answer why the Czech Government voluntarily violates its commitments to the European Union just to continue to benefit Agrofert. Obviously, ministers, you need to think about this answer, just as we need to discuss our next course of action when you do not answer completely logical questions. That is why, on behalf of the TOP 09, I am now asking for a 90-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u77	I will, of course, announce a break, but first I will ask, because both ministers are registered, both Minister Jurečka and Minister Brabec... [[A big commotion in the hall as a response to a request for a break. Mr Kalousek objects: we need advice! Mr. Faltynek repeats: I protest!]] How many minutes, Mr. Chairman? I didn't hear you in that noise. [[Member Kalousek: 90.]] 90 minutes. Okay. Well, before I call a break, Mr. Faltýnek Club Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u78	I would like to ask, through the President, because we have been discussing this for a very long time - I understand the need to consult on this matter - if this break could not be a little shorter, if it is possible simply to make an agreement in this spirit, because the new arguments have not been made here, because my colleague Kalousek, and I have briefly talked to him about it, repeats them because the repetition is the mother of wisdom. I get it. But is it possible to make a deal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u79	Okay. The Chairman of the TOP 09 will respond to this. It's a political debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u80	I am also sorry, Mr Faltýnek, through Mr President. I think if there were clear answers to clear questions a long time ago, we wouldn't have had to discuss it anymore. But when you're talking about what we talked about in private, you also admitted to me, in private, that the 14 jobs were stupid. [[1000]] It's just that you're defending material in which there's obvious untruths. You're not willing to answer that. And that is so crucial that the MPs need to consult on this. Just colleagues, if you're starting to vote for a lying strategy, and as I've heard in the last few minutes, and even mutual blackmail, we need to talk about how we're going to start acting in this Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u81	Okay. I will not allow a debate, because a procedural proposal, not a proposal, but the club president's proposal for a club break is a matter that is announced without debate and suddenly. But given what it looked like this morning, it meant that one break was ten minutes, and the other club asked for another one, so I'm giving the club presidents my word so we can understand each other so that the time of the break would be specified. That's why I'm giving the floor to President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I understand the request, but we all know that it is the ministers of agriculture and the environment who are enrolled in the debate to answer the questions that have been raised here. And arguing about who's lying or lying or not telling the truth is pointless. I think it would be fair for us to agree and vote on the length of this break as the Chamber of Deputies. [[The speaker's words provoked great opposition in the hall. On many sides, it sounds categorical no.]] I understand no, but I would have taken the liberty of returning briefly to history. Very briefly! [[Voices from the diaper: No! Member Kalousek to Procedural Proposition! Other Members call: Enough! Enough!]] How much?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u83	prosit don't yell in the Chamber of Deputies. The one I gave my word to will speak. Since we are currently in a situation where I have interrupted the debate on the basis of the TOP 09 President's proposal for a break, I can only accept the proposals of the Members' Club Chairs on how long the break will be. I won't admit anything else, or I'll interrupt the meeting from my jurisdiction. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u84	I'll make a specific suggestion. However, I would only briefly revive the memory of some colleagues from the right when 8. 11:00 p.m. Someone asked for a break, Mr. Stanjura suggested, I have here exactly the steven record that the break was not allowed, the vote was voted and there was no break. I don't want to touch this, please, because it's just not good in the House. [[unintelligible]] It was exactly 8. 11. 2012. 8. 11. 2012 0.20. [[Members flock to the rhetoric and comment on the speaker's speech. Some are asking for a repeat of the data.]] [[Someone from the diaper: 0.20?]] 0.20. 0.20. So my proposal is for the Chamber of Deputies to vote on a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u85	So I have to say that I will make a simple decision, and that is: I will follow the proposals as they have been made. I'm declaring a 90-minute break for the TOP 09 meeting. [[Faltynek's Member points to a printed log.]] I cannot accept such a proposal personally, and I am saying this quite seriously, because it was a precedent which I do not think the Chamber of Deputies should accept at any second time, because it would then become a permanent precedent, namely that individual political decisions will be changed precisely by what the current majority is. I'm declaring a break until 20.37. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] [[After two minutes:]] On the basis of the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, I call the political grémium to the President of the House to room 120.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-17-ps2013-029-02-008-045.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the agreement of the political grémia which is still under way, I am ending today's meeting day. Have a good evening and meet me tomorrow morning at 9:00. Under the Rules of Procedure Act, allow me to announce that we are starting with a fixed item under the Rules of Procedure Act, by replying to written interpelations. After 11 o'clock, we will also agree on your proposals between 11 and 13 o'clock. There will be oral interpellation after lunch break. The political grémium will be reunited at 15 o'clock with the agreement of both the evening programme, i.e. an emergency meeting, and a Friday's agenda. I'll make an apology for the protocol. Today after 7:00 p.m., Igor Jakubčík, Mr. Jiří Holeček and Mr. Běhounek apologizes for reasons of work. Have a good evening.
