ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u1	124. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, three responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. I will read, for the sake of order, a list of the answers to the written interpelations of Members with whom they disagreed and have therefore been put on the agenda of the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The first is an interview with Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. It is an interpelation of Zdeněk Ondráček's Member on information on a foreign business trip to Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It's a House press of 397. It is also an interview by Zbyněk Stanjura to the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš on the number of employees of the Financial Administration, House Press 423. The third is an interview with the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek. It is the interpelation of Mr Karel Fiedler on the national plan for foreign language teaching, House press 424. I'm opening my first interview. It's a House press of 397. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka replied to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's interview on information on a foreign trip to Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Interpelation, together with the response, shall be submitted as printing of 397. I am opening the debate on this point. Mr. Ondráček reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u2	Good morning, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I must begin by saying, before some true-tellers scream again, that the Communist criticizes Václav Havel's bench, that it is not about the Václav Havel bench in my written interpelation, nor is it about the Václav Havel bench in this discussion. I don't give a damn what kind of personality cult you want to turn Havel into if you're gonna build him a memorial somewhere on Letná or whether you're gonna sanctify him in the future. [[9.10 hours]] I have also heard that this is retribution for the critical journey of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Filip to Moscow. It's nonsense, but if anyone wants to compare these two foreign trips, so be it. The journey of Vice-President Filip to Moscow cost 40 thousand. CZK and output are confirmation of several bilateral agreements between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation in the order of 2 billion. CZK, for Czech entrepreneurs, for Czech workers. You can verify these facts with the Minister of Industry and Trade. On the second trip abroad, its results and costs, I will now express myself and you can compare. Personally, the point is that the government calls some things differently than it really is, and that ordinary people, including us, here in the House, make a fool out of us. In a written interview of 11 December 2014, I asked the Prime Minister for information on a foreign business trip to Great Britain and Northern Ireland, where his answer is completely inadequate and some answers to my questions are even completely missing. Dear Prime Minister, in your reply, you say, among other things, that the journey took place on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia, hence the government's resolution No. 910 of 3 November 2014 agreed to make a working visit to the Deputy Prime Minister for Science, Research and Innovation, Pavel Bělobrádek in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from 5 to 6 November 2014 and to pay expenses for this peak visit to the 12 members of the delegation and escort from the appropriations earmarked for the implementation of peak visits. Following is a list of stakeholders, but it is not complete. And I ask why it is not complete when Mr. profesor Tomáš Halík and his close Rešlová Vasiluková-Rešlová can be seen from available sources on the Internet at the meeting of the Deputy Prime Minister. You don't mention those in your list. I don't know if they flew alone, but according to my information, they were in the government special. You also tell me that on this occasion the Deputy Prime Minister held bilateral negotiations, pardon, bilateral consultation with the British Minister for Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation, Mr Clark, where the topic of negotiations with British partners was, above all, deepening cooperation in the fields of science, research and innovation, both bilateral and pan-European. Dear Prime Minister, other sources state that the meeting with Pavel Bělobrádek was attended by Deputy Minister Nick Boles for the UK. So I ask who met him. True, it doesn't really matter which of the Deputy Ministers met with Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, but it certainly wasn't his counterpart, since the Minister for Trade, Innovation and Qualification and the Chairman of the Trade Council is Vince Cable. I don't see why you promoted Deputy Clark to Minister in your reply. According to these differences between the claim and the truth, there is also a question of why a representative of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports did not take part in the work for the Czech party. It was about higher education. Dear Prime Minister, it is clear from your reply that only Vice-President Pavel Bělobrádek and Minister of Culture Daniel Herman participated in this delegation for the government. I would like to remind you that the Government, in its resolution, approved a working visit to the Vice-President of the Government for Science, Research and Innovation in the United Kingdom. In your reply, you say that the other members were the necessary escorts to ensure the success of the Prime Minister's negotiations. And here is another question: How necessary was participation to ensure the success of this event, for example. Anna Polívková? It is also unclear to me how it is possible that a member of the delegation's entourage will invite three more guests. Specifically, Mr Luděk Sekyra invited Mr Staněk, Mr Anzerbacher and Mrs Doležalová. How and how did they contribute to the success of the Prime Minister's actions? Dear Prime Minister, in your reply and other publicly known facts, it is clear that more than the Deputy Prime Minister's work visit was rather a trip to London and Oxford on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Velvet Revolution. No offense, but that's what you should have called it and not mist that it's a work visit to the Deputy Prime Minister, etc. Here it would be possible to modify your actions with an expression from one fairy tale: who lies, who steals, and who steals, goes to hell. But seriously, if this was a memorial act of worship of Václav Havel, then why were not representatives of the British government and why was it not a delegation of Parliament on the Czech side, consisting of representatives of all parliamentary parties? Why? Because a group of people here took a trip with taxpayers' money, and so they wouldn't just be there at five or six, they took extras with them. A separate chapter is the cost of this trip. You, Mr. Prime Minister, in your written reply, estimated them at CZK 790 863, of which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 392 000, the Ministry of Defence 350 000, the Ministry of Culture 12 000 and the Office of the Government CZK 35 927. Interestingly, the Ministry of Defence's billing is because this precisely rounded amount gives some doubts about the truthfulness of the costs carried out and it is hard to estimate what lies in it. Apparently, transport costs are not included in this sum by the government special. I assume the delegation flew a challenger. In general, the cost of transport for this type of aircraft could be estimated at $4,600 per flight hour, but given that the government special does not fly only under the regulations of the Civil Aviation Authority, due to the safety requirements of its operation and maintenance, it is necessary to count on an amount higher, moving at least $5,000 per flight hour. And I'm grounded. You can ask some experts who have experience with this. I could name for example. A colleague of Mr Marek Černoch. At least four hours between Prague and London and back are required, only the transport costs at the former koruna exchange rate against the dollar are incurred for at least 450,000 crowns. Personally, however, I think that these costs were in the order of at least 600,000 crowns. Bottom line, this trip cost the taxpayer at least CZK 1,250,000. [[9.20 hours]] If this government behaves like a proper farmer, and here I would appeal to some new Members and new Members, especially here from the ANO movement, this work trip could be made up to CZK 50,000 if the Deputy Prime Minister, the Cabinet Director and the interpreter had taken advantage of the commercial flight. Dear Prime Minister, since you have not answered some of my questions to me, I ask again: If this was not just an action to expose the Václav Havel bench, what were the other members of the delegation outside the Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek's work and are tangible outcomes from these negotiations? Is there any tangible outcome from the meeting of Vice-President Pavel Bělobrádek with his British counterpart from which it is possible to demonstrate how cooperation between the two countries will be deepened in the future? Did Professor Halík and his escort Rešlová Vasiluková-Rešlová also take part in the flight with the government special and the meeting? How is it possible that Mr Sekyra, who was not originally assigned to accompany the delegation, invited three other guests? How and by whom were they safely examined before they boarded a government special where at least two government ministers were present? Are these safety standards? And the last question: How was Mrs Anna Polívková's participation necessary in ensuring the success of the negotiations? And I could ask you the same thing about the three guests I named Mr. Sekyra. Maybe my statements are a little harsh, but unfortunately they're true. Prime Minister, you didn't give me all the information I wanted in your reply, and you weren't there yet. Thank you if you answer me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Prime Minister with priority rights will respond. You have your word, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u4	Thank you. Hello, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček asked me the following specific questions in a written interview sent to me on 11 December last year. And I would very much like to repeat them here, so that it is clear what I have answered in my written reply to his intervention. The first question was: Who were the individual members of the government delegation with their names and jobs? The second question was: Who was the escort of the members of the government delegation, stating their names and jobs? The third question was: What were the working sessions of other members of the delegation outside the Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, and what are the outcomes of these negotiations? And the fourth question was: What were the total expenses, including expenses from the chapters of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, for this government work visit to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland? honourable Member, honourable Members. I did not take part in this business trip, I do not know if the Member has taken advantage of the opportunity to interpel directly to Vice-President Bělobrádek, who personally took part in this business trip, but since I did not take part in this trip, I am dependent on the information provided by the institutions concerned as Prime Minister. Of course, at the time I received a written interview from the Member, I turned to all the institutions concerned, including the Vice-President of the Government of Bělobrádek. I have received the necessary information, and I have provided this information, in my best knowledge and conscience, in response to his written intervention, which I sent him on 8 January this year. In this interview, I set out exactly the list of members of the government delegation, and I also mentioned the escort that formed this delegation, and I informed about the programme of this trip and specifically, in particular, the various departments, I also answered the fourth question concerning the costs associated with this route. This journey was duly approved at the meeting of the Government of the Czech Republic, which means that all parameters relating to the proper approval of such work trips have been met. This trip was actually made in connection with the fact that last year we commemorated the 25th anniversary of November 17, which is undoubtedly a cause for celebration, a positive reminder. On that occasion, the Václav Havel bench was discovered in London. This bench of Václav Havel was not financed from public sources. It was financed through private funds and the government provided only the presence of government representatives on this festive occasion. As I was informed, besides the ceremonial revelation of the Václav Havel bench, a meeting took place at our embassy on the occasion of commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia. We have tried, and I must say that, in principle, all over the world, in order to use the Václav Havel personality on November 17th, to raise some positive awareness of the Czech Republic, and this action in London was part of this government effort. Undoubtedly, the Chamber of Deputies was also informed that on 17 and the following days I took part in the trip to the United States on the occasion of the discovery of the bust of Václav Havel in the US Congress, and this event was also part of the comments of a major anniversary concerning the modern history of the Czech Republic. I am not aware that I would have withheld any serious facts relating to this journey by Vice-President of the Government, Mr Bělobrádek, to interpel the Member's reply. The government is making it as transparent as possible and has provided the Member with all the necessary information, all the names of the participants, as these names have been recorded and as this information has been provided to me as Prime Minister. At this point, I do not see the reason why the Member is dissatisfied with my answer, because I have provided an accurate and exhaustive answer to his four specifically formulated questions, which concerns both the composition of the respective delegation and the programme that this delegation has completed in Great Britain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Mr. Ondráček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, why am I unhappy? Because the Government's resolution states: we agree to make a work visit to the Vice-President of the Government for science, research, innovation, payment and so on, and the purpose was the meeting. If you say and write directly, we're going to open Václav Havel's bench, there's no problem with that. I wouldn't have a problem with that. And I said I wasn't interested in the Václav Havel bench. My point is, you called the business trip, you were looking for something to legalize the trip, so the Prime Minister met with some deputy, not even a person who's on the same level with him. Maybe they chatted for two hours, and that's the end of the action. I asked - you said you provided me with a list of all persons. Then why don't you introduce Professor Halík? Is it such a problem to write it in an answer? I don't see why the professor was there, but I don't see why you can't write it in your answer. I know you're not writing it, of course, that you sum up what they give you, but they didn't give you complete information. And the flaws that are there, the fact that a private entity that sponsors a bench or has another intention to do so invites three private individuals, no one knows what kind of people they are, and you drag them into a government special, where there are two ministers? Don't be mad at me, but there are some safety standards. Recently, I think President Zeman flew from China and got on a private plane and it was also criticized here. I don't see why unverified people should go to the government special if we don't even know who these people are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u7	I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Minister Herman. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u8	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, as was said in the report, I was a participant in this business trip by Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. I would like to turn against the expression of gossip used by the Member here, because it was a meeting on cooperation with Great Britain in the field of science, research and innovation. I took part in this trip as Minister of Culture, we visited the British Parliament, where we talked about the care of cultural heritage just on the basis of the centuries-old experience of the British Parliament, and also these meetings took place at Oxford University, where thanks to the generous understanding of the very leadership of the University of Oxford, the mentioned bench Václav Havel was revealed. As the Prime Minister said, it was on the 25th anniversary of November 17, 1989, and it is certainly a matter of great honor when this celebration can take place on the soil of one of the oldest European universities. The participation of members of the government underlined the festivities of this moment. As for the composition of the crew on the plane, I really don't know who everything was on the plane, but I can say one thing: When I accompanied the Prime Minister to Auschwitz on 27 January this year, there were some journalists who interviewed us, and I saw that it was a very uncomfortable situation in which they were on the border of night and night, and that they needed to get to Prague, and I knew that there was a spare capacity on the plane, so I asked the Prime Minister and the security apparatus if it was possible for these journalists to take us to Prague by plane. After they passed all the security regulations, it was possible. I don't see anything weird about it when a plane that flies the same way and isn't any more expensive or cheaper when there are vacancies, and people who need transportation when they go through all the security regulations and it's agreed by the Heads of Delegation when this service is provided to them. If anyone doesn't like it, I'm sure he has the right to ask, we have a duty to answer it, which is what's happening. So once again, I would very much object here to the official hearing being called chatter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u9	Thank you, Minister. I don't see any applications for the debate. Yes, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I think there's been a bit of a misunderstanding. Now I want to thank the Minister of Culture Herman for what he said, because that is exactly what was missing from Mr Ondráček's interpelation. The third question asked you, Prime Minister, through Mr President, by Mr Ondráček, is what work was done by other members of the delegation outside the Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, and what are the outcomes of these negotiations. As an answer, and I quote, you have said: The other members were part of the escort of individual constitutional actors, making it necessary to ensure the success of the Prime Minister's negotiations, emphasising the importance of the 25th anniversary of the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia and the deepening of traditional friendly and partnership relations between the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. In my opinion, this was not the exact answer to this question, and perhaps just the speech of Minister Herman gave at least some reason that you did not give in your reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u11	Thank you, Madame. For the sake of order, I ask if anyone is joining the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I am now asking Mr Ondráček, as proposed by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u12	Once again, Mr President. I would therefore propose a resolution that I do not agree with the answer, because it is not complete.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u13	So your motion for a resolution is a disagreeable position with the answer. Okay. I will put it to the vote, just to repeat, we will vote on who is in favour of disagreeing with the response to the interpelation. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this motion for a resolution, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? We have a vote with order number 37, the Members present are 126, for proposal 26, against 60, the proposal has been rejected. Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read the other note that arrived. Today, Mr Ivan Pilný apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 10.30 for personal reasons, and Mr Vít Kaňkovský for personal reasons, and Mr Karel Fiedler from 14.30 for personal reasons. I'm opening another written interview. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interpellation on the number of employees of the Financial Administration. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the response as 423. I am opening the debate, the President of Stanjura reporting. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u14	Good morning, thank you for the floor. First of all, I want to thank the interpelation processors, because we have enough time to have a debate on how the Financial Administration works and whether it is appropriate to propose any changes both in taxes and in the competences that the Financial Administration carries out in particular. I have a few notes. I would like to draw attention to the material and then say what the figures show, at least from our point of view, and what we would possibly suggest and what we would like to discuss with other colleagues and with other clubs. First, if you look into the answer you're going to read and remember, there's a lot of numbers, so I believe we're going to work with it for a long time, which is why I say thank you for that, because no one but the Financial and Customs Administration itself could provide us with accurate documentation. But if you look, I'm going to round it up, it's not always per unit, there's about 15,000 employees working in the Financial Administration, and about 9,000 is dedicated to tax collection and control itself. That means almost 40 percent of the employees of the Financial Administration are engaged in something else. On the first page, before the tables, a list of all the competences and activities carried out by the Financial Administration staff is written. As many of us know, since 1 January 2013, the structure of the Financial Administration has changed, I think that this step has proven to be more transparent, a specialized financial service, an appeal, a General Financial Directorate, and then 14 financial offices that copy the local authorities. If you look at the costs that the Financial Administration costs us, you will find that in 2013 the personnel costs accounted for 80 per cent and in 2014 the personnel costs amounted to 85 per cent, i.e. the crucial cost factor being the personnel costs. [[9.40 hours]] I also asked about the number of employees because the Minister of Finance has repeatedly talked about strengthening - or strengthening the Financial Administration by 600 employees. Obviously, it hasn't happened to this day. I thought this had already happened, and we can therefore discuss where the 600 people who have been given the activities. However, the answer shows that the number of employees at the end of 2014 was essentially the same as at the end of 2013. So, in the year of this government's operation, the number of workers hasn't increased. The percentage of personnel costs increased by about five, and if you look at the numbers that are directly devoted to the tax administration, a few dozen workers dropped the number. The answer is dated this month with the fact that up until today, or until the day the answer was sent, there has been no decision as to where the 600 employees will be placed. Before I go into detail about individual taxes, one of the things that the Financial Administration is actually carrying out is the control of subsidies. It's on the opening page of the answer. And many controlled entities repeatedly, and I justifiably say, complain that one thing goes repeatedly to check various public authorities, relevant ministries, financial authorities, SAOs etc. I think it is on the agenda of the day to discuss whether, for example, we would leave control of subsidies of state or European, but especially of state, to the SAO. Then, of course, we would loosen our hands on all the financial authorities and employees of the Financial Administration, not having to control the subsidies, and they might be able to control the fulfilment of the tax obligations of individual tax entities. It's a matter of discussion. We're not saying that we do, but I think that if we're thinking about expanding the SAO's powers, there should be some debate about narrowing down the number of audit authorities so that they can't control the same things repeatedly. It is very common for those subsidies that public procurement is still ongoing, which goes to control not only the Office for the Protection of Competition, but also the so-called Office for Competition. audit units, and very often the results of these checks are the opposite. And then the mayors, the mayors, the chieftains, the vice presidents have a big problem, because one day they have the paperwork of the Office for the Protection of Competition, that it was okay, then the audit unit comes along, and the result of the inspection is completely different. And the result, for example, is the return of European money or periodic penalty payments, political shame. At the same time, the mayor or the person who received the subsidy has confirmation from the competition authority that the public contract was carried out in accordance with the law. So I think it's time for us to have a debate over the next few weeks and months, if, for example, we could discuss this competence of the Financial Administration - whether we would reduce its responsibilities so that they could focus more on the tax administration itself. If you look at the number of employees who are engaged in individual taxes and costs, you will identify, in my opinion, at least three taxes that, in our political opinion, would be worth abolishing. We've already designed one. We're going to discuss abolishing the property acquisition tax. When you look at the tables, this tax is devoted to almost 800 employees, the cost is about half a billion a year, the yield is between 8 and 8.5 billion a year. Even a much clearer candidate for cancellation, and once again it follows from those numbers, is the road tax. The yield is about 5 billion a year. We have over a million taxpayers. More than a million taxpayers of road taxes! That means the average yield per taxpayer is about CZK 5,000. The road tax is devoted to 600 employees of the Financial Administration. So let's guess how many subjects per year can be checked if there's one million, and the yield is relatively small. I think that would -- and we're just talking about the costs that are on the side of the state, not talking about the costs that are on the side of the taxpayers. Those aren't exactly simple and completely small. It is certainly an amount that can be put into transport infrastructure in a way other than the collection of road taxes. Another thing we have to talk about, and we often talk about it. Look at the number of taxpayers in individual financial offices, respectively in individual regions. The discrepancy - when it comes to tax havens in Prague - is basically only for two taxes. VAT and corporation tax. The numbers just don't fit there, obviously even though we acknowledge that the capital, logically, is in every state, has the greatest economic performance, the greatest economic activity, it's absolutely logical, so the numbers just don't match, they don't need to be 5, 10, 15 percent higher than in the surrounding, secondary, Central Bohemia region, which has roughly the same population, there are double and higher numbers. Of course, the number of employees doesn't match that, but I believe that this is something that can be agreed upon and can be removed. Of course, this is not the case with other taxes. If you look at, for example, mineral oil tax, which is very often mentioned as tax fraud is being committed in this area, this tax is surprisingly the worst according to the number of taxpayers, or the most taxpayers have other regions - the Central Bohemia region, for me surprisingly, as well as the Highlands as well as southern Bohemia. And the same applies to excise duty on tobacco. So the discrepancy between the number of tax entities and the number of employees is, I say, the VAT and corporate tax. In the case of personal income taxes, there it is in principle balanced, it corresponds in my opinion to the economic activity of individual regions, there the figures are in no way alarming or surprising. I would like to talk about one more tax that we want to come up with a motion for annulment. I'm just saying right here, we need to think about compensation. It's a real estate tax. The number of taxpayers is 4.7 million 4.7 million, and above all, they are physical non-business persons, even though there are entrepreneurs, they pay real estate tax every year. However, the yield is a 100% income of municipalities and cities. This means that it is not the income of the state budget, and if we come, and we want to come, with the abolition of property tax, there are, in our opinion, two ways to compensate cities and municipalities. Alternatively, they can be combined with both of the variants. Firstly, it is an increase in the share of cities and municipalities in the budgetary determination of taxes. I'm sure you can count that out. You can count it in those coefficients, and you can compensate for it. At the same time, almost half of the population of the Czech Republic will be relieved of their tax liability. The second thing is the possibility of introducing municipal taxes. Because apart from real estate tax, we also have taxes that are legally tax-like. We also have the Tax and Charge Administration Act. These are the well-known fees for dogs, municipal waste, entrance fees, spa fees, entry permits, etc., etc. I think it might be interesting that there could also be a political duel at the level of cities and municipalities, where, in some range, like real estate tax, municipalities have a certain power over the amount of municipal taxes from zero to the legal limit. I'm sure it can be done. The real estate tax, where the yield for the state is zero, by law it is determined, is the cost estimated at CZK three-quarters of a billion a year and is working on this tax - I have it here somewhere - 1,250 employees. Which, of all the 9,000 who spend all the taxes, is a huge sum. And again, if we were to abolish the tax, these 1,250 employees, or 800 employees, who are doing the real estate tax, or 600 employees who are doing the road tax - together, the yield of all three taxes is less than 25 billion. Which is sometimes monthly VAT collection. Sometimes there is a higher monthly VAT collection. When we say that last year the total annual VAT collection was over 300 billion, the average monthly yield of one single tax is 25 billion. And the same number... Lower - lower - is the annual yield of three other taxes, devoted to over 2.5 thousand employees, who cost us by the numbers available to us, about 1.5 billion a year. [[9.50 hours]] That's what I think there are things we should be discussing. The numbers are clear, even if they're opposition numbers. These are numbers that were processed by both the Ministry of Finance and the Financial and Customs Administration. I think there's a clear way to simplify the tax system. The tax system is not only simplified by releasing an exception in a law, but it can be improved by simply abolishing some taxes without compensation. Because we also need to figure out where the greatest potential for tax evasion is. I don't know if you've ever heard of any significant tax evasion in road tax, for example. A million taxpayers, 600 employees, a yield of 4.5, somewhere 74.8, somewhere 5 billion. I think it's worth a serious consideration. In principle, I expressed my opposition to the answer for only two reasons. The main one was so we could debate the numbers so it wouldn't fit in, so the numbers wouldn't just stay with me, that I had a written answer somewhere. And the other one, I'd ask the Minister to answer when he'll hire the 600 employees and where they'll be allocated. I'm interested in allocation in two levels. Firstly, on which tax and, where appropriate, in which region. Of course, the figures offer that it should have VAT and corporate tax and that the region should be Prague. But I don't know if that's the plan. If they are, I'd like to hear them, and I'd like to ask you when those employees are going to get in, and if they're going to increase the percentage of people who are dealing with the tax administration itself or the others. I wouldn't want the incentive to remove the financial authority's obligation to control state subsidies in particular and leave it to the SAO, for example. Or take her off the SAO again and leave it only to the financial authorities. The system of many authorities that go to control the same is inconvenient to me, complicated, and once again would contribute to greater clarity and easier governance and easier control of the use of state money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Vice Prime Minister is reporting for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the stimulating discussion. I'm glad. I'd go back to Financial Administration history. Financial administration was once part of the Ministry of Finance. And it is a pity that Mr Kalousek is not here, who has, in fact, privatized her in some way. He singled her out and gave her unusual rights. For example, he forbade anyone to control the Financial Administration - a very unusual matter. I immediately became interested in Financial Administration. I asked what needed to be changed. I got about 50 suggestions from the former director. I asked what we've done in the Financial Administration since the revolution. What has been done to collect taxes, and I find that not much, that the administration is indeed in decay. This also culminated in our criminal announcement to the former Director General of 31 October 2014. I can then show it to Mr Stanjur - transactions for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 in the range of about 100 miles. Crowns where it's actually suspected that gentlemen were doing business in their own pockets. Financial administration wasn't run by anybody. And he's not in good shape. We're trying to fix this. Unfortunately, we have taken a bit of a delay, but we also need to know that on 1 January 2011, your government and Mr Kalousek reduced the employees' salaries of the Financial Administration by 10 percent. So it wasn't until 2015 that we were able to replace the 10 percent, because if we want to control someone, we have to pay them. The basic tariff is about CZK 20,700. It's just to the edge. The fact that the Financial Administration had no concept, no one was directing it, that it was a political assignment to be helpful, that's what I got from the employees. Of course, it's a priority to fix it. We're analyzing the competences of the Financial Administration because I feel like people do bureaucracy and do a lot of things they shouldn't do. In that regard, I agree with Mr Stanjura. We have a new control law on the table, and we are proposing exactly what you're saying in the control law, so that the Financial Administration doesn't control the subsidies. Everyone's checking out the subsidies these days. The resort that will provide this, Financial Administration, SAO, Ministry of Finance, European Union and I don't know who everything is. It's completely absurd. I'm asking how it's even possible that we got there. How is it possible that someone is asking for a 20-mile grant? And then this state sends in a few checks, each says something different, and ends with that poor businessman not only investing 20, but having to pay a penalty of 20 and a penalty of 20? Instead of investing 20, it's minus 20. Unbelievable! That's how this state works. This state doesn't distinguish between corruption, fraud and an innocent accounting mistake. That's the absurdity. That is why we propose that the control system be completely changed. This means the resort will provide the subsidy, at the same time it will check it and then, if there is a contradiction, it is an appeal body and it is supposed to be the Ministry of Finance, which has already taken over 50 employees of the Financial Administration and is to take over 200. So 250 employees Financial administration will go to the Ministry of Finance, where they will be in the framework of the draft new law as an appeal body. I have hundreds of letters there to absurdize for a few crowns, for some mistake that someone sent a letter later. We're actually terrorizing potential beneficiaries of subsidies, and instead of pumping, we're doing everything we can to make sure we don't. Basically, we scared them so much, they're already afraid to ask for funding. So full consent. I don't have a problem with that. I think the SAO has a clear competence. Our proposal is to simplify the controls. I feel like we can agree on that. Of course, the financial administration worked so that Prague became a tax haven. We even have 1,600 companies at one address. We came up with the idea of deciding and returning businesses to where they have their business. Prague is a tax haven. Here, on average, in some parts of Prague, there is control every 300 years. Everyone knows. Everyone's been using it. Financial management is in bad shape. I'm just asking who did what with her. There were 5,000 in Prague. pending cases only for January. We did a special event in Prague and we chose 300 miles for January. taxes more. We have special programs in Prague. And those 600 people, as Mr Stanjura asked, 160 people are going to Prague because we need to strengthen Prague. Around Prague in the Central Bohemia Region there are municipalities where we are still harassing entrepreneurs, they go there every two years - and here in Prague every three hundred years. That's ridiculous. And we're also changing our competence. Why was it in the past, as it is with the prosecutor or the police, that someone outside of Prague could control a case? That's what they did. I don't want to talk about cases here, of course, the last time Kobra intervened, where two employees, or one, I don't know how much, I don't know exactly the detail, they were involved in corruption, tax evasion, they were returning VAT back. And then tell me, if we're gonna hire people now -- you're gonna ask why we haven't picked them up yet, we're gonna do it -- how are we gonna pay them? So when a college boy ends up here in Prague and goes to some more global firm, they offer him 40, 50 grand, and we're somewhere at 18, 20. [[10.00 hours]] So that's the state of the Financial Administration today. I mean, this state never tried to collect the taxes. Never. There was no strategy anywhere. I asked the Financial Administration, "Who's following the claims?" Who? They're still showing some fictitious unpaid taxes, but those are just taxes that the state charges itself. No? We'll have an example of Mopro, it's somewhere on some appeal committee, and it'll also put itself on a bottle. Those are the absurdities that we have here and that we have to fight. The employees of the... It's not like one employee and one tax. So, of course, they're dealing with a lot of taxes, and we clearly figured out where the state is losing money the most. And, of course, it's for unpaid VAT, yes, there's statistically the most of it. And, of course, it's cutting sales where you all have a problem with your sales log. Please, I made a comment on Law today. It's actually written that everyone will understand, because there's always something haunted that we want to. And these are the concrete measures that we are taking. So we're fixing the Financial Administration, yes, because we need to strengthen it. The Financial Administration isn't here to - everyone wants information. Executor, everyone. So they only do bureaucracy, administration. I'm not talking about the crazy ADIS system, which is actually outdated, slow, trouble, we're in the hands of the company that delivered it to us. No one's ever thought about it. So there's a million problems. And where we're actually losing the money, we know how much the black economy is. That's 15 percent of GDP. We have VAT. I've said that x times. So we want to put in place concrete measures, except that we want to put the Financial Administration in order. Specialized Financial Authority. So I asked you what we had it for. The specialized financial authority is to control the biggest companies. The companies that pay the most taxes. So I asked: "Why is it specialized? Why don't you check the companies that don't pay taxes? No. They go to check on them. But have them check them out. That's great. But so... since I know it from the other side, I said to them, "Well, what then?" How do you control the tax bases? Do you have a strategy? The dividends they're leaving... If it's the tax base. [[unintelligible]] Transfer price. That's what the Financial Administration is doing special events for now. So no one was running it. Nobody was driving it. So that's the problem. That's the problem. Property tax. Mr. Stanjura, I really admire you because you, your government, have increased the tax on 1 January 2013 from three percent to four. And now you want to cancel it. You've got to be kidding me. No? As I understand it, that's what politicians say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u17	Mr Vice Prime Minister, let me just clarify, address the Members of the Chamber of Deputies through me, not directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u18	Okay. Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, you have increased your property tax, your government by Kalousek on 1 January 2013. Today we're in March 2015 and you're proposing a cancellation. Are you kidding me? We're suggesting that the guarantor for the property, so it's systemic, is the buyer, so it's not the seller, because then we have a problem actually collecting the tax. I'm sure we'd like to cut taxes. Therefore, I also propose to reduce VAT in the framework of sales records for restaurants from 21 percent to 15. That's what I think you should support. No? Because according to our strategy, to collect the taxes, and you didn't do anything about it in the past. You probably didn't have the minister there. Kalousek isn't here today. Mr. MP. So nothing was done. Nothing. It's decaying, and we're starting with de facto this. [[Top 09 applause.]] When I propose a reduction in VAT for restaurants from 21 percent to 15, it makes sense that restaurants pay 21 percent and buy foodstuffs where the tax is 15 percent. According to our analysis, the restaurant here doesn't actually pay about 10 billion in taxes, it cuts sales. And we're going to withdraw 1.6 billion. If it passes, and I firmly believe that reasonable people will support it, that tax reduction is 400 million, because we're going to collect 1.6 billion from those restaurants. And the difference is 400 million. 400 million - it will cost us Vrbětice, which you have prepared so well for us in the past. So I think it's a reasonable suggestion that we motivate those who pay taxes to make their taxes a little easier and lower their taxes, because I'd like to collect taxes first and then lower them. You're the right, but you've raised her. And the real estate tax and the VAT tax. I would love for us to really approach this in a reasonable way. And I would love to discuss excise duties with you. I'm begging you, Customs is handling this. Yes. So it's a combination of staff increases. That's what I'm talking about - 160 people go to Prague, the rest have to go to a special finance agency. And, of course, we also have to pay these people, because we have companies that, of course, have high-quality tax advisors and legal advisors, and unlike us, they can pay them well too. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I'm registering President Stanjura's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u20	The Minister of Finance said so much, so I'm gonna try to respond to some of these things. Very often I hear from Andrej Babiš's mouth: I was against it. It was a coalition compromise, which is why we accepted it. I understand that, too. We also sat in coalition governments, and we also made coalition compromises. And things weren't according to our program, and yet we voted in favour, just like you do, and as every coalition government basically does. It's just normal. We haven't been here yet, virtually. We had a one-color government of social democracy. At least there we managed to keep the low deficits of state budgets, even though it was a demonized opposition treaty at the time, so basically the results of the management were not as bad as the coalition governments did in those years. The Minister of Finance keeps saying how he's gonna collect the taxes, but the campaign ended a year and a half ago, and now we have the results, and it's not visible. You really can't see it. I agree that the first two months are not sufficiently telling to make any big conclusions. But if someone doesn't tell the whole truth, then they'll run for it. The Ministry of Finance has been issuing a monthly report on the implementation of the state budget for years. I've been watching this for, like, ten or twelve years, I've got my charts, my charts. And I'm always interested in the comment. Last year, when - January, February and March - it was a very good performance, look at those reports, they're on the web today, there's only one sentence that they've withheld VAT and that's why they've paid back, and that's why there's a higher income. It's not. Now they're using it as an argument, and they're right that if they're holding 13 billion and then most of the time it turns out that the suspicions weren't reasonable and the taxes had to be paid, then logically, the income is lower. And I say, it's a credible argument, they just forgot a year ago to say, we have such good results because we're looking at 13 billion. So it's over. If they were there a year ago, the argument over numbers is easier this year, because when the results were good, it was silent because it looked very good. There's a new government coming in: look, it's pouring out, everyone's afraid of us, everybody's paying, different atmosphere in the country, everyone's saying, you're supposed to pay and you're not paying. And now, after a year, when it turns out that the suspicions were completely unfounded in most cases, suddenly it's an argument: And look, in the February report, even in the January report, it's argued. And I understand the argument, and it's okay. [[10.10 hours]] On the other hand, the problem is big. Not only me, I'm sure you're also being approached by taxpayers who have a problem with this control. Not with the control itself, but it's taking a long time. And only the big ones who have teams of lawyers will defend themselves. Very often foreign owners. But ours, the smaller ones, they're afraid of the Financial Administration. Because the minister described it quite precisely as bureaucratically sending something later for the little ones, two days later, there's a penalty, and that's it. That's what they do. When I told the new head of the Financial Administration, who, in my opinion, had a very debatable presentation on the budget committee, do you know what he said to me? Everyone steals, little ones and big ones, so don't stand up for the little ones! That was on the budget committee. Everybody steals! I can see why he became head of the Financial Administration because he spoke exactly as if the Minister were speaking. Government Members have joined me in order to make sure that the Financial Administration is a little lenient to those small, even those administrative measures. But it's very simple. The minister argued a little bit because he said why is the Specialized Financial Authority? And then he says, "We're going to strengthen him because we're dealing with companies that have good lawyers." That's why. So that the specialized Financial Authority would be equipped with experts so that the state would have the same quality people as on the other hand, who actually have them. And that's why he was supposed to deal with the big guys and the guys who had the lawyers. However, it was not our proposal, and we proposed not to introduce it, the abolition of contractual salaries. That's what you guys voted for! Or most of you, I don't remember exactly. And then we say, I don't have a way to pay them! But that doesn't add up. Either I leave the category of contract salaries, and I know I need high-quality experts somewhere, but I have to pay them, and it just doesn't fit in those tables. Or I'll accept the left-wing view of the world: tables and everyone takes the same. Well, the government chose it as a b. And now at the same time we say, we have a problem, we don't get good people. Well, that's very hard to do if we don't, but when you guys canceled contract salaries. And it turns out it's not a reasonable measure. So let's get back to it, let's talk about areas where it's reasonable for the state to have contractual salaries where we need specialists and where we don't. Where, in principle, it is administrative activity and where we are sufficient with table salaries. And it's not just a financial or customs issue. Mr. Secretary, I know you may have just misjudged yourself. We didn't raise any real estate tax. The real estate tax is determined by municipalities and cities, and you mean the acquisition tax. And it was one of those things I was talking about, that these are coalition compromises that individual members of the government coalition just might not like, but simply within the coalition treaty, coalition unity, government support is voted for. We're not hiding it. However, we are now in opposition, now we are promoting our programme without any compromises, and we are proposing to abolish the tax. If you say you're going to propose a reduction in VAT, you're going to ask if we're going to support it - we're going to support it. We'll support it. That's a simple answer, I can say it here on the microphone, it's not a big deal. I think your coalition partners will be a problem for you, at least from the previous statements, perhaps the Prime Minister, who is against it. But again, on the one hand, you say we have too much bureaucracy. And I agree with you. Unlike you, I don't want to look back 20 years for culprits - in 1993 he introduced this form... But you're introducing two new giant bureaucratic machines. Checkout and checkout reports. I wonder if there's an estimate of how many lines of invoices there are. Because everyone's gonna have to report every invoice in the check report. That's billions of data! What's the Financial Administration gonna do about it? I have already mentioned this in another law - to this day it is not clear the format in which it will be passed on. But at the same time, we're fighting bureaucracy. And we are introducing huge, unprecedented bureaucratic instruments. And not those who don't pay taxes, as you say, those who are suspicious, but all of them. The vast majority of taxpayers are honest. Absolutely overwhelming majority. And I stand by that, unlike the new Chief of Financial Administration, who claims to be stealing from everyone, small and large. I really don't think so, and the experience is just different. There's no reason not to praise the government or the Treasury if it does something right. You say you return the addresses of those who want to move to Prague. I think that's a good thing. But it shouldn't be the only one. If you feel that the company is doing this for some suspicious reason, and you're returning the address to her, I think it should automatically start a checkup. Because by changing the tax place to send her back to South Bohemia, South Moravia, North Moravia, I can't solve anything yet. I'm just going to raise the mathematical probability of a check once every six years or once every ten years. But if you have a serious reason and you say it's some kind of fictional transfer, then in addition to that return, a check should come in. And it should be confirmed or refuted whether the company is or is not a taxpayer and whether it fulfils or does not fulfil its tax obligations. And it wasn't us who said 200 billion once. plus, once 150 billion. plus, once 100 billion. plus is collected annually in taxes. That's what you and your colleagues said. And it's the second year of government and nothing! We rejoice when we reach level 2014 in 2015. Where are the hundreds of billions or tens of billions? Even in the estimated income of these bullying proposals, if you look at the government's decision to actually make class suspects are businessmen. If we look at them and introduce them to the register and put in a check-in report, they'll be all over it. That'll be revenue! We're gonna get everybody, everybody's gonna pay. That's what we've been... But if you look at the materials that your ministry is sending, there aren't hundreds of billions of expected revenue. They're not. They are much more soberly estimated and are much lower amounts. So one thing is PR and shoot 100, 150, 200 billion, then it's clear that there are surpluses. I don't have to cut costs if I'm plus 200 billion, so this year I'm going to be plus 100 billion, not minus 100 billion. But reality is different and quite complex. And the three taxes I was talking about. You've completely avoided it, perhaps by being a really broad issue. Like a road tax. A million taxpayers, a yield of less than five billion. per year. Cost 400 million. Every year, 600 employees. What's the point? Isn't it easier to cancel? And you have 600 available employees, 600 jobs, and you don't have to accept more. And when we were talking about wage costs, if someone was picking them up or something, there are two different things. One thing is the total amount of wage costs and then there is a specific salary for a particular person. And if you're reducing the total amount of costs and many in self-government are doing that to rationalise the authorities, to reduce the number of officials, they might as well have a total lower wage volume, while the people who stay there may have higher costs. On the contrary, it is motivating for the good ones to see that the one who decides on wages appreciates the one who has an above-average performance and appreciates it above average. Instead, the government, under pressure from Brusel, is said to invent a scoring or dot system, each employee gets points, and according to those points, will be rewarded and said to be fairer. But in that salary adjustment, where everyone's supposed to have the same, the salary only increases when you're older because you're getting a higher degree because you've lived to be. Well, that's not a fair system. First of all, it discourages young people from going to the state administration, because I would still understand the table salary at the job position: you're the head of the department at the magistrate, at the ministry, you have this basic salary for this function. And not that when you're 28 years old, you get a lower salary than when you're 48 years old! There's no logic to that. But unfortunately, it's the direction the government has taken and is going. And then we'll justifiably miss being unable to get qualified people and overpay them in the private sector. Well, if we keep only tariff salaries, and even with the pay grade, it'll just be a minimum incentive for young people in particular, and we'll have a problem getting good quality people into government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I note Mr Plzák's factual remark. Then I have two priority rights. President Laudát, Vice Prime Minister Babiš, and then Mr Bendl, duly signed up. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u22	Thank you, Mr President. My esteemed colleague, colleagues, I am no specialist in the Financial Administration, but on that note of mine, rather a question, I was led by a small comment that I heard on the radio this morning when I came here. The essence of this comment may be contrary to what Mr Stanjura, President of the ODS, said here. The essence of this comment was that small entrepreneurs have been experiencing years of golden times in our country. That 9,000 employees of the Financial Administration are actually watching over a million businessmen and 400,000 small companies. I'm out of efficiency, I'm out of tax systems. I'm just interested in the total number compared to the world, if there's any comparison. Do we really have so few? Do we have twice as many as we need? Three times less than would be necessary? That's what I'm interested in, because otherwise I don't understand this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u23	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u24	Then for Mr Plzák, by your means. I don't know if you were just quoting it or thinking it. I don't think small businessmen are having a good time. And what you're up to, they're going to have a worse time. I don't think they're having a good time at the moment. And whoever says that doesn't know them. He doesn't know their situation, he doesn't know their problems. But maybe you were just quoting. If it's just a quote, I'm sorry. Whoever wrote this doesn't live in the real world, doesn't have real information. It's not true!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u25	Thank you. Now, therefore, with priority rights, President Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I didn't want to be on this subject, but the Minister of Finance kind of urged me to do that. You know, I'd really like his election campaign to end. The nonNečasův government has fallen - two years in June. We haven't been responsible since. And, Minister, don't ask who did what with the tax administration, us. I'm asking you what you're doing with her. Those numbers, even if they're not quite representative yet, but at the beginning of this year, they're a foretaste of something very bad. And I want to invite the Prime Minister here to have him run an analysis. Perhaps it will improve in the coming months, but the outputs, as I'm watching them, are really starting to be the seed of a huge mess. I am afraid, because in some items, not that taxes are levied worse than in 2014, with economic growth, but even probably in 2013 at a time of great recession. And since the Ministry of Finance actually determines the functioning of more or less all other departments, so if we're talking about some weak government articles, Prime Minister, I'm starting to worry. And I'm not really happy about it, because people are gonna swear to the House, the whole government, the whole political representation that they're born here, and they're the first hints of a huge mess. I personally attribute it to the fact that there are two approaches to treating civil servants, either there or there, tax officials to clients. They're not thieves to me, they're businessmen to me. And that's supposed to be for the state of clients, because we all live off their taxes. And you can choose two approaches. It has equivalents in the law, and you'll see exactly where this government is going. Prime Minister Sobotka, when he arrived, you must remember, he said: we are going to put down a single collection point indefinitely, not the priority of this government. I was thinking yes at the time, so we are embarking on a journey of European law against Anglo-Saxon. There when someone's in trouble, their right is focused on solving the problem. Europeans are more likely to be punished on the way. When you do it in the right, well, it's a question of anchoring society, etc. If you do it in economics, it can go wrong. And there are already immutable indications of this - because it is not about one tax. When it comes to collecting one tax, you say - and we have often seen in the past that on the budget committee and the deputy or even the minister said he didn't know why he was taking more taxes or a little less. Rather, an unexpected large collection of taxes in the past has been addressed or discussed. But if it's bouncing in a whole series of items, it's already signaling something. And I really do, when I worry a lot, because there's no reason - Mr. Babiš says he's dealing with things, i.e. If the latch system shifts tax administration to greater performance, customs administration to greater performance, then it cannot be that the results essentially have exactly the opposite trend. And I take it that the policy of repression really doesn't work, the threats, and that it's even destructive. I think if this goes on, we're gonna have to - I don't know if in April or May, but it really wants to wait two or three months - seriously deal with what's going on in the finance department. And, of course, the huge cost of employing officials is that we don't have a single collection point. I'm sorry we're not working on it, we don't have information now. Last we heard in Pilsen at the exit meeting of the Budget Committee, but it's been enough months now that no one knows how to proceed with the work. I think it would be a great benefit for this country and its citizens, in particular, if a single checkpoint was also made. Don't you think it's crazy and embarrassing where we got to? Today, almost half of politics - instead of caring how to optimize the tax system, simplify tax laws, simplify laws in energy, etc. - so almost half of the agenda and the government and ministers are slowly falling into whether they invest somewhere often on the crap of European subsidies or not. Half the agenda is already subsidies and control subsidies and control controls. Don't you think we're already getting into some crazy Absurdistán? And the SAO, although it controls, it also checks, even though it is - whether the audit authorities of different institutions... I know that's how we sent apparently breaking the rules in public competitions... Then it goes to the UOHS, and it goes to the relevant financial authority. And in my opinion, everyone in these institutions has to look into whether or not there's been a law violation. Minister, I agree with him that after the office, the other interpretation, the other approach to hardness or softness in the interpretation of the law etc. However, it's another huge package. I didn't exactly know my colleague Stanjura's interpellation, but I want to end it with something else. After a year and something, Minister, don't ask us what tax administration, tax collection. Now we're asking you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u27	Thank you. I'll read the two note cards that came to me. Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková apologizes today between 9 and 11 for the sake of the negotiations, and from 14.30 she apologises for the reasons of work to Mrs Marta Semelová. He also apologizes from 14.30 for personal reasons, Mr Jiří Koskuba, and from today's meeting between 14 and 18 p.m. due to negotiations in the electoral region, Mr Bronislav Schwarz apologizes. Furthermore, I have two other calls for Members who have given their interpelations. The first is called Electronic Recording of Sales and the second Financing of Social Services of the Region, the amount of funds received. These interventions have been duly submitted and signed, but it is not possible to read from the signature what Members are concerned. [[Veselo especially in the right side of the hall.]] I'm going to ask you to fill in, write down who's interpelling so that it can be drawn and placed in order. And now, with priority right to the debate, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš is entered, and then I record the two proper applications made by Mr. Bendl and Mr. Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would have responded to the comments. Yes, it is true that the state's accounting works very strangely, at least for me - some sub-balance sheet or some balance sheet at the end of the year. And when I saw that tax collection for January and February, because those comments were always just some numbers, but it didn't go to the core, I started to wonder what it was like. [[10.30 hours]] Yes, in the first two months, we didn't choose 16,6 billion from the frontload of tobacco. excise duties. That's normal development. I think Mr. Laudát here is doing some kind of alarm report. The budget is being developed according to the planned budget as we have approved it. Yes, and the VAT was withheld. And it was from the title of Prague, it was from the title, and it was withheld VAT of companies located abroad, because we have the biggest problems with VAT. I'd love for you not to repeat the nonsense that some people, media, write - hundreds of billions and this crap - because someday someone will write something and then everyone will repeat it. According to EU statistics, VAT unpaid in the Czech Republic for 2012 is 3.2 billion. EUR, i.e. 108 billion. Crowns. So that's what we're gonna lose. The cobra intervened, which we also imported, by the way, in 14 cases and it was all carousels. We've detained 1.9 billion. Crowns. So it's all fake networks of companies robbing us of money. All you have to do is look at the FAO's increase in criminal charges and how much money they've withheld. Yes, VAT refunds, no one did it - 2014, 2013, not even officials, you are right, and now, given the development of the budget, I have become interested in this and, of course, every month we will do the analyses as it really is, because after cleaning up all the influences we have chosen by 5 billion in two months. More. So that's it. I highly doubt that Mr. Janeček was talking about thieves. On the contrary. As Ministry of Finance, we certainly appreciate entrepreneurs and businessmen who pay taxes, even do competitions, reward them, and I certainly can't imagine anyone saying that for our resort. So I would like to take this opportunity, because I see that electronic sales records are very popular, everyone is talking about it, and few people really know what's going on. Well, I'd like to introduce you here. That means why are we putting in place electronic records of sales? We are introducing it because the state has not been able to collect any tax from the dishonest for years. Honest businessmen cannot compete. That's why we want to take away their competitive advantage from the dishonest. This is why the introduction of electronic sales records supports all business associations. Danda, Mr.Havlíček - the head of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders - supported this in the morning, and the Chamber of Commerce supports it. We'll burden business with another administration. We won't! They're not cash registers. Sending the sales data message and printing the receipts will be as complicated as payment by a normal credit card. How much is this gonna cost? Most taxpayers who pay taxes will not cost anything, because the cost of purchasing software - and in Croatia even were free software on the network where they could download it - will be deducted from income tax. Those who do not have cash registers that can be connected electronically, so the cost of their acquisition is really minimal. If we drive businessmen to the employment office. Administration and costs associated with the electronic record of sales to the employment office will not drive anyone away. There is an argument that the higher taxes, i.e. those to be paid under the law, will lead to the liquidation of entrepreneurs. The argument that we have high taxes and therefore it is right not to pay them, I consider it absurd. If we have taxes set too high, taxes must be reduced. We have also proposed a VAT change for restaurants from 21 to 15 percent. I think paying taxes is reasonable and normal. One of the big debates on sales records: What happens if the Internet doesn't go? Nothing's gonna happen. The law is counting on that possibility. Cashiers will continue to issue receipts, customers will shop quietly and the data will be sent when the internet comes on. If the taxpayer loses his Internet connection much more often than the others on the same street, the tax administration will go there to see what's going on with the connection. What if it doesn't make it? That's not gonna happen. Sure, Mr. Laudát says we've been there for a year. I think he knows how the state works, and I'm asking what measures this state has taken since 1989 to collect taxes. So if he doesn't make it, even though we're still holding the deadline, we're gonna run him a few weeks later. If we didn't have anything here for 20 years, it wouldn't kill us for a few months. So we're already playing on the nerves of those who don't admit sales today. The smarter ones are already starting to do more in business in 2015 so that the leap in sales registered in 2016 is not so noticeable. They know that tax obligations can be controlled several years ago. What small craftsmen, hairdressers, etc. will do.? The obligation to electronically record sales will be introduced gradually, so so far we have only proposed restaurants and retail. This is 50 per cent of the total number of entities concerned. Other sectors will be added exclusively on the basis of risk analysis by the tax administration. So for each sector, we will consider the benefits and costs and for small craftsmen, hairdressers, etc. the electronic record of sales will not be covered. How much will this bring - I was talking about VAT - in time? And, of course, if someone is objective, they know that if we push through and put it in place, it will only be reflected in 2017 and beyond. It's a long-term process. We see potential there about 30 billion. How will it be controlled? We want to change the expectations of entrepreneurs and customers. Exposing an account should be normal. If there's an issue, there's no need for a check. If someone deliberately doesn't expose the accounts, the tax administration will intervene. We listen to comments about the bill and therefore remove the customer's obligation to take over the receipt, so there will be no obligation for people to take over the receipt. If the customer leaves the receipt at the cashier, the system will be safe because the data will already be sent. And the question is, do you need it? Of course, we can collect taxes like we used to. An dishonest entrepreneur crushes an honest entrepreneur's tax-free price, and the state budget lives with it for years. Every time the state lacked tax revenue, it raised taxes for employees. Nobody asked the employees if they paid their taxes. They pay 128 billion. and pay the tax for each payment without saying anything. So why should they just pay the employees, and why shouldn't we all pay? I think it's normal. So the employer collects taxes, and the employee doesn't hide income, and it's easy for the tax administration. So I don't think collecting taxes like before seems fair to me, and that's why we want to change it. And when you talk about bureaucracy, please, today at the Financial Administration, there's a software that evaluates 17,000 suspicious cases a year, and in that case, it actually comes down to VAT being withheld. If we have control reports, of course, the number of checks will be significantly smaller and, on the contrary, we will make it easier for companies. And in the Czech Republic there are several companies that do business in Slovakia, where they have it, and they do it normally and it doesn't bother them at all, and on the contrary they got used to it and the data that are there, they already do - list of invoices. The list of invoices is actually concentrated and the software is transferred, so the load of work is very small. I'm offering Mr. Stanjur here, if he's interested, we can go to some Czech company that does this inspection report here in Prague, and you can measure how long it takes, and we can ask the company if it's really bothering them. It's not Agrofert, it's, for example, Emko, who does it from Prague. So if you're really interested, I'd be happy to invite you on a field trip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u29	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Stanjura in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u30	When the opposition reads articles or books, it's obstruction, when the Minister of Finance reads his article from today's Law, it's an explanation. It's just weird that you have to read your article. But I was intrigued by the article, and I want to ask you that - otherwise I don't do business, I don't fill out any inspection reports and fill out them, so it's not personal interest at all that I have a problem with the inspection report. I'm just saying that your officials have already decided how long it's going to take, we don't know what format it's going to be, but it doesn't matter. What's it gonna cost, the Minister of Finance read it a while ago. Most businesses who pay taxes won't cost anything. The costs of acquiring software will be deducted from income tax. I understand that a small company, for example, gets a profit, it has $20,000 a year, and now it says -- and $10,000 cost me software, so it's going to have a tax deduction and it's going to pay out of that $20,000 $10,000? That's how you wrote it in the article. Are we going to change the income tax? And will there be a tax exemption that the cost of registration cash registers software is deducted from income tax? Then there should still be the cost of software for control reports. No? Or the whole software. 'Cause once again, the tax clerk checks out that when an invoice comes on some software, I haven't heard it write off. That's brand-new. Then we won't be able to collect the taxes! I really don't understand it, and I would ask for an answer if I interpret it - that's good news for the entrepreneurs. If he buys $100,000 worth of software and his tax goes up to 80, he's still going to lose $20,000, and he's going to write off that loss for three years in the next few years. But that's definitely gonna need technical support, that should count too, because the software has to be maintained, the Treasury has to change something, the government changes something, Parliament changes something, the software will have to change, so we're making it like perpetuum mobiles, that actually software - and I'm the original professional programmer, and why not, in the software industry, it's definitely gonna help him when the software costs are deducted from tax.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u31	Thank you. The next party to the debate is Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should let the Minister exhale for a while to call his boyfriend on the phone and explain to him how it's going to be done, or how it was meant in his article, because by reading it here, I think he's shown that he doesn't even know what he's talking about, rather someone else wrote it to him, and it was necessary to repeat it here and do it inconspicuously, but it didn't work out, because some of us are just reading it. However, I will return to the matter, because my colleague Stanjura here has intersected the Minister for a matter other than the rate of deduction of income tax software, even if it is a spicy thing and I hope that the Finance Minister will be able to call his subordinates and explain to us how it was meant, or what the price of the software will still be, and who will determine it and so on, or from whom the software will be etc., but after all, I finally get the answer to why 600 officials need to be taken inside the Financial Administration. In the beginning I only learned that 190 will come to a tax haven called Prague, because in Prague all those who pay taxes here live in a tax haven and need to be dealt with. By the way, there is one lovely joke on this subject, one of the shortest jokes I've heard in a while: This is how the control from the financial office comes to Agrofert. [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] I guess that's the way it's going to go for the future. I disagree with what the Finance Minister, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, has said in the long run that everything here is decaying, the country is devastated, the rescuer's father had to come, who simply acquired his property completely outside this country and had to fix it. I am sure that there are a lot of things in the Czech Republic that need to be fixed, it is a continuous process, but that the financial authorities would work in such a way that they are in absolute decay, I cannot agree with that. The people who work there are simply trying to do their job at 99 percent honest, doing it on the basis of legislation that is often complicated, because we live in a country where people can read between the lines, and the more complicated we come up with, the easier they can figure out where to bypass the system. We should be aware of this, and we should invent simple and not complex things. We should appreciate the business and not talk about it here as well as the Deputy Prime Minister who says that basically entrepreneurs are robbing the state, and poor employees are the only ones paying taxes, and all those who employ them are the bad guys. After all, it's kind of leaking to me what's been here before - inspiring hatred against those who are trying to secure the job for someone and trying, I'd say, tonight in a system that doesn't move without subsidies. I mean, look -- we've messed up the business system with all kinds of subsidies from the European Union, from us and everything, so we're running a lot of checks on everyone, and there's something we need to do about it. It fell down here from my colleague Stanjura, and I heard from the Treasury Secretary that he agrees that the controls are too much, virtually. The organs that go to control one and the same are too many, and that he would like to do something about it. But he didn't say what. And a specific question has been asked here. Is it to be controlled by the SAO or by someone else, or is it to be the state and the financial authorities to control the use of subsidies? We didn't get an answer. Maybe it'd be a good idea for the answer to come out here. So what is the Minister's opinion on this? So if what he said here about half an hour ago is that he still thinks that bureaucracy is too much and that one thing for a particular natural person or legal person goes to control several authorities that do not do so, which authorities strengthen and where, on the contrary, he takes the competence to make control more efficient and perhaps less efficient. I'd really like that answer. I'd like to see that we're done with the populism, the way we came - or before I came, it was a disaster! The country is devastated, my friends. We're going through these villages and cities, and you see this crazy thing. There's been nothing going on here for 20 years! The first Prime Minister sits next to the Prime Minister, the former Finance Minister, who probably didn't do anything here either. Absolutely nothing, zero! I don't know. I think everyone, if they touch their conscience, must feel that there is a certain degree of arrogance and populism. Okay, if anyone wants to root for her, let them root for her. I think it is necessary to admit to everyone that they are simply trying to change things in their own way, in line with some of their electoral agendas, and that we often do not raise the problems that are going with us. But to say that by the time I got here, everything was fine here, and now it's gonna start working here, all this Absurdistan is gonna end because I'm gonna take 600 people to the financial authorities, and my friends, no tax haven in Prague, says the finance minister after a year and a half of my reign. [[no]] Well, let's hope it pays for at least another year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u33	Thank you. I have four factual points now. First to the microphone, please, Mrs Šánová, then Mr Laudát will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u34	Hello, everyone present. I just want to say that since everyone here is having such a great time and they're all so well-known, they should also refer to applicable legal standards. We heard here this morning at Mr. Stanjura's performance that we have the Dog Tax and Charges Act. Please, we haven't had that since 2011. Yesterday it was said that we have simple accounts. Simple accounting, please, was cancelled in 2005. Since 2005, we have had tax records and there is a very significant appeal that tax records are regulated by the Income Tax Act and not by the Accounting Act. So if there are changes in the Accounting Act, it doesn't concern tax records at all, or individuals who keep tax records. Then there is confusion, and people who are watching a bit of the House of Deputies, they call me and ask me what's changing again for the physical person. So watch it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u35	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr Laudát. Mr. Plzák will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u36	Thank you. I'm just worried about one thing. I really think that the time of cheap bullshit is over, or should be because the Minister of Finance will not collect taxes, the Social Democrats will start pushing and the result will be inefficient tax collection and high taxes. That's the worst possible combination that's ever gonna happen. The minister mentioned Mr. Havlíček's name here. I, for some of the leaders of different unions, am beginning to create doubts about who they represent. I attended some kind of seminar on electronic records and there everyone had a nice chat about how they would do their next business. I rarely come from somewhere ugly, but I can't stand it there, and I left after I found out that I had accidentally come to people I didn't belong in. I'm afraid there's gonna be another one coming in, this time a Republic Opencart. When it comes to entrepreneurs and caring for them, you know, I don't know what to think anymore, but the other day it scared me when out of the latest world statistics it turned out that e.g. We're the 110th worst in the world to start a company even after some relief. I don't know how many states there are today, when they're born like mushrooms after rain, if there's 200 of them, but in any case, we're economically somewhere around 25th place, so it's scary. And that's how we're gonna load up this paper, that paper over there. As far as officials are concerned, I agree that the tax administration should be strengthened, but it should prevent it from simply simplifying the system and saving those officials somewhere, and then, when needed, it is effectively moved there. If you make a single collection point, you have 3,000 vacancies and an incredible savings of businessmen on tax advisors who advise on how to pry. [[Prime Minister, I'm sorry, your time!]] So that's a completely different approach.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u37	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Plzák's microphone, Mrs Lorencová will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm going to respond to my colleague Bendl. I don't know what kind of people he hangs out with, what kind of voters he has. The signals I get from the voters, and even from my own experience, are that they really are businessmen who employ people black. These people are really stealing from the state because they receive unemployment benefits. The state doesn't do anything about it. There's a lot of people, construction companies that work all black. This is where we talked to our colleague Adamec about doing it, the gray economy, 15 percent. So I think the Minister, if he's talking about businessmen robbing the state, that's who they are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u39	Thank you, and now, please, with the de facto Mrs Lorencová. I'll ask my colleagues to... Madam, I'm begging you, hold on a second. Gentlemen, I'd like to ask you not to disturb us. Thank you. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u40	Again, in brief. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, through Madam President, has been heard several times in these microphones that this country is being stolen. We all know they're talking about a tunned country. I want to remind you that no one had to steal here. This was a legitimate business, and it was done legally by the laws that your governments adopted, and which of what everyone saw, as well as the taxpayers, that there was a huge theft and robbery out of the taxpayers' pockets, you made it a legitimate business by what you adopted for the law. So what kind of thefts do you want to talk about here, folks, especially in the benches on the right? It was your governments that made a legal business here of tax evasion of hundreds of billions, when it was - a classic - light fuel oils, overvalued stones, and that was never one billion, two billion, five - tens, hundreds of billions. How can anyone, with that knowledge, stand up to this microphone here and blame the current government for trying to fix something? I could continue to list these incredible leaks that can't even be called escapes, because it's sacred laws that you've adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u41	Thank you for keeping the time limit. With proper application, Mr Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u42	Thank you for the floor. With a proper application in the length of about such a factual remark, so I could log in earlier. So I will shorten the four points that I have written so that we can get to the resolution. It is a pity that I did not have the opportunity to react immediately, at least I will mention that I listened very carefully, what was said here, what my colleague Stanjura said here, and I was impressed by his proposal, his idea that if we find out or found out by the state authorities that the registered offices of companies in Prague had no justification and that they would therefore be forced to relocate to their real territories, places of interest, that it should be accompanied by tax control at the same time, that I am interested and I think that this is not a bad idea. I hope the Vice Prime Minister here sees this too, this proposal. It's basically targeted directly at companies that show that they're probably not doing anything right. And if the officials of the financial authorities focus on these, they will probably aim in the right direction with some relatively high probability rather than prosecuting all of them by electronic reporting of sales and registering cash registers. So what my colleague Stanjura suggested here, I fully support, and I think it would be for another debate. And when the minister here yesterday admitted the mistake of not taxing tobacco leaves, I believe that he will also think about what he is proposing, what will affect the small businessmen in particular. I believe that it may also recognise the incorrectness of this intention in the case of cash registers and electronic records of sales. Thank you, and I'm giving some time to my colleague Stanjur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u43	Thank you and Mr Bendl in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u44	I'm just in a brief response to my previous speaker. Of course, I realize that there is an effort to circumvent some laws. I realize there are also those who employ someone black. But we're different in the recipe for how to deal with it. You're saying-- we're going to tighten up so much, there's going to be more and more of this circumvention. We're gonna push it towards the CFI, we're gonna push it towards those little ones who just don't have the lawyers, they don't have the money for the number of advisors they may need everywhere, they're basically gonna be wiped out so they don't work. We're more in favour of looking for such a simple system to allow everyone to do business here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u45	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I see no one, I end the debate and I ask Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, as proposed by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this answer. None, so we can consider it closed... [[Objection in the O.R.]] So either you agree or you disagree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u46	I don't think I have such a hard choice whether or not I agree. I can suggest that I disagree. [[Unintelligible]] We're debating this, I think I'd get the same numbers if the House disagreed. The numbers were listed, so I'm not making any motion for a resolution. This does not mean, however, that I agree with what the Minister has written to me. I'm sure with the numbers, yes, with the little comment on some things, yes, in some things, but I'm not proposing a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u47	Okay, so we now consider this point closed. Thank you. Now, with priority right, please, to the microphone of the President of the House of Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u48	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I keep my promise, which I made at the meeting of the House of Gremia, that today I will inform briefly and briefly about the meeting held at Prague Castle 17 2. It was a meeting of the highest constitutional officials who had the task of discussing and aligning the arguments of the highest constitutional officials on foreign policy. I believe that, as President of the House, if I participated in this meeting, the Chamber of Deputies deserves at least this very brief information. However, I do not feel that this is so crucial that we place a new point, so I am taking advantage of priority rights. I want to say that this meeting was probably the first in the history of the Czech Republic when senior constitutional officials, the President of the Republic, the Presidents of both chambers of Parliament, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence met and discussed foreign policy. We agreed that this format was appropriate and that we would continue this discussion and coordination. This meeting 17 2. had three topics. The first topic was the Islamic State and the risks to the Czech Republic. The second topic was the situation in Eastern Europe, the conflict in Ukraine. The third topic was the question of the Eastern Partnership and the fourth, rather subtopic, coordination of foreign trips. I will not describe in detail the course of the debate, after all, both the communiqué and all were released, or most of the participants then appeared in the media and informed about the meeting. I mean, we have generally agreed that we see the Islamic State as a great danger to Euro-Atlantic civilization. We talked about the possibilities of the Czech Republic to contribute to the solution to the situation, as clearly as it is, that without resolving the causes of the conflict in the Middle East, the issue of the Islamic State will not be solved. The most interesting thing, of course, was the statement by the President of the Republic on the possible sending of a field hospital to Jordan. However, it was not an isolated project, it was rather an exit from the debate that we had on how the Czech Republic can contribute by its ability to address the situation in the region, because we agreed that it is much more productive to deal with the situation in the area, that is to help countries affected by the waves of refugees, whether it is Turkey, whether it is Jordan or Lebanon and others. One of the skills the Czech Republic has is, of course, this ability of the Army of the Czech Republic. However, this whole matter depends on the potential interest of the receiving state, and only then would we proceed to any other measures. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] As far as Ukraine is concerned, we have discussed the position of the European Union. We have agreed that the greatest advantage is that a single position has been maintained within the European Union, and we have also agreed that, in the absence of implementation of the agreements from Minsk and the risk of this matter being a major issue of the European Council this month, we will repeat the meeting. However, our feeling at the moment is that despite all the difficulties and complications the situation in Ukraine is rather calming, and therefore there is no reason to meet. We also agreed that the President, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will attend the European Union Summit on the Eastern Partnership. We discussed possible cooperation with individual countries of the Eastern Partnership and agreed that this is a project that we will continue to develop. As far as the coordination of foreign travels is concerned, we have agreed on who will represent the Czech Republic at major events this year. Just a few more notes on the format. We agreed to continue to meet in this format -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u49	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, but it's really loud in here. I'll ask my colleagues to keep their voices down. If they have something to say to each other to do so in the foyer. I think the information you're giving is definitely interesting and important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u50	Thank you. I won't talk much longer, only to the format. We agreed that if there was no sudden situation, we would meet about three times a year with the fact that there would always be a meeting of foreign policy advisors of individual constitutional actors before the meeting of constitutional officials so that the agenda could be prepared. We have another meeting scheduled until the middle of this year and economic diplomacy will be the main topic. This means that I would like to ask the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies, whether foreign or economic, if they feel that there is something on this subject that the President of the Chamber of Deputies should present at the level of this meeting, so I am prepared to either visit the committee's meetings if they lead to a debate on this subject or take into account the resolutions and recommendations of such committees in his speech at the next meeting. So much for me, I guess. Thank you for your attention, and I will no longer delay the House program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u51	I, too, thank the President. And before we proceed with the negotiations, I still have one orphaned interpellation on the financing of the social services of the region - the funds received on behalf of Minister Marksová - and we are unable to decipher the signature. I ask that the father or mother of this request come to the table and report their name, otherwise, unfortunately, this interpelation cannot be included. Thank you. Now we should focus on the fixed points, which is paragraph 71, 98, 116, 118, 117 and 119. We would also discuss the items from the second and first reading block according to the approved agenda of the meeting. Then we would eventually focus on points from the news block, suggestions and more. We'll discuss point 125 this afternoon, which is oral questioning. I have here an application for an approved agenda of the 26th meeting, with priority rights, Minister Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u52	Madam President, fellow Members, allow me to propose the inclusion of a new item on the agenda, and this is a proposal to shorten the legal deadline for the discussion of Parliament's press 417 amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and Act No. 311/2006 Coll., on fuel and petrol stations and amending certain related laws, as amended, in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. I suggest you place the item in front of the fixed points immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u53	Thank you, too. The chairman of the club ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek is the next registered member. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u54	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to ask for a firm inclusion of the following points at today's meeting, namely point 5, it is the proposal of Members of Jiří Mihola, Sklenák, Faltýnek and so on, the law on providing childcare services in the children's group, House printing 366, second reading, and further points 2, 3 and 4, which is a de facto continuation of the debate on the financial constitution which we actually interrupted yesterday, namely for today after the already fixed points. If the Minister of Finance's proposal goes through, then further on point 71, which is Georgia's contract, and point 98, which is the report on the Grant Agency. So after these two fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u55	I'll recap to make sure it's okay. Do you therefore require the classification of point 5 firmly, and this is Act No.247/2014 Coll., which we regulate? [[- Yes.]] And then you said two prints, but I think there should be three.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u56	Three. Item 15, 16 and 17, prints 411, 412 and 413.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u57	And you're asking for fixed points, after point 98, that's the last one, after that. Yes? [[Yes.]] Very good, thank you. Now an application with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Stanjura Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u58	I completely misunderstood President Faltýnek's proposal. Did he really want us to discuss the news today - and the points you're proposing after the news or before the news? It wasn't entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u59	Before the news.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u60	So, once again, what we've talked about doesn't apply, everything changes. The Treasury Secretary gets so angry, he yells at Kalousek, he robs everything, forgets to cut his deadline. Or ask for a shortening of the deadline. I'm just saying, based on the number of entries, if we put a financial institution in place, that's the end of this week. No further point will be negotiated. You've got a majority of votes, you can vote for it, but then I'm really serious about what we're gonna do with the greenies. Now we've been consulting for almost half an hour, usually shorter times, but we've been debating half an hour what we want to do on Thursday, then there was a match, now everything's different again. The Minister of Finance can't arrange for someone to ask for a shorter deadline at a proper point, which is why we have to come up with a point and renegotiate it. But we're going to perform at that point. [[A note from the government bench.]] It's hard to get out when someone's humming your back, isn't it? Maybe your constituents are taking that away from you. I don't believe you're an amateur, I just don't believe you, you can tell anyone you want. You're just a politician who loses his temper and sometimes forgets something, that's true, but you're definitely not an amateur. I don't agree with that, and I don't think so about you. I don't know. The news that was so important, President Faltýnek wanted to discuss it today, obviously we will not discuss it, see what time it is, we have about an hour and three quarters, now about five points were loaded. We'll see. I just wanted to say that I'm embarrassed about this, and all the members who went to the gym on Tuesday, I'm asking what we're meeting for and why we're actually agreeing. Isn't it easier to say let it run and then every morning we read something? Makes it easier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u61	Thank you and now please to the microphone with the priority right of the President of the KDU-ČSL Club, Mr Mihola. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u62	Thank you. Hello. Colleagues, I'm just explaining. We have consulted these proposals with President Faltýnek and President Sklenák, so you know that the KDU-ČSL club at least asks for some changes in the program. This request for children's groups, for second reading, is for a time-consuming reason, and I went around all the club presidents or their representatives yesterday, so all the clubs were informed and their presidents were willing to do so, so I'm a little sorry that now may be such a surprise, although I wouldn't want to mention anything else important, but here it is a time perspective and on Tuesday we just weren't enough to discuss it at second reading. So thank you for your understanding and please support the inclusion of the point of the children's group after Georgia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u63	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, Vice-President of the ODS Club, Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u64	We're just gonna change it again, co-workers and co-workers. On behalf of the ODS Club, I'd like to ask you for a ten-minute recess so that we can get a sense of what any of you are proposing for changing the program again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u65	dobrá, I'm declaring a ten-minute recess for the ODS club meeting. Meet me at 11:25.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u66	Dear colleagues, time has passed for a meeting of the ODS Club. Please take your seats so that we can continue our negotiations. Only if you don't mind, I'll sum up the course. There have been two proposals so far. The first proposal is for the inclusion of a new item by Minister Babiš. Then here was the second proposal - the chairman of the club YES, Mr. Jaroslav Faltýnek, on the fixed classification of the point. I'm here to register his application with priority rights, and I'm asking him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u67	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to modify or modify my proposal. I would withdraw my proposal to negotiate a financial constitution after consulting and agreeing with the presidents of the MPs. Otherwise, the proposal remains the same, or I withdraw points 15, 16, 17, I do not insist on discussing it as I suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-001-124.u68	Okay, so I'm going to recapitulate your modified proposal, that's to place it in point 5 today, which is the 366 -- the children's group. Prime Minister, isn't that right? After a fixed point 98. [[The addressed one agrees.]] Yes. Thank you. We will now proceed to the vote on the first proposal made by Minister Babiš, which is a proposal, a point which is called the motion for a shortening of the legal deadline for the discussion of the House of Press 417 in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll call all my colleagues from the lobby. I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna need you to log in with your I.D. cards. I'm opening the vote for a new point and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 38, to which 134 are registered, for 96, against 15. I note that the proposal has been adopted and that the new point has been included according to the proposal as it has been put forward here. We will now proceed to the vote on the second motion by the President of the club of the ANO movement, that is the inclusion of point 5, it is the House press 366 firmly after point 98. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 39, to which 136 are registered, for 107, against 11. I note that this proposal has also been adopted. So now we're going to look at a new point. It's...
