ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u1	215. Oral inhalation Oral interpelations addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the ranking of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or to the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16, and to other members of the government from 16 to 18 hours. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I am now giving the floor to Mr Antonín Seďa, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka, and a Member of Marta Semelová will prepare herself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, at the beginning of this month, Mr Jensen Stoltenberg, Secretary General of the North Atlantic Alliance, was visiting our country. According to my information, the main theme of the North Atlantic Alliance's adaptation was to transform the current security environment. In response to the change in security threats, your government amended the security strategy of the Czech Republic by a coalition party contract to secure the defence of the Czech Republic, turning the trend from a fall in the budget of Chapter 307 to an upward trajectory with a commitment to secure a defence budget of 1,4 per cent of gross domestic product in 2020. Our army has been dealing with a number of problems in the long run that are related to undermining the financing of the defense department in the past. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask about the results of the negotiations with Mr Stoltenberg and the possible impact of the current security situation on the security strategy of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u4	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. Allow me to respond to Mr Sed's interpellation. At the beginning of February this year we agreed to update the security strategy of the Czech Republic. I am glad that we started working on it in principle immediately after the new government came. It is essential for the Czech Republic to respond to what is happening in the world. Among other things, in the immediate vicinity of the European Union, the security situation has deteriorated very much, not only in the east, in relation to the conflict in the east of Ukraine, and in the fact that Russia has occupied part of Ukraine in Crimea, but also in the Middle East, but also in North Africa, regardless of the risks of terrorism and terrorist attacks that have taken place directly in the European Union recently. These are all challenges that we must respond to not only as the Czech Republic, but also our allies within the North Atlantic Alliance. This means that in this update of the concept, which was last updated in 2011, we have included all the key threats that exist in the Euro-Atlantic space. We define the way in which the Czech Republic, together with the allies, should face these threats. Here in this document we stress the importance of our allied commitments and also touch on new things, which means new aspects of terrorism, the phenomenon of the Islamic State and, of course, the issue of cyber security. In fact, I met with the second Secretary General in the past few days during that year and a half, Secretary-General of the North Atlantic Alliance. Shortly after the arrival of the new government, the NATO Secretary-General was here to visit and in recent days the new NATO Secretary-General, Mr Stoltenberg, arrived. I must say that Mr Stoltenberg appreciated several facts on the side of our army and on the side of the Czech Republic. He appreciated our engagement in foreign missions, especially in relation to Afghanistan. He also appreciated the fact that the Czech Republic began to increase its defence expenditure. He appreciated the fact that we were helping allies in the fight against the Islamic State, for example, by our fighters guarding the air, i.e. the airspace of the allied states, for the last time it was a mission in Iceland, and we are ready to provide units for the forces of the very rapid response of the North Atlantic Alliance. These were the things the NATO Secretary General appreciated. Of course, we discussed the ambition that the Alliance as a whole has to gradually increase defense spending up to two percent, but I informed him about what is real in the coming years in the Czech Republic. I think 1.4 percent of the gross domestic product to increase defense spending is a real medium-term target that we have around 2020. I believe that the increase must be at this very pace to invest public funds effectively. I would still like to comment on the specific content of what this is really about. There was a negative phenomenon here in the past, which was a gradual decline in defense spending. It is a paradox, because there were right-wing governments in our country, but at the same time there was a decline in defense spending. For comparison purposes - in 2006 the Ministry of Defence's expenditures were over CZK 55 billion and fell by CZK 15 billion over seven years, because in 2013 the expenditures were only 40 billion. I'm glad it's less than 44 billion this year, and in the coming years, the spending will increase. That decline, a huge drop in defense spending, caused our army to be unable to meet a number of allied commitments within the Alliance a year and a half ago. I hope things have changed. There is an army that will complement its states because it has long been on very low states in terms of filling tables. That means he's recruiting new soldiers, ammo's being restocked. The acquisition programs for the modernization of our army's armaments have been under way again. This is happening - and now I am talking about the whole security strategy - of course the security strategy also includes strengthening the police, including strengthening the secret services. We already have all this as part of the budget so that we can respond to current threats. So I am glad that the migration crisis has not caught us unprepared and has caught us in a situation where we have already begun to really increase the capacity to strengthen the security of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u5	Thank you. I wonder, Mr. Ambassador, if there will be an additional question. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you whether your negotiations with the NATO Secretary-General also took place on the issue of the implementation of the NATO Action Plan for Preparedness, which was adopted by Wales in 2014, and the event. How Mr Stoltenberg evaluates cooperation with the Czech Chairman of the NATO Military Committee, Mr. Army General Petr Pavel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u7	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u8	Thank you. Dear Member, yes. The meeting was such that we touched on the implementation of the Action Plan of preparedness, which was approved. We also talked about preparing the NATO summit in Warsaw, and we also talked about how cooperation with General Pavel looks. I must say that the Secretary-General Stoltenberg considered cooperation to be very positive, working and constructive. That means he appreciated the cooperation we've had so far with our head of the North Atlantic Alliance Military Committee. I don't think there really were any serious issues in those issues that we discussed. However, it is clear that our army is only on its way to improving its capabilities and to being able to do a collective defense event. to do what our allies expect of us. It also concerns the increase in the number of members of our army, the addition of tables and of course also the modernisation of the armament of our army.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Marta Semelová, who has been drawn in second place, will speak with the next interview. Member Leo Luzar will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u10	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, not only me, but above all many citizens are concerned about the intensive activities of the Sudeten Němec in the Czech Republic and their activities towards them by the official representatives of our state or regions - opening the office of the Sudeten German Landsmanschaft in Prague in 2003, this year's registration of the Sudeten German compatriots' association in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, whose general meeting was attended by the chairman of the most radical organization of the Sudeten German Landsmanschaft, which is also considered an extremist pilgrimage of reconciliation in Brno with the support of the Brno Magistrate with the participation of Posselt, the declaration of the Year of Reconciliation and the Declaration of Reconciliation, in which the Brno Council expressed its regret for moving the Němec. The proposal that fell on that occasion to take place some of the next conventions of the Sudeten German Landsmanschaft in Brno. The memory of the victims from the ranks of the displaced Němec in Munich by Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, which the Bavarian press called a milestone in mutual relations. His encounter with the Sudeten Němec and greeting messages to their reunions. As the first ever member of the Czech government, the Sudeten German house in Munich, where the Sudeten German compatriotic association is based, visited. Participation of representatives of the Czech Government in these meetings. That's just a few examples. These activities are a gross insult to the participants of the anti-fascist resistance, victims of World War II and Czech families expelled from their homes in the borderlands. They contribute to the misrepresentation of the truth about the causes, course and results of World War II and do not respect the Potsdam agreement that has acknowledged the displacement. Doesn't it seem to you, Prime Minister, that this servility to the Sudeten German Landsmanschaft is already over the border? What position do you take as Prime Minister of the Czech Government? Finally, do you intend to take any steps to avoid the activities of your government members mentioned in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u11	Thank you for your question, for your interpellation, and I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u12	Thank you. Madam, I would like to stress, first of all, that this year, which is very important because we remembered the end of World War II in Europe and the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Czechoslovakia from the Nazis, so this year the government was very active in remembering this anniversary in a dignified way. I would like to stress that we started at the beginning of this year when an important conference took place in our country on Holocaust Day. This conference commemorated the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the concentration camp in Auschwitz and the Czech Republic hosted as one of two European countries, the other country was Poland, the second largest such event that we remembered the liberation of Auschwitz. A number of members of the government, including myself personally, participated in a series of commemorative events that concerned not only the commemoration of the liberation of Czechoslovakia by both Russian and American armies, but also the memory of the victims of the occupation, especially in a number of burned and destroyed communities of Czechoslovakia. It is certainly not possible to accuse the government of anything involving any attempt to rewrite history, conceal what was the cause and what resulted in the history of the 20th century. Clearly, even in relation to Germany at the beginning, there was an effort to break up Czechoslovakia, which was very actively supported by the Hitlerův regime in Germany at the time. At the beginning was Munich, at the beginning was the expulsion of a number of our citizens from Sudeten at the moment when the Sudeten under the later invalid Munich Agreement were taken from the then German Empire. Then there was the occupation, there were hundreds of thousands of victims on the Czech side, and only then came the liberation, the decision to postpone and postpone. So the course of history was like this, and I am convinced that history cannot be told backwards, and history cannot be told in such a way that something is kept silent and spoken in a certain way. So much for the edge of what you were talking about. Now let me comment on relations with the Sudeten German compatriotic organizations. I think that quite recently there has been a positive step in relation to mutual understanding. At its federal meeting in February this year, the Sudeten German Regional Association approved the amendment of the statutes and the following statements were deleted from the new statutes: "The Sudeten German Regional Association promotes legal entitlement to the homeland, its recovery, and thus the implementation of the right of national groups to self-determination and defends the right to return from the confiscated assets of the Sudeten Němec, or its equivalent compensation or compensation for it." This means that articles that could have been seen as very conflicting in relation to our mutual history and in relation to the Czech-German Declaration of 1997 have been released. I consider the recent amendment to the statutes of the Sudeten German Regional Association to be a positive step, particularly in terms of strengthening mutual trust at interpersonal level. So this, in my view, is a step that has contributed to the pursuit of better understanding. I think it is also clear that our government is based on the Czech-German declaration adopted in 1997 in terms of perception of relations between Germany and various associations of Sudeten Němec. As regards the recent visit of Vice-President Bělobrádek to Munich, the Vice-President of the Government of Bělobrádek expressed his civic position in the context of Czech-German relations. In this case it was not an official government visit, and the gesture of honor of the victims of the removal of the Sudeten Němec was not so formally subject to the approval of the Czech government. As far as Czech-German relations are concerned, a high level of confidence has been achieved since the signing of the Czech-German Declaration in 1997 and this, among other things, allows political actors from both sides of the border to engage in an open bilateral dialogue. I see the gesture of Prime Minister Bělobrádek as such involved in mutual dialogue. koneckonců all, a Czech-German discussion forum was also set up for this purpose. So very briefly has the answer to your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u13	Thank you. Will you have an additional question? That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u14	Dear Prime Minister, I understand that you have been distancing yourself personally as Prime Minister since the step of Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, but you are the Prime Minister of the Czech Government and you have a responsibility. As for the statutes, I will quote to you others, which are approved by the Sudeten German compatriotic association in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, which is registered in the Czech Republic. Here the banishment, genocide, and ethnic cleansing are condemned after World War II in Central and Eastern Europe, and the persons who have committed this are considered war criminals, and according to them they belong to the courts. According to the interpretation of these statutes, persons who have become victims have the right to compensation for damage and satisfaction, further to grant them or their heirs the citizenship of the Czech Republic and to renew their right to property illegally confiscated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u15	I'm sorry, Madam. Your time is up. Ask the Prime Minister if I may ask.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u16	I wanted to ask you if you really think that distance from your vice-premier's activity is enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u17	Thank you. Prime Minister, I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u18	Thank you. Madam, you see, he is a problem with interpreting the word to distance himself. I don't think that's what my statement sounded like the way you made it. I have not distanced myself from Mr Bělobrádek's move in the sense that I would disagree with him. I have only informed that Vice-President Bělobrádek has taken this step without any mandate of the Czech Government being approved. From this point of view, he acted as a private person. However, I see his step as a gesture that fits in with our efforts to improve relations and to seek understanding in Europe in the early 21st century. From this point of view, I have not criticized the procedure of Vice-President Bělobrádek, but I consider it important to always mention on such occasions not only what took place in the summer of 1945, including the excesses that occurred during the wild expulsion, because it was not only a push, which was organized on the basis of decisions by powers and on the basis of Benešův Decrees. Sadly, there was also wild expulsion, which also had a number of human victims. But it is not only possible to talk about what happened in the summer of 1945, but it is also necessary to talk about what happened in May 1942, what happened in March or October 1938-39, it is simply necessary to talk about history in their whole on every such occasion. It was simply the cause, it was the result, and Czechoslovakia was the victim of then aggression.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. Next in line was Mr Leo Luzar with his interpelling and Mr Petr Fiala will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u20	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, my questions will be directed towards the welfare and migration system. We all know that migrants are currently all going to Germany and Scandinavian countries for one simple reason. They know that their social system and the support they are able to receive there are many times higher than in other EU countries, namely the Czech Republic. If it comes to the shaking of these refugees in other EU countries, where this social system is not as rich as it is in these countries, how will the government proceed? Will he demand special means for these refugees to make up for the difference to stay with us? He's gonna lock them up in some camps, concentrate them there, and look for a solution so they don't leave the camp after 180 days - but I'm warning you, no funds? Or he'll be looking for funds from the state budget so that, after 180 years of leaving the camp, they can somehow operate in this company and not be forced to commit crime or possibly. Find a job? These are all the burdens of the social system. If Europe allocates funds for this, in gross conversion into Czech crowns within the course these will be incomparable with what the Czech citizen receives under social benefits, let alone pay. How do you want to explain to Czech citizens that a person who is in the camp or does not have a job because he doesn't have work habits, he doesn't know the language, he can't integrate so quickly, he receives double-three times the minimum wage of the Czech Republic? These issues should be raised at a meeting of the Presidents of Governments within the European Union. The second possibility is that these rich countries will reduce their social benefits to an appropriate level, such as in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria, but unfortunately I do not expect that. If necessary, an attractive stay in the Czech country in another way, but I wonder how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u22	Thank you. Dear Member, let me first take this opportunity to say what the question of social security for foreigners who come to the Czech Republic really looks like. I think it is necessary, as always, to distinguish the basic categories. As for a foreigner who is detained in connection with an unauthorized stay in the Czech Republic, and there are reasons for his provision to the facilities for securing foreigners under applicable laws, this foreigner does not receive any contributions or other funds when he stays in the facility. The provisions of the Act on the residence of foreigners then even provide that a foreigner is obliged to pay the costs associated with his stay in the facilities for securing foreigners. This is the situation of those who are secured here and are not asylum seekers. Then there is a second group of foreigners, which are applicants for international protection in asylum facilities. These people naturally have a different situation. These are asylum establishments, which are established in accordance with the relevant asylum law, and applicants for international protection accommodation in the reception centre, i.e. those who have accommodation in this reception centre are entitled to allowance in accordance with the provisions of the Asylum Act. The amount of the allowance is fixed by the decree and at this time it is set at CZK 30 per calendar day. This is therefore a foreigner who has applied for asylum, is in a residential facility where he is taken care of, and has an allowance of CZK 30 per calendar day. In residential centres where diets and applicants for international protection do not have to be provided by themselves, a contribution of the minimum amount of living is provided in accordance with the applicable law, i.e. here's the chance to make a living minimum grant. In any of these cases, this cannot be any advantage of the asylum seeker over another citizen of the Czech Republic. As regards the situation in the doses provided by EU countries, the situation is very different, i.e. European legislation is not unified and the level of support, for example, is not unified. for asylum seekers in individual countries. I know, for example. In Germany, where the aid is naturally higher than in the Czech Republic, it is currently being discussed whether the aid should continue to be paid in cash or whether it should be transformed into vouchers, vouchers for the provision of services in establishments that provide asylum seekers. So even in these countries that have higher support, there is, of course, a debate today about whether the support does not happen to be motivated within the current migration stream. About your other questions. So far, there is no agreement on a permanent mandatory redistribution system in Europe. Discussion's on. However, it is expected that the European Union would contribute a certain amount to the country concerned, which would take up asylum seekers and handle their asylum procedures. A contribution from the European Union can be assumed. With regard to citizens who would gain asylum and want to live in the Czech Republic, we have prepared integration measures to help them integrate into our society as best as possible. The key question is the possibility of working. In the new asylum legislation, which is currently in Parliament, it is expected that the period when they cannot accept legal work in the Czech Republic would be reduced to six months. This would really be shortened in the most necessary way and after six months it would be possible to use the offer of our employers for the employment of people who are waiting to process asylum procedures or have already received asylum in the Czech Republic. [[15.00 hours]] So here I think it is important that we allow these people to work as soon as possible so that there are possibilities of helping them learn language, integrating their children into the education system, and of course helping them get accommodation, because I do not consider it a reasonable solution for people who receive asylum in the Czech Republic to stay long-term in some mass housing facilities of the Ministry of the Interior. I think it is important that they are integrated into a society in cities and municipalities as soon as possible, e.g. they will be given the opportunity to work. So much very briefly. I definitely have to reject the fact that there would be some unification of the social benefits provided at the level of countries that provide support at a much higher level than the laws of the Czech Republic guarantee today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u23	Thank you. The Member seems to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u24	Prime Minister, the solution is simple. It would be ideal if the support in Czech countries for Czech citizens was the same or comparable as in Germany. Then there would be no attempt to have a country as targeted as Germany. I think those migrants know very well where the welfare benefits or benefits that await them after they arrive are much better. That's why they're going. If Germany is following this tendency that other states should participate, it should also consider this. And my question is whether you will also open this aspect at the meeting of the Prime Ministers that is about to take place. As I was informed, the ministers of the interior meeting did not find much consensus, or it is assumed that a summit will be convened, and that you should also open this issue - the difference between social systems in individual countries. In fact, this is the motivation that drives refugees to Germany and Scandinavia and not to us. If they stay with us or we are forced to, what force will we force them to stay and live with us if they know very well that the social system does not have German parameters?. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u25	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u26	Thank you. Dear Member, allow me to make three brief comments on your supplementary question. Firstly, this is a matter that the European Commission has not yet resolved. It's a question we're asking. When discussing the mandatory relocation mechanism for refugees, we ask what tools we will have for people who did not come to Europe to live in Romania, Poland or the Czech Republic to stay within the proposed quota system. According to the information we have at our disposal today, there will be absolutely no reason for us, for example. These asylum seekers were kept in detention facilities, which means they should be accommodated in principle with a completely free regime. Indeed, there are no legitimate reasons for keeping them locked away in some confined space. They will, of course, be able, if they decide to return to Sweden, to Germany and join the black labour market, because in such a regime they will certainly not get a work permit. So the problem isn't solved, and it's one of the questions we have if we're debating a system of mandatory redistribution. Otherwise, as I have already mentioned, this debate on the amount of benefits is being held not only in Germany but also in other Western European countries. I assume that this will also be the subject of discussion at the European Council meeting in this context.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister. The fourth was drawn with his intervention by President Petr Fiala and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u28	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, at present, I would have expected more than ever a single government procedure and a clear position in tackling the migration crisis. Sometime in June, July, the government announced that it would voluntarily or unwillingly accept some 1,500 refugees, but yesterday your party colleague and member of your government spoke of the possibility of receiving up to 15,000 people. Today, as we know, the European Parliament has approved an increase in the number of refugees that should be divided on the basis of mandatory quotas by another 120 000 people. I therefore ask what is the maximum number of people the government is willing to accept, how much the Czech government has prepared capacity and how these persons will be selected. I just remind you that according to official information from the Ministry of Interior, official and up-to-date from 16 September, the current capacity of the detention facilities is 1 368 seats, of which 920 were occupied on 16 September. If we count it, this means that the Czech Republic is operating with a spare capacity of 448 seats at the moment. Can you please tell, Prime Minister, what number of persons the government is now counting on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u29	I thank you, Mr President, and I will ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u30	Thank you. Let me just say, I am sorry, I forgot one more reaction to Mr Luzar's interpellation, and then I will immediately address Mr Fiala's interpellation. The contribution and its motivation for migration. Of course, there are people who are fleeing or leaving countries where there is no war and it is evident that there is more of an economic motivation for migration. That's where I think welfare plays a role. The question is what role they play in people fleeing the war, fleeing the Islamic State. Of course they have some preferences there, but above all social benefits play a role in those who may have left Kosovo. And even these days, if I go back to who, say, those illegal migrants are, for example. detained in the territory of the Czech Republic, so it is for example. and the people of Kosovo. On the question of Mr Fiala. At the beginning of the summer of this year, the European Union agreed to help by taking care of 40 000 people from those who came to Greece and Italy as refugees, and that we would also take care of 20 000 people from those who are now in refugee camps in the Middle East. So it was the division of 60,000 people within the European Union. We have rejected the compulsory quota system, which means that individual countries have given their contributions and these contributions have consisted of 60,000 seats for 60,000 people. This decision has already been approved by the Interior Ministers. This means, it is a project that has already been approved by the Interior Ministers and should be implemented and within this project, which concerns the assistance of 60,000 people, the Czech Republic has offered assistance to 1,500 people, a total of 1,100 people from those who have fled to Greece or Italy, and 400 people from those who are now in refugee camps in the Middle East. That's the 1,500 people. It has nothing to do with the capacity of the detention facilities, because we don't expect these people to be placed in detention facilities. Detention facilities are primarily intended for those who enter the territory of the Czech Republic without valid documents and are therefore detained in violation of our laws and regulations and are primarily intended for migrants who have the chance of returning them under appropriate asylum procedures or the Dublin Treaty. So we will not need the capacity of detention facilities, but we will definitely need the capacity of accommodation facilities for the extent of assistance offered by the Czech Republic. We're gonna need help from churches, municipalities, cities, employers. That is why a working group has also been set up at the Ministry of the Interior, which includes all these entities, and this is at the moment about what help we will be able to offer these people and how quickly. So this is project 1 500, which has already been approved at European Union level. There is now a debate on another proposal, because the European Commission has come up with yet another request, and that is the help of 120 000 refugees. This is another proposal that came from the European Commission, and we are fighting the exact same battle we fought last time. That is what we say: we do not want a permanent redistribution mechanism to be created, but let us build this assistance on the basis of voluntary contributions from individual countries. Once again, we are ready in the order of several thousand people to offer our help, to help these refugees within the Czech Republic, and we will proceed in such a way that it is, of course, proportionate to our economic possibilities, to the possibilities of the state budget, so that we can find jobs for these people. I remind you that employers have announced that there are several thousand places available that could be suitable for these people. But I am not going to say a specific number right now because I do not know if the European Commission proposal is the last, or if it is in three or four months, given that the migration current is not going to fade, the Commission will not come up with any further demands. [[15.10 hours]] So we will proceed gradually to be accountable to our citizens and guarantee compliance with all the security, social and economic parameters that must be linked to such a project. And we insist that we have the opportunity, for security reasons, to veto any possible assistance to one of these refugees if it turns out that any security risks would be associated with his arrival and stay in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister. The President is about to ask an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u32	Yes. Prime Minister, if I understand correctly, then the Czech government is counting on 1,500 people. I understand that. But I don't understand the second part of your answer, when you said it somehow depends on what the European Union or the European Commission agree on, because if I understand correctly your position, with which I agree, the Czech Republic rejects any quotas. And here I am going back to my original question. If we reject any mandatory quotas, any redistribution by the European Union, and we want to deal with all this on a voluntary basis, as your government repeatedly says, you must have an idea of some number that is acceptable to the Czech Republic, which the Czech Government wants. How many people the Czech government wants to be admitted to our territory. And here we are concerned about hearing different numbers. For example, yesterday your minister up to 15,000, so I ask you what number your government has in mind or calculated or analysed that the Czech Republic is able to accept. This does not depend at all on what the European Union will discuss when we reject mandatory quotas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u33	Thank you. The Prime Minister will answer you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u34	I have met repeatedly, honourable Member, that when the European Commission presented proposals to deal with the migration crisis, whether it was a problem to help 60,000 people or 120,000, there was always a proposal on the table, in addition to helping these particular people, to create a permanent redistribution mechanism that would operate on the basis of quotas and which would be decided by the European Commission. And we're always, and in my opinion, right, they said it had nothing to do with it and that we don't want to introduce it. This means that we are once again fighting to ensure that this mandatory redistribution mechanism does not arise, because nothing else has been created yet. It is being discussed about hotspots, there is talk of a security operation in the Mediterranean Sea, but that is only what we are talking about, and it is not finished, and I think that is what we need to start with. I hope we can agree here that quotas are not the solution to the migration problem, that this is the solution to the consequences that are here. With regard to our contribution to helping, say, 120,000 people, as the proposal has been put on the table by the European Commission, we simply want to discuss these figures with the other states. We want to talk to them about this, we do not want the European Commission to put a schedule on the table and it can no longer be discussed, because it is also important for us to know what commitments other countries will take, and we also need to know what we are able to absorb within the Czech Republic. I think our abilities were tested during the Balkan War, at a time when we were helping refugees fleeing the Balkan War. And I think that, to the extent of the capacities we have, we are able to take care of these people at present. So I would give the analogy to the Balkan war, and I would also like to say that we do not have to build some special capacity, rather we need to create networks, look for partners in the non-profit sector, between entrepreneurs, between municipalities, regions that will help us with projects to help these refugees and integrate those who want to live in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u35	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, with his intervention, will now prepare Mr Adam Rykala. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, colleagues, the fifth interpellation and everything is about migration, or mostly about migration, and yet another x-interpellation here is about it, so it's still an interesting topic. It's a shame we couldn't discuss it any longer yesterday, and those who were enrolled didn't get to it. My name "migration - protection of residents of the Czech Republic" or protection of the Czech Republic. Prime Minister, you mentioned recently that there is nothing to worry about, that you have no information that any of the illegals might be a jihadist or a fighter of the Islamic State, and that there might be some immediate danger. I don't know. I'm not of the same opinion as you. I don't know if you've consulted this thing enough with the Security Information Service. I don't have that kind of information, and I think that the Security Information Service is currently monitoring at least a few people who have come to us in recent months and could be connected to the Islamic State or are jihadists. I don't think we should underestimate the messages we receive abroad. For example, when Lebanon tells us that every 50th fugitive, that means two percent are radicals and jihadists. Even the svatý otec of papež František mentioned that there was danger. And if you're watching enough of what's going on abroad, and now I don't just mean in Serbia how they're radicalizing, but in France, Italy, and other countries, I'm quite concerned that you're trying to calm us down here, that everything's fine. It's definitely not okay, and I think we should definitely be more alert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u38	Thank you. Dear Member, honourable Members, I firmly believe that the government is on the lookout for what is available to it, and that we are using the tools that the government has for us to be interested in how security forces work and whether they are paying sufficient attention to what is taking place today in the Czech Republic and around the Czech Republic and the Middle East. However, I am convinced that the government's task is not to scare people unnecessarily, and at the same time it is the government's task to underestimate no risk. And in the meantime, we are simply trying to find a sensible, pragmatic path so that we do not frighten society, but at the same time ensure the clearly security interests of all our citizens, because people have the right to have the government take care of their fundamental security. That is why we also decided months ago, before this crisis began or this refugee crisis culminated, that we would strengthen the capacity of the secret services. The government gradually decided to increase their budgets so that they could gradually get new workers. I think that's a very important thing. This means strengthening the capacity of security intelligence services, ensuring that the issue of the Islamic State, the possible terrorist risks in Europe, is permanently among their priorities. I see two possible risks here. The first risk is the return of the fighters of the Islamic State to Europe. Many of these fighters return, return to Germany, return to Austria, return to Serbia and other European countries, for example. Of course, these people pose a potential risk, and we are working with the security services of other European countries on this issue, and this cooperation is very intensive. The second potential risk that exists here, which some foreign media also point to, is the possibility that some people will also come to the territory of the European Union to support some terrorist activities within this significant migration wave. This is why we monitor very closely what happens in connection with migration in the Czech Republic. And when I informed the citizens that we had no information that there was a risk of terrorist activity in the context of migration, I was precisely based on information that the government has officially at its disposal. I have repeatedly convened a meeting of the Security Council of the State, the Bureau of the Security Council of the State on the subject of migration. We will renegotiate this at a meeting that will be held at the end of September. And there is definitely coordination of all security forces that should be coordinated and that should communicate with each other so that some conflicts of competence do not prevent us from exchanging information, so that all security forces have sufficient knowledge to ensure the safety of citizens of the Czech Republic. [[15.20 hours]] There are risks here. It is not possible to deny them, it is not possible to defraud them in any way, but at the same time we want to provide the public with objective information related to the real security situation in the Czech Republic. I'd also like to draw attention to the risk there is. In refugee camps in the Middle East, there are also, naturally, various branches of terrorist organizations, including the Islamic State, which is a risk of radicalising people who are now in these refugee camps. So once again, one risk that objectively exists here and which, of course, cannot be underestimated or can be downplayed. I want to assure you, Mr Member, that the Government of the Czech Republic pays great attention to the security aspect of the current migration crisis, including the fact that we have so far been able to ensure that laws are respected in the territory of the Czech Republic, the rules of the Schengen area are respected, and that public order has not been violated as a result of the migration crisis. We strive, with all due respect for the dignity of people who try to migrate through our territory to Germany in order to comply with the laws of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm asking if you're going to ask a follow-up question. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u40	Thanks again for the word. Prime Minister, I can agree with you, of course, that there is no need to haunt our population. But if there is a risk, then the population must also be poured clean wine and said that there is such a risk. And I believe there is such a risk. As regards the increase of personnel or members of the intelligence services, if applicable. Police of the Czech Republic. OK, of course we're increasing, we've added money. But on the other hand, it's also necessary to realize that a police officer or a member of the Security Information Service or any secret service isn't raised in a year or two. Just to have a good man, it's a question - and now I don't want to touch women, it's also meant to be a member of staff - three, five years. Because until then, he's still just a sucker who doesn't know anything about police work, let alone the work of the Secret Service. And the return of the fighters of the Islamic State. Remember how you discussed the law in the government, I think, from your colleagues over there at Dawn who want -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u41	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u42	I'm just gonna finish a sentence -- who want to give a crime -- a service in foreign power -- I think it's the House press. And the government cut him off as such. I don't think you want to fight extra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u43	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u44	Thank you. First of all, honourable Member, the issue of returning Islamic State fighters to their countries of origin is not one of the security risks of the Czech Republic. Our Arab community, which lives in the Czech Republic, is one of the less numerous within the European Union and is one of those that is not radicalized in such a way that this risk is one of the main security risks of the Czech Republic. The problem of returnees from fighting in Iraq and Syria is the primary problem of Austria, Germany and some other countries, France, unfortunately also Serbia. And here it is important to cooperate with the security forces in particular of these countries. So we do not yet have such a case on the territory of the Czech Republic that someone who fought in the territory of the Islamic State would return here. That's the first thing. Second thing. I agree with you completely if we are to strengthen the capacity of the secret services, the military, the police, so it takes time, it requires a good selection of people and it requires their training. That's why I'm glad we started this last year, i.e. Last year we changed budgetary policy, creating economic preconditions for recruiting new people, recruiting in the military, in the police, gradually also in the security services, and thus these components will be better prepared for the risks ahead. However, I note that this was not the rule and that in recent years people were being released, places were being canceled, including security structures. It was interfering regardless of who would provide the relevant competences concerning the safety of citizens. So the trend here was negative. Our government has changed it and I think that we have changed it at the last minute in principle, given how the security situation around Europe has deteriorated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies that came to me. From 14.30 to the end of the day, Mr Kolovratník apologizes, from 14.30 to the end of the meeting today, Mr Milan Urban apologizes, between 16 and 18 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Roman Kubíček apologizes today, and for serious family reasons from 14.15 to the end of the meeting, Mr Petr Kořenek apologizes and from 18 o'clock there are personal reasons when Mr Jiří Koskuba apologises. And now, therefore, Mr Adam Rykala, with her intervention. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to interpel the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic on a minimum wage increase. Prime Minister, dear government, I would like to thank you for this helpful step, which we are moving forward again in ironing the mistakes of right-wing governments, which at the time of their work not only did they not want to increase the minimum wage, but they refused to increase it. I appreciate the pace of the minimum wage and your constructive dialogue with both employees and employers who will always find an acceptable compromise with you. People are not afraid to spend, and people are beginning to trust the Czech economy again. I wanted to ask you, Prime Minister, whether it is possible to continue to support this trend, i.e. whether the minimum wage in the Czech Republic can continue to be increased. And I also want to ask you, because some employers and the right-wing opposition are criticizing these steps, do you not think that there can really be an increase in unemployment by increasing the minimum wage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u47	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask the Prime Minister to respond to your intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u48	Thank you. Dear Member, we, as the Czech Republic, are now in a situation where we are growing economically. Luckily. We had the third fastest growth in the European Union in the first half of this year and unemployment decreased. We have 104,000 job vacancies today that the employment authorities know about. I do not think that in this situation anyone could seriously talk about raising a minimum wage of CZK 700 or CZK 1,400 in two years, as our government is doing, should have led to an increase in unemployment. The problem with our economy is different. The problem is that we have an inadequate structure in terms of education. It does not meet much of the needs of the labour market, and we lack qualified workers especially in technical fields, including university-educated technicians. That's the problem with our labour market. Definitely not raising a minimum wage. So I want to confirm that we want to keep doing this. Here's a very sad number. We are countries when we convert it into euro, which has one of the lowest minimum wages throughout Europe. And if we look at countries that have a lower minimum wage than we do, then perhaps, in principle, apart from Romania, we will not find too many other countries in Bulgaria. Definitely Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, not to mention Slovenia, not to mention Austria or Germany, so they certainly have a minimum wage higher than the Czech Republic. We were now in a tripartite exit meeting in Slovakia. We discussed with Slovak partners what the minimum wage is there. And on 1 January next year, Slovakia will have a minimum wage of 43 percent of the average Slovak wage. Our minimum wage will be increased by CZK 700 on 1 January at a level of 36% of the average wage in the Czech Republic. So we have 36 % of January 1 in relation to the average wage, Slovakia has 43 %. So it is evident that our minimum wage certainly does not reach a level that could in any way reduce the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. We're just falling behind in her size. And that's the only reason. Here, six seven years in a row, the minimum wage in our country has not increased by a crown. And I think he's very demotivated. We have agreed within the government that our goal is to increase the motivation to work, and a part of increasing the motivation to work is also the growth of a minimum wage. [[15.30 hours]] Therefore, this year on 1 January, it increased by 700, on 1 January next year again by 700 crowns and, of course, we will be discussing with the social partners in the first half of next year an increase which should be in 2017 to move from 36 percent closer to 40 percent of the average salary in the Czech Republic. The second thing that I think is important and which has succeeded this year is that the government has also agreed to increase the minimum wage for people who receive disability pensions. The minimum wage so far is CZK 8,000 gross and from 1 January next year it should be CZK 9,300 gross. It is also important that we find money within the state budget to support employers who employ people with disabilities, that is, those who receive disability pensions. In the long run, I do not consider it possible for there to be too many differences between the minimum wage paid by employees and received by those who have an invalidity pension. As far as the minimum wage situation is concerned, even though we have increased the minimum wage and will be, from 1 January 9,900 gross, still after tax, it does not exceed the existential minimum laid down for the individual. That means, here I think we need the minimum wage to really increase in the coming years. It must also be noted that a number of people who also receive minimum wage still have the cost of commuting to work, which is mostly what people who receive only social benefits do not have, so there may also be a significant difference between what a person who works for minimum wage and commutes to work every day to a neighboring city, and a person who does not work for a reason and receives social benefits. This, too, is another reason why minimum wage growth is needed, and our economy can afford it. At the same time, I also see this as a signal to the commercial sphere, because I think that even private companies should share these profits more with their employees at a time when the economy is growing, when its profits are growing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. I want to ask you, Mr. Ambassador, if you have an additional question. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u50	Thank you, Prime Minister. You partially answered me at the end of your speech to my supplementary question. I'll ask you anyway. Do you think it's okay that a lot of people are sitting at home on welfare benefits and it's worth more than going to work? Can you tell me - do you think that only the minimum wage level affects people sitting on doses, or do you have any recipes and other steps that you would like to take as a government to make people pay to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u51	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u52	Thank you. Perhaps just before I answer the supplementary question of the Member, I will just add my previous information when I was talking about countries with a minimum wage lower than the Czech Republic. It is precisely Lithuania, Romania, Croatia and Bulgaria within the European Union. All other states have a minimum wage higher than ours. That's the first thing. Second thing. Motivated to work. The problem of today's labour market in our country is low labour mobility. We have 104,000 registered job vacancies in the economy today, and besides, we have 450,000 registered people at the employment office looking for work. And we don't have this demand for an offer that exists here. I have asked the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs to focus on the analysis of what is actually the structure of the 450,000 people, how he is comparing us with the offer of new jobs in terms of individual regions, because I fear that many of these unemployed people are concentrated in regions such as the Ústí Region, such as the Moravian-Silesian Region, where 104,000 job vacancies are only a small fraction. We have a problem with the mobility of the workforce, and here I think we need to look for opportunities to inspire ourselves in other European Union countries, how we would be able to support labour mobility. The second option is that we will try to get investors to come to people especially in the Moravian-Silesian and Ústí Region, which means we will create opportunities to invest in these regions, we will create industrial zones in which new investors could come, who will employ people on site in a situation where we have low mobility from the point of view of these unemployed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u53	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping time. Mr. Václav Klučka is next in line with his intervention and Mr. Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues, in his programming statement, the government has committed itself, among other things, to ensuring the state's energy security, resilience to large-scale failures and supply failures and sustainable energy. It will continue to strive for environmental sustainability of energy and to maintain high security of energy supply while maintaining reasonable prices so that the Czech economy and, above all, the manufacturing industry are competitive. At the same time, the government has committed itself to maintaining energy raw materials for future generations and defending the interests of the State in determining the conditions for extraction and exploitation of minerals. Prime Minister, we're about halfway through our term of office. I want to ask: Is the government taking the right steps to meet all the objectives set by the government's programming declaration? You approved the updated state energy concept of the Czech Republic in May this year. I admit I have some doubts about some things there. It is, for example, on page 105, where developmental elements of what it will look like in the case of natural gas, alternative sources and domestic brown coal in 2040 are identified. It is clear to me that the concept is set for a medium-term, long-term period. Do you think this concept is really the tool we want to secure the whole area of energy of the Czech state?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister to respond to your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u56	Thank you. Dear Member, the government's task is primarily to take strategic decisions. Strategic decisions also concern the future of our energy. The last state energy concept was adopted in 2004, that is to say, it was very important that the government was able to agree on updating the state energy concept this year, and therefore a certain strategy for the development of the entire energy sector was set up. Energy is a key element of economic policy in the Czech Republic, especially because we are among the most industrial states in Europe. The industry's share of gross domestic product in the Czech Republic exceeds 30%. You don't see that much in Europe anymore. The European average is between 15-20 percent, so we really belong to the industrial core of today's Europe, and energy is crucial to us, because we need to ensure reliable, safe supply of electricity for our industrial companies. And electricity cannot be expensive not to reduce their competitiveness, and at the same time we need industry to reduce its energy intensity in order to avoid the fact that the price of electricity can also reduce its competitiveness in the future. So these are trends that are very important, and therefore energy is related to whether the Czech economy will grow in the coming years or not, and at what rate it will grow. The State has assumed responsibility through ASEK for the long-term direction of the energy sector. What is the responsibility of the state is primarily the basic energy infrastructure, science, research, education of energy experts. In ASEK, we tried to move forward from the point of view of the use of electricity sources. We are still counting on the production of electricity from the core, but renewable sources of electricity are second place, and only then do they follow the resources that count on gas and which count on coal. This means that ASEK means a shift in this direction, it means a confirmation of the production of electricity from the core and it means an increase in resources related to the production of electricity from the perspective of renewable capacity and renewable resources in the Czech Republic. [[15.40 hours]] However, we certainly do not want to go down a path that would exhaust public budgets, just as it did with the rapid onset of the use of solar resources in the Czech Republic. This means, in terms of public support for individual renewable resources, the government is ready to proceed very carefully and our aim is to create market conditions and our aim is not to create market distortions, which unfortunately occur throughout Europe precisely as a result of the fact that the emergence of renewable resources is very often associated with large public support. That brings me to the next topic. We also approved the strategy for the use of nuclear energy in the Czech Republic. The government has decided to secure a future for both our nuclear power plants, both for Dukovany and Temelín. In Temelín, respectively. At the same time, the government has decided to build the first power plant to build a new nuclear block, and the second nuclear block should be prepared at the Temelín plant, given that the nuclear power plant in Temelín is, naturally, a younger date. So these are other strategic decisions that the government has made, and I assume that we will also act at European level to ensure that even if an energy union is created, individual countries will have freedom of energy mix and will be able to decide in future what the composition of their energy resources will be depending on their natural conditions, depending on the situation of their industry, depending on the traditions that exist in these individual countries. So that's just a very brief thing to say. Of course, the aspect of energy security is related not only to enough electricity at competitive prices and to the reliability of supply of this electricity, but also to transport routes for those raw materials that we are not able to obtain ourselves in the Czech Republic. This is mainly about diversification of gas sources, diversification of oil sources and also about diversification of routes by which gas and oil can reach the Czech Republic. And here, too, we are working within the European Union to ensure sufficient energy security for the entire region of Central Europe in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Klučka will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u58	Thank you. Prime Minister, you have basically responded in the spirit of what is actually stated in the energy concept. nuclear fuel in 2040. This should be higher, the consumption of nuclear fuel should be higher by 54 percent. It's just a little example. But I'm sure you'll excuse one question I can't avoid. There's this brown coal where we should be at 8,6 percent of the basic raw materials in 2040. In 2010, it was 3.4. So, Prime Minister, what about the limits of brown coal that you will most likely consider in the near future, along with the representatives of the region concerned?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Prime Minister is in a hurry to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u60	Thank you. Dear Member, naturally the government, which has decided to update the state energy concept, cannot avoid also deciding what brown coal mining will look like in the Czech Republic in the coming years. The Ministry of Industry prepared four variants, which were subsequently supplemented by relevant studies concerning the development of the entire region. It is evident that those variants that would count on not breaking limits can have a negative impact on employment in the Ústí Region. It is also evident that if the limits were not broken either at the Bílina mine or at the ČSA mine, it would have a negative effect on enough coal especially for our heating plants in the Czech Republic. So in order to ensure the availability of brown coal and elementary energy security, I think it will be necessary to break the limits at the Bílina mine. When it comes to breaking the limits at the ČSA mine, this is still being discussed. There I am personally not a follower of this decision, because there I see very significant costs relating to the transfer of part of the villages or cities that lie on the route of the future mining. But it's a rather complicated discussion, and I suppose we should end it this fall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll read another note. Today, from 16.30 pm, the Minister of Health, doktor Svatopluk Němeček, apologizes for urgent work. Now next in line with his interpellation to the Prime Minister, and this is Mr Jan Zahradník, Mrs Jana Hnyková will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u62	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to address you with the following interview. The annual report of the Security Information Services for 2014 contains Chapter 2.2 Organized Crime, sub-chapter Activities of regional clientelistic groups, the following text: "Some lobbyist groups sought to gain influence on the operation of the National Park Administration Protected Landscape Area of Šumava, respectively. they tried to influence the future shape of the national park. In the interests of influence groups, the implementation of several disputed projects in the Sumava region, the possibility of land speculation or the extension of logging. This is also related to the effort to influence the National Park Act of Šumava. The future zoning of the park is a controversial point between conservationists and persons for whom the construction of the national park is a business objective." Since I have been in regional politics in southern Bohemia for 25 years, I also deal with regional policy in South Bohemia. the long-term issue of the Šumava National Park. I declare that I have always tried to influence the future shape of the Šumava National Park in my legal capacity. I tried to prevent the fundamentalist ecological view from being dominated, and much of Sumava was transformed into wilderness. I have always supported development projects in the Sumava region, e.g. building a cable car on the border. I strongly supported the Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava, and in this sense I repeatedly performed in the House. As a member of the Šumava National Park Council, I take part in discussions on the form of a care plan, the amendment to Act No. 114 and the resulting zoning of the Šumava National Park. It is a big surprise to me that the Security Information Service describes these activities in its annual report in a chapter dedicated to organised crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u63	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, given the time, I'm going to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u64	I wouldn't be surprised if it also affected all the mayors and mayors of the Sumava communities. Do you, Prime Minister, believe that the activities described in the BIS report, which are dealt with today and daily by mayors and mayors of Šumava communities, are organized crime?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u65	I thank you and ask the Prime Minister to answer your question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u66	Thank you. Dear Member, of course, it can be said in general that the government has the right under the law to impose tasks on the Security Information Service, i.e. generally, the Security Information Service has the task of protecting the economic interests of the State. If the Security Information Service wrote the information you quoted in that report, I assume there's a reason for that. I now find it difficult to speak as Prime Minister for the Security Information Service here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. If you have doubts about the reasons or the grounds on which the Security Information Service has prepared this report, then I would like to refer it to the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Control of the Security Information Service, which has the opportunity to contact the BIS and ask for an explanation of the grounds for this report, which has been published. I assume your political party has a representative there, i.e. it is possible to do such a question. I really cannot speak for the Security Information Service at this time and talk about the basis on which the BIS has formulated this part of its report. [[15.50 hours]] Otherwise, as far as your question is concerned, whether the activities of the representatives of self-government who express legitimate views are part of the activities of organised crime, I believe that they are not. The mayor, without a doubt, has the right, naturally, to interpret such an opinion of his council, if the council expresses any political opinion on how nature protection is to be developed, for example, in the immediate vicinity of the community.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u67	I'd like to ask, Mr Zahradník, if you'd like to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u68	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you are responsible for the government and therefore for the task of the BIS. I think the word from the word in the report really works for the mayors. I don't know, maybe before I ask you a question, if you wouldn't consider an explanation addressed to the mayors, who would disprove their fear of being followed like organized criminals. If I were to ask a question, a definition of conservationists appears in the final sentence. The question is, what is meant by the conservationists? What do you imagine, Prime Minister, under those conservationists who are said to be fighting to resonate with publicly and regularly elected representatives of self-government in Sumava?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u69	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u70	Dear Member, I didn't write the report. It was written and formulated by the Security Information Service. It is entirely legitimate to contact the Security Information Service and ask for an explanation of this report. However, I would like to point out that there may be business interests here related to the development of this part of the Pilsen Region or the South Bohemia Region. Thus, these entrepreneurial interests may conflict with the positions of government, municipalities, regions and may be efforts to promote business interests in some way. I think that the Security Information Service, if it is to defend the economic interests of the state and, say, if it is to defend the impartiality and independence of the state administration, is probably entitled to monitor such things. That is, if I am based on what is stated in the relevant report. I've already spoken about self-government here. I think that if people present legitimate opinions that come from their position within the structures of self-government, or from their expert conviction, expert opinion, political opinion, there is nothing wrong with that. Worse is when someone gets into an economic conflict of interest and promotes their particular economic interests, for example, by influencing the decisions of government or self-government. That's something that should definitely be the subject of security structures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u71	Thank you. The next in line with her intervention is Mrs Jana Hnyková and Mr Tomio Okamura will be prepared. For the sake of order, I say that, at 16 o'clock, there will be interpelations on individual members of the government. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u72	Thank you, Mr President. You all have a good afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, they're finishing wage negotiations in the last few days. I would like to focus on medical personnel in my interpellation, especially non-medical personnel, which means general nurses, laboratory technicians, physiotherapists and other auxiliary professions. Yesterday we had a second meeting of a working group for non-medical professions, and the whole act stretches like a red thread, that the lack of nurses is mainly due to their low pay grade. And I agree with that. The pay for the work done is low and the work demands are high. You've been with the government for almost two years, and you know what the health situation is. You know the legitimate requirements of the Health and Social Welfare Union, when trade unions long-term demand to unite remuneration in hospitals, on spreadsheet salaries in all kinds of hospitals regardless of their legal form. The current situation is unfair, and when nurses are evaluated differently in each hospital and the differences between salaries and wages are up to CZK 6,000 per month, I personally consider it even discriminatory, because they have different evaluations for the same work. The quality of health care provided is also related to the salaries of nurses and other employees. Sisters complain that they can't take care of their patients as they should and should, because of their lack, which is given not only by low salaries, but also by a poorly set staffing decree that allows, for example, for 40 helpless patients on the night shift, there is only one sister in LDN. My questions - there are several. What agreements have you reached? What percentage do you raise in health care? Next it is: Will you increase the funds to maintain the quality of care? Are you going to add new nurses to the hospital payroll? What will you do with the diversity of evaluations especially for nurses and other nonmedical workers to level out the injustice that lasts years and results in nurses becoming less and less in the health sector? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u73	Thank you for your intervention and I will ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u74	Thank you. Madam, I am aware of the problem facing the Czech health sector today, because we are coming across personnel limits, we come across the fact that our education system is very demanding, in many respects more demanding than in other countries of the European Union. This means getting a qualified doctor, getting a qualified nurse is a problem today, and it is linked to the requirement of higher education, it is now associated with the need for further education following this university study. So here we have limits that will be very difficult to overcome. I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies for support because the government has decided to submit a reform of doctor's education, and the bill is already at an advanced stage of preparation at the Ministry of Health. I think it should allow us to get more doctors for their direct involvement in our health care. The second problem we face is wage competition, which works here in Europe, works in Central Europe. Doctors in Austria, in Germany, of course, have a chance to obtain multiple salaries than doctors in the Czech Republic. The same applies to nurses. That means we have competition here that we can hardly catch up on in terms of the level of remuneration in our health care. But it means we can't afford to fall behind in too big a way. The problem is I know the government. That is why, as early as January 1 of this year when we could influence it, we have increased health tariff rates by 5%. This required the provision of funds in the form of a payment order in particular to hospitals. I am glad that a number of hospitals that did not have to raise tariff salaries are established by the regions and have the form of public limited liability companies, so government decisions have added and increased tariff salaries by 5%, and I am glad that the total numbers available to the Ministry of Health for the first half of this year show that overall health salaries have increased by 6 percent year on year for the first half of 2015. [[16.00 hours]] This means wage increases of 6 percent on average, higher pay increases for doctors, a slightly lower wage growth rate for nurses and other medical personnel. And I am glad that wage growth is real, which means it is significantly higher than inflation this year. We must continue to increase salaries, and I hope that we will be able to achieve a further increase in health tariffs from 1 January next year in order to cover both doctors and nurses and other medical personnel. We will be discussing a specific increase in salaries tonight with the Minister of Health and with union representatives, and I suppose we should be able to inform tonight about a proposal with which the Minister of Health will go to the government. So we are assuming an increase in tariff salaries from 1 January next year, and given that for other public sector employees, salaries should be increased by 3 % from 1 November this year, i.e. by 3 percent of the increase in tariff salaries, this applies in particular to police officers, firefighters, teachers, but also to people who work in financial offices or employment offices, so I believe that the increase in salaries for health professionals should be higher than 3% to compensate for the fact that this increase is taking place two months later than for other public sector employees. I'm not going to tell you a specific number right now because the negotiations are still ahead of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u75	Thank you. I am warning the Chamber of Deputies that it is 16 o'clock, and therefore the time has passed when it is possible, according to the Rules of Procedure, to give an oral interview with the Prime Minister. It is 16.01. - I apologize, Madame. [[To the messenger. Mosquitoes.]] We will now continue with oral interpelations on other members of the government. I therefore call on Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to give an interview to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u76	Thank you again, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'd like to begin with an interview. I'll wait for Broňa to tell the minister to hear me. [[Messenger. Schwarz is interviewing Minister D. Took.]] Bronvo, I need the minister to hear this. Minister, I am from the East Bohemia Region of Hradec Králové or the Hradec Králové Region, and I would like to ask you a simple question if you know which of the 14 regions of the Czech Republic has at least kilometers of motorways, and if you know this answer, of course, what is true is that after all the statements made by both the Prime Minister of this country and you, when we talked about the completion of D11 and R11, there is another major and you should have said that the money for this D11 completion is not again and probably someone has been better lobbied and will be coming to another section in the Czech Republic. So I would like to know where we stand and, therefore, whether D11 is still a priority for this government, as has been declared not only in our country, but also in international meetings with Polish representatives, who are also waiting for a clear position, because they must also respond with their completion to our position. Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and now Minister Dan Ťok. It's up to him to answer you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ondráček, I would like to declare here that what we have said means that there are priorities for this government in the construction of transport infrastructure and that these priorities are D11. You are right about one thing, that if you look at today's draft budget of the transport infrastructure fund, then there is no budgetary resources available at D11, but I would like to guarantee from this place both to you and to everyone else that even though there are no further requirements for us to have backup money there today, if we are able to get a building permit and get work started, we will get them in all sections of D11. Moreover, we also agreed with the Polish side that we would go from two sides, that is, from the border and the section that is right on the border with the Republic of Poland, that we would demand funds not from the Operational Programme Transport II, but from the CEF, which is border cooperation, and on this Czech side is active. At present, we are launching an archaeological survey on the D11 section - I think it's 1105. So it is quite high - the volume of financial needs is 600 million today, which is starting. We still want to act if there really is a need for such a large amount, even if it is a difficult matter. And currently there is or is going to be a tender in the section Hradec Králové - Jaroměř and I hope that we will start the implementation of this section at the end of 2016. So even though you can't see the allocated funds in the SFDI budget, I would like to guarantee you that at the moment we can build, and we are working very hard to get a building permit, we will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u79	Good afternoon. I thank the Minister for his reply. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u80	Thank you for those words. I'd like to tell you that I'm also a regional representative, so I know what kind of work we're doing there, and I think it's D11 and I'm not talking about R11 and I'm not talking about R11 and it's probably the biggest stage of readiness at the moment, whether it's land purchase or other things. So I'm a little sorry that there's no money in the budget, but I appreciate what you said, and of course I believe that we will move forward to kicking the ground next year and starting the road. Otherwise the Hradec Králové Region really has at least kilometers of highway in the whole Czech Republic. And you all go there because the Hradec Králové Region is also Spindleruv Mlýn, it is also Janské Lázně, it is also Pec pod Sněžkou and many of you go there to the mountains and you deserve to get to us better. I'm not talking about industry and other things that are connected to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u81	Thank you. Minister - I ask for an additional answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u82	I'm just explaining. When we were calculating the money we have in the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, we allocated it to events that we can start in January and February. D11 has a presumption sometime in the second half of the year, but I guarantee from this place, and so we agree with the Minister of Finance Babiš that the financial shortage will never be a reason that we can't start. It's gonna be administrative stuff. I hope that we will remove these too very quickly, and I would like to thank the Hradec Králové Region for the help we have in the preparation of these buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u83	I thank both the Member and the Minister. The second interview will be given by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. He will intersect the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček with regard to the use of stem cells. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u84	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, almost a year after the public hearing of the subcommittee on the economy in health, health insurance and pharmaceutical policy on the right of use of stem cells for treatment, the State Institute for Drug Control, using the opinions of the European Medicines Agency, concluded that stem cells in the applied orthopedics applications, diabetic feet, etc. are used in a non-basic function, therefore they are medicinal products for modern therapy and fall under the regulation of medicinal products. Since they have not yet been registered, they can only be filed within the limits of narrow exceptions. In orthopaedic applications, ambulances could only benefit from an individual exception under Section 8 of the Act on Medicines. [[16.10 hours]] The available information on cases from Prague clinics indicates that Cellthera processing cells has the permission of SÚKL, but at least two necessary conditions have not been met in the treatment of knee joints. Neither in the context of promotion nor in the context of instruction have patients been familiar with the fact that the applied cells are an unregistered medicinal product, and apparently every use has not been reported to the State Institute for Drug Control. Already many patients in various ambulances throughout the Czech Republic succumbed to misleading advertising and had their stem cell injections injected into their knee joint in good faith that it would cure their knee arthritis. Their health has not improved in many cases, but has significantly deteriorated and had to undergo surgery. In these cases, the administration of stem cells should be assessed as unlawful and all available treated patients would be entitled to compensation for potential harm. At the same time, they would be entitled to reimbursement of paid money, as their informed consent as well as the contract to provide and pay for stem cell therapy would be affected by a serious legal defect. Such a money-back dispute is already under way against I.P. Pavlova's clinic. I ask you, Minister, that the Ministry of Health and the State Institute for Drug Control strongly intervene against misleading advertising in the media and on the Internet when offering treatment with stem cells to certain providers in indications where their effect has not been demonstrated or where it cannot even be proven, especially in so-called so-called. treatment of knee joint arthrosis with stem cell injections often for an average of 35,000 crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u85	Thank you very much, Members. I'll ask the Minister of Health for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u86	Mr President, honourable Members, as far as stem cells are concerned, this is probably a subject that we could talk about for a very long time. One part of it is a matter of application in many indications of very promising methods, which are still in experimental phase, and it has not been fully convincingly demonstrated the effectiveness of these methods to be covered by health insurance. That's why it's not. What Mr Hovorka has come across is a matter that we have been dealing with about a year ago, with the fact that, indeed, clients of these private establishments are often exposed to misleading advertising because there has not been evidence of a real clinical effect anywhere. On this basis, we have dealt with the matter and already at that time we have approached the regional authorities, which are actually registering bodies of these facilities and have the right to check whether these devices comply with the conditions of registration and do not violate in any way legal standards, where we have just pointed out this issue. In essence, we have called on these registering authorities to address this matter. This year, the ethics commission of the Ministry of Health, which expressed itself in a very similar way, met again on this issue. I must say that the matter is not entirely simple, because even from the point of view of the professional public and of the various professional societies that are associated with the Society of Jan Evangelista Purkyně, there are different views and it is not entirely easy to take a clear and clear position. However, until this is the case, before it actually proves professionally whether or not this method has any meaning, the Ministry of Health will, say, stand up for this more conservative line and not recommend that this method be recognised. Thank you for pointing out that there is some kind of media ad in progress or on the Internet. We haven't noticed that yet. I will ask our office to deal with this and to sanction this infringement in some way with the fact that I will therefore ask the Member to send him a detailed opinion, detailed documents from the Ministry for this, because it is a very complex issue, and the nuances are very subtle, in some way, to interpret all the pitfalls and all the procedures of the various institutions and their positions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u87	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u88	Dear Minister, thank you for the assurance that the Ministry is intensive about this and that it is dealing with the regional authorities. I want to point out that this is a big case, or a lot of cases where people here have been injected into their knee joints and haven't really improved, but they've gotten worse and had to have knee joint surgery, so they've actually spent money for nothing. As far as I know, an expert committee at the Ministry of Health even proposed a new, relatively lucrative performance on the list of performances, although stem cells fall under the regulation of advanced therapy medicinal products, whose remuneration is to be governed by legal rules for the reimbursement of medicinal products, not rules for the reimbursement of performances. Therefore, it follows that even professional companies here may not be able to assess the performance from the point of view of its competence, but they must follow the rules for the registration of medicinal products. If the Ministry wishes to comply with the legal regulations in force and if it is based on the opinion of the SÚKL that stem cells are a medicinal product for modern therapy, then three options for providing and financing are offered. This is the approval of a clinical study at selected sites, approval of a specific treatment programme and individual submission under the Drug Act. [[Attention on time.]] These are three options for this use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u89	The Minister is coming with an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say here that, on the supplementary question, the Member has moved the subject somewhere else, because what we talked about in the first part was the use of fat stem cells to indicate the treatment of arthritis. This is the stem cells in the indication of diabetic leg, essentially to support new vascular tissue. There I must say that even though the expert company recommended that this be covered, the ministry remains conservative and will certainly not include this performance to be covered by health insurance until the results of the clinical trials are clear. As far as consumer deception is concerned, in essence, in the indication concerning osteoarthritis, I think our position is entirely consistent, and we will certainly continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u91	Thank you, Minister. We will proceed to the third interpellation by Mr Michal Kučera. He will intersect the absent Minister of Agriculture on the matter of toxic substances in the Elbe. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u92	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister Jurečka, this year, high levels of highly cancer-forming polychlorinated PCBs have been detected in the middle stream of the Elbe. Significantly elevated PCB values in water samples and sediments from Ústí nad Labem to the German border were notified at the beginning of July. Based on the results of analyses from the second quarter of 2015, it has been shown that the PCB content in sedimentable floats has increased significantly in recent periods, in samples taken at the measuring station in Děčín. The content of polychlorinated PCBs in lab water in the section Ústí nad Labem on the state border is also increased. I don't have to remind you that PCB is a highly cancerous substance and that on the banks of the Elbe River, people bathe, play children, fish are being hunted. Minister, I would like to ask you in this way how and when the public was informed about the increased incidence of cancer-forming PCBs in the sediments of the Elbe - first of all. Secondly, what measures have already been taken in this regard to protect the health of the population.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u93	I thank Mr Kučer. His question will be answered in writing. We will proceed to the fourth interview, when Mr Ivo pojezdný will interpel the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the interference of the RVP ZV-LMP. The absent Madam Secretary. And I'm looking forward to finding out what an RVP ZV-LMP is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u94	Yes, I'd like to explain. Ladies and gentlemen, my interpellation to the absent, then, Madam Secretary. The Minister, in the professional pedagogical but also lay public, is currently discussing very lively the intention of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to abolish the attachment - and I will now say this - of the Framework Education Programme for the Education of Children with Light Mental Disabilities. The abolition of this annex in practice means ending effective and quality education for pupils with mild mental retardation, a system that was based on a long-term professional methodical and organisationally very well-thought-out approach developed by generations of special educators, psychologists, doctors, psychiatrists, but also other experts. [[16.20 hours]] Therefore, by repealing the amended Annex to the LMP in education, a systematically sophisticated, highly erudized system of education for these children is abolished. Its aim was to achieve the maximum possible education of pupils with mental disability and consequently their application in practical life. I wonder if you personally understand the limits and risks of impenetrable inclusion, especially with regard to children with mental disabilities, whether this annex will be replaced in some way, and I also wonder if the abolition of this annex will mean the end of practical primary schools in the final stage. If I am well informed, the public opposes this intention. There was a petition signed by more than 68 thousand citizens of the Czech Republic in the final phase. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u95	Thank you, honourable Member. His question will be answered in writing. I'll hand over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u96	Next is Mr. Petr Gazdík, who will interpel the present Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u97	Dear Minister, the state and, above all, the capacity of the Army of the Czech Republic is critical. This situation is graduating, and I am not saying that it is you, but the situation is only deepening, by far not only in the case of the huge internal debt described in the White Paper on Defence. Last April, NATO criticised the amenities of the Army of the Czech Republic with the fact that it would be completely useless in the event of a real crisis situation. According to NATO reports, units are in the worst condition to provide support to first-line soldiers, i.e. artillery, air defense or supply. Minister of State of the Ministry of Defence Daniel Koštoval then declared that this was the worst evaluation in the last five years. The former Chief of Staff, Mr Pavel, has expressly stated that in the event of a major crisis, supplies will be sufficient only for a few days and without the occupation of advances and partial mobilization of the army is unable to carry out its tasks during the crisis. After such a statement, I would expect a major shock. I therefore ask what plans the Ministry of Defence has on large-scale crisis situations if the current less than minimal numbers were not sufficient. Do we even have a variant like this? What did the current Chief of Staff mean by the deployment of 2,500 soldiers would cause serious problems? Am I to understand that this country has no backup other than a few hundred soldiers in the event of a crisis? When was the last time a real, pre-announced alarm was announced? How many soldiers would actually make it to the barracks at this point when extra units are unfulfilled and tens of percent? How many operational techniques do we have, how much do we have for backups that are constantly being talked about and that still don't exist? For example, could centralized ammunition warehouses be able to supply all units in the event of a training alarm? I therefore ask you, Minister, what steps have you taken to change the current critical state of the Army of the Czech Republic for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u98	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear fellow Members, through Madam President, of course, the balance can be colored in grim shades and I am not saying that there is no reason for criticism or, say, for reservations. But I have to say that in that year and a half things have succeeded and improved. I should probably start with the financials, as they usually do, in two ways. One is that we are trying to invest our existing finances more economically and that we may be able not to follow up on a relatively long series of flagrant cases of ineffectiveness or even worse, but also in a simple increase in the budget that is evident. Of course, we can discuss how dynamic it should be more or less, but it is an undeniable fact. What is, say, outside the category of funding or closely related to it, is a conceptual long-term intention. That's the material that's finally done. It was delayed a little by the change of chiefs of the General Staff, but on 30 September at the Security Council of the State will be submitted for discussion. It's a material that determines what the army needs for the next ten years, how much it needs and why it needs it. I think that such material is a contribution to some predictability, a contribution to rational planning, and it is also an obstacle to various creative improvisations, which then lead to various inefficiencys. I would have liked to refer to some of the last year's statements as media, as being deliberately expressive, provocative, negative. I think it didn't benefit our citizens' trust in the military, that it just isn't true. We achieved quite a success last year, our brigade group received NATO certification. There was a whole generality at the exercise, and they were all out of the performance of our soldiers, I must say, even enthusiastic. That there's a serious problem putting in 2,700 men in case... It is a serious problem in terms of some kind of long-term planning, it is no serious problem in terms of the needs of the country. I think that part of the General Staff - and thank God this voice weakens and weakens essentially by the exchange - but it preferred really foreign actions and did not always realize that the army is here primarily to ensure the safety of the citizens of our country and this country. If we have a migration problem, then some exercises just cancel out, so it just reaches out, and maybe even quite bloody - and I don't want it to happen, but of course there is the possibility and total forhont and priority gets the security situation in our home, including the occupation of advances. For your information, there are 1,250 at the moment. You probably know that at the next meeting, the amendment to the defence law will be discussed at second reading, which should make the use of active advances substantially easier. At least I'll be able to get a sentence on the ammo. We have spent more than a billion on ammo in the last period, so stocks have improved considerably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u100	Thank you. I ask the Member - he wants to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u101	I have two follow-up questions. First of all, Minister, please, if you can answer me if the army actually expects a real, undisclosed alarm to ever be announced and it will be tried in practice if we are functional, if it is not just words. Second thing. You said we were buying a much more economical ammo. Here's information that we want to buy two more Casa planes, and that's more expensive than Vlasta Parkanová used to buy them, which is now in court. Is it economical to dispose of military property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u102	I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u103	Well, I can't say here that we're gonna sound some kind of alarm because then it wouldn't make sense to declare it. So I can answer in the sense that the continuous ability of intervention or emergency is controlled permanently. I do not rule out the fact that we are going to touch on something that you have indicated here, Mr Mr President. So it did not happen during my time, so that I would answer clearly and briefly. As far as CASA planes are concerned, I really don't know where you got that information from, because the last ambition of any defense minister is to buy time more expensive than Mrs. Parkanová. That would really be a hussarian stunt, and I don't think anyone has that ambition. We need to think about replacing the two yaks we're leaving, one in 2016, one in 2017. The 2016 one is basically written off for many reasons. If we're replacing them with two CASA planes, it's not clear at the moment. It's an elaborate theoretical plan, but already - I can't say the exact bid price, but of course it's unthinkable to be at a price comparable to the previous one, regardless of how many years have passed since then and the price could actually be quite logically higher. It's not conceivable to be taller. But it's not clear at all that time will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u104	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking the next one in order to give his interpellation. This is Mr Valenta, who will interpel the present Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u105	Dear Minister, many renowned experts draw attention to the significant health risks that occur especially with the influx of refugees from Africa and the Middle East to Europe. One such expert is e.g. oncologist and hematologist Professor Pavel Klener. In the media, he said that he could not imagine, in connection with the new health problems with immigrants, that he could meet the constant demands for increasing the resources for health care for Czech citizens in this area. It adds that in any case the level of health care in the Czech Republic will be threatened. But I do not want to talk about the fact that he also called the integration of refugees, especially arab. From you, Minister, I am interested in two things. Firstly, how you will ensure, as Minister of Health, especially financially, that the level of medical care in the coming years does not fall especially in our situation, when many of our fellow citizens already have significant problems financing their health problems. Secondly, I beg you to write down a material containing a detailed description and a list of all health threats, in particular, but not just infections that may potentially affect our citizens in connection with personal contact with migrants from African countries or Middle East countries. The degree of their health risks, how this risk can be minimized and also how the Ministry of Health is prepared to fight this health risk. Is there any effective prevention system in our country at all, even if in this context at least only prevention primary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u106	Thank you and I will now ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked to respond here to what measures we will take to ensure that the quality of health care provided and its accessibility to citizens does not fall in the coming years, even if we are to respond in writing to measures relating to our steps to minimise increased infectious risk in the context of migration, so I will stick to this challenge. I think that the level of health care in the Czech Republic, given the financial resources we spend on this care, is top-notch. The Czech Republic is fully comparable to the most advanced health states in the world, and while the United States gives from its gross domestic product, if I am not mistaken, it is between 15 and 17 percent of the US, the Czech Republic gives 7.4 percent of the Czech. I think the level we're achieving for these finances is admirable, and it's a bit of an example of a little miracle. As regards the availability of this care for every citizen, regardless of how it is financially, I think there has also been a major improvement in the situation under this government. Regulatory fees for examinations by an outpatient specialist, a physician were abolished and the regulatory fees for stays in a hospital or in long-term hospitals were abolished. I think that none of these steps is going to make the availability of care worse for citizens who, let's say, are not doing very well financially. I confess that in this I am optimistic that none of the steps that we have taken, as we are going to do here, will make the quality and availability of health care worse. It must be said that the government as a whole also increases the resources from the public system to the Czech health system. The State's contribution for payment for state insured persons has been repeatedly increased, which has helped to strengthen the stability of the Czech health system. But of course the challenge here will be permanent, because the technological possibilities of medicine in the world are increasing very dramatically, all of these technologies are very expensive, patients are very well informed through new media, what they are entitled to, and their expectations are also increasing. And the demographic situation is regulated by the fact that we live to be older and older, and as is the case, as older and older citizens have higher health care requirements. So, yes, the tension is probably here, we're not going to get rid of it, it's going to solve all the systems around the world. I guess we won't be the exception. But I say, I am optimistic, so far the situation is going very well, even improving, and I hope that this will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u108	I thank the Minister for his words. Mr Valenta has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u109	Minister, I did not request your answer in the sense that you will describe to me the current list of achievements of the coalition government in the field of health. I was more concerned about how you would provide money if tens of thousands of migrants were placed in our Republic, the level of our medical care. How do you just anchor it at that point where the care is today? Because I think that as far as our budget is concerned, which is under Mr Babiš's strong economic influence, health care does not have a chance to grow in the future. And I would also like to add, as far as the required material is concerned, I would like to work out a very detailed one, I would not like a flat-rate answer. I would need this to be a very exhausting way so that I can give it to all the citizens of this country and expand it, because this problem is really going to grow, and people really don't know how they are doing with some of the infections that come here from some foreign, virtually. exotic countries, advise. So I'm asking you to work this out really responsibly so that we don't have to deal with this here again at the House of Deputies Forum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u110	Please, Minister, you have the floor for your follow-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the detailed descriptions of measures to minimise infectious risks, I have already prepared this in a very comprehensive way for this interpelation, but given that the Member has said that he does not want it here, but I have to send it in writing, so I have not read it here, but I believe that we will extend it and it will indeed be very detailed, very detailed, and it will also be useful for passing it on to other citizens. As for how the public health insurance system will eventually deal with tens of thousands of incoming people, I firmly hope that tens of thousands will not occur, but the situation is turbulent and dramatic and anything is possible. On the other hand, we already have about 400,000 foreigners here in the Czech Republic who live here and either are involved in the public health insurance system or are dealing with it in a different way, and the system is handling it so far. Of course, any person who doesn't have his own income and who doesn't contribute as a payer to the system and will draw, increases some kind of tension, but if it isn't really dramatic numbers, I don't see a completely fundamental problem in this one, even though it's not simply from the point of view of providing that care, as you deal with these people, how, let's say, from the point of view of their habits, the diseases that occur there, prevent it and treat it, but if those numbers, as you speak, the system doesn't completely collapse, and I see the risks and the negatives somewhere else. I don't pretend they are, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u112	I thank the Minister for his follow-up response. We will proceed to the seventh interpelation, when Mrs Radka Maxová will interpel the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok in the case of the Žďák Bridge and inaction. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am addressing you in connection with the repair of the Žďák bridge. We have already talked about this in April of this year. In short. The repair of the Žďák bridge has been mentioned for ten, if not fifteen years, and its repair is still in sight. On my interview number 20 from April this year, you replied that ŘSD has already agreed with adequate repair companies and nothing prevents the bridge from finally being put into service. Even the answer said: the bridge should be repaired this year. The bridge was five years in a state of narrowing the passage width, limiting speed and limiting the load of the bridge, so for five years all freight transport had to pass on small district roads this bridge. At the beginning of June, the bridge was finally closed and should have been repaired by winter. Citizens were at peace with the need for a correction, although for most of them this bridge is literally and vital to the letter. Many of them commute through it for work, which in the finals means that instead of five to ten kilometers, they can also travel 30 to 60 kilometers or more a day. Others had a lot of small companies in his neighborhood that they could take credit for and have to pay them back, and they're basically failing right now. [[16.40 hours]] The bridge finally started crashing on 8. 6th of this year, 14 days of very intense work was carried out on him, which basically did the only one - they divided the bridge so that it was clear that it was simply physically and technically impossible to cross, and that was the end of the work. All summer, nothing seems to happen on the bridge, although the weather was more than good for this kind of work. The mayors of surrounding municipalities, including companies and local citizens, are writing a petition these days that they wish to address to adequate authorities, including the entitlement to compensation, which brings about constant non-solving of this issue to the surrounding residents who depend on the transitability of the bridge for life. Dear Minister, can you please tell me why the work is not continuing or whether it continues and how, as promised and when the bridge can be repaired.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u114	I thank the Member and ask the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I do not have a very good report for Mrs Maxová, through Mr President. Žďák Bridge is an important technical monument to our bridge construction. Among other things, leading experts in their fields are involved in its repair, who very carefully supervise the quality of the work done and comment on its scope. The fact that a number of constructions and elements are covered has already been clearly stated in the tender documentation is therefore their condition and the associated scope of the works can be clarified only after they have been uncovered. These parts are currently being identified by their actual state of affairs and decisions are being taken on the manner and extent of their corrections. These procedures must subsequently be properly discussed and agreed and subsequently processed by the relevant technological regulations and ensured the completion of the other processes necessary for their implementation. The work is done in such a way that it is extremely gentle on its own bridge construction. The quality of the work carried out remains a major priority. The period of implementation of the correction has already been set in the tender documents for 28 months. In view of the transfer of the construction site and the subsequent start of repair of the bridge in June this year, it can be assumed that the repair of the Žďák bridge will not be completed until October 2017. The initial timetable for the reconstruction between 2013 and the summer of 2015 was not met due to my previous judicial review of the selection procedure. Currently, due to the low water state under both bridge supports - it is roughly the lowest water state in the last 50 years - the Czech Road and Motorway Directorate of the Czech Republic has approached the remediation of both main bridge arch supports. The Regional Authority of the South Bohemia Region issued its own permit for the closure of the bridge, which also established adequate mobile routes in the decision. According to the relevant decision, the current bridge closure is allowed until mid-December of this year. For technical reasons, it is not possible to reopen the bridge at least temporarily for limited road traffic or for pedestrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u116	I thank the Minister and the Member is satisfied, but she only has such a minor supplementary question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u117	She's not even a question. I would just like to ask you, Minister, if you would like to focus on this construction, because it really is quite expensive for the locals of the 30 to 60 km route. I guess the petition goes where it's supposed to go, and it's gonna be dealt with, so just if you think of it as a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u118	I thank the Member and the Minister, who seems to take this as a priority. We will proceed to the eighth interview, when Mrs Marta Semelová will interpel the unfortunately absent Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the abolition of the LMP decree. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u119	Thank you. It's already been said on this subject, but I'd like to add it to that. I wonder why the educational programme of Annex LMP, adapted to the needs of pupils with mild mental retardation, is being abolished. Within the framework of the introduction of inclusive education, i.e. joint education, this education programme cannot affect the course of inclusion. However, its abolition will significantly affect the training of pupils with mild mental retardation who will not be educated according to their needs. Is this not discrimination in the education of pupils with mild mental retardation? Teacher's assistants and support measures cannot replace this training programme. Next, how will the educational content in custody be adapted to the cognitive abilities of pupils? This is a modification of outputs in individual teaching subjects, e.g. the definition of minimum outcomes for pupil education to reach primary education. And one last question. I wonder how the curriculum will be adapted in relation to the need for pupils with mild mental retardation in the teaching of a foreign language, another foreign language and the use of an available time subsidy for the area of Man and the world of work. The framework education programme for basic education does not take into account the education of pupils with mild mental retardation in view of their possibilities and abilities. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u120	I thank Mrs Semelová, she will be answered in writing. We will proceed to the ninth interview, when Mrs Gabriela Pecková will interpel the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová on the matter of residence services. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u121	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you about the deinstitutionalisation of residential services for children under three years of age, generally called infant formulas or children's centres, and how it is with the establishment of an age limit for placing children in such establishments. The National Child Rights Strategy 2012-2018, which was approved by the Government, clearly states that this is the way in the right direction, and 2015 should have been the year when this process was to be clearly set and started. So I would like to know what it looks like with the reduction of medical residence services, where many research shows that the stay of the smallest children in these facilities is very negatively linked to their development. Nowadays, we have a very well-established opportunity to place these children in foster care, especially in foster care for a temporary period of time. So I would like to know what steps are now up to date and what is the timetable for reducing residential services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u122	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Members, thank you for this question. At this point, we are actually in the preparation of the law, where we would like to introduce the same words, so that most of the services, institutional services for caring for children, that is, both for infants and for children's homes, go formally under the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, and that such a roof law should be established, which is intended to provide those vulnerable families with children with the most appropriate services. And the unification of at least most of the various services under one resort is here because we would like to use the funds for this as effectively as possible for those families with children involved. Now that we're paying, when a child happens to be in a school facility, that's what education is, when he's in health care, it applies to health, when he's somewhere in ours, so we're paying it, and there's a lot of noticing, and there's definitely no efficiency. Otherwise, at this point, we are actually debating whether the age limit should also be strictly defined in the bill, or whether we are going to let it fall gradually by some other measures. We haven't quite figured that out yet. [[16.50 hours]] However, the good news is that at this point, and I am adding this to the last amendment to the Child Welfare Act, the number of children in institutions, whether in those three years or in children's homes, is actually plummeting visibly, and the number of children in foster care is increasing, even in foster care for a transitional period. However, at this point, we are still working more and more towards enlightenment. We are working with the regional authorities on this - we may have found that there is a form in some maternity homes that sign mothers who want to give up their children, and it says that the child is going to a nursing home. There is no variant of foster care for a transitional period at all. And it's clear, of course, that mommy, if she signs it at that point, she won't be able to tell. So maybe we were going that way again. We have sent all the regions now freshly to make sure that they are actually used by foster parents for a transitional period, and not that children are sent to nursing homes unnecessarily. And now there is also a fresh agreement with the new Minister of Education that there would really be consent for children's homes to go to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The discussion with the Department of Health is kind of still going on. It is, of course, not an entirely simple process. And as for the time horizon, I would like to have a roof law that would better define the services, say at least the parts that would be united here, so I would like to make it, of course, during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u124	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Pecková has an additional...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u125	[[From the O.R.]] Madam Secretary also answered the supplementary question, so thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u126	Such an interplay between the coalition and the opposition is rare and it is appropriate to thank both ladies for it. Another interpelation, the tenth, my Member, Věra Kovářová, who will interpel the absent Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová on the funding from the programme after 2007 to 2013. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u127	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. Unfortunately, it is clear that part of the appropriations from the 2007 to 2013 programming period will not be used up. It's about exactly how much money it's going to be. However, our common interest is, of course, that it should be as small as possible, even if the report of the Supreme Audit Office from this summer, which talks about up to 105 billion. The koruna, it suggests a very adverse scenario. I would therefore like to know the current estimate of the Ministry of Regional Development, which, I believe, taking into account the latest information can be more favourable than the information presented by the SAO a few months ago. Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u128	They thank the lady, she will be answered in writing. And we will proceed to the 11th interview by Mr Vladimír Koníček, who will also interpel the absent Minister of Finance of Andrej Babiš on the application for payment of VAT. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u129	Dear Minister, two months ago, I intersected you from this place on 9 July and asked you when you, as Minister of Finance, would start collecting value added tax from the YES 2011 movement. You were not present, which is why I reminded you of the second day when the electronic sales log was being discussed to improve the tax collection. You answered me - I quote: Yes, the YES movement will pay the tax, so I can calm you down. So I remained completely calm. What was my surprise when I received a written reply to my interpelation. In this reply, you claim that the billing of services per year for more than four million crowns is not an economic activity and the party will not pay any tax. I'm asking you, Minister, to whom I should trust your statement. Here on the microphone you say you'll pay the tax, write that you won't pay anything. One of these statements of yours isn't true. Can you tell me which Babiš I should trust?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u130	Here too, you will learn which of these two statements is true, in writing. We will proceed to another interview, when Mr René Číp will also intersect the absent Minister Kateřina Valachová on the matter of Hitlerjugend Jamnitz. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u131	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Madam Secretary, at the end of the holidays, a children's knowledge contest was held in Třebíčsko, which demonstrated their knowledge of World War II. The primary school from Jemnice sent a team called Hitlerjugend Jamnitz to this competition. These pupils from the eighth or ninth classes of this primary school were dressed in period clothing, including symbols of the hook cross. After mediating this event, the school principal Zdeněk Hirt decided to defend this act when he literally said - quote: What do you not like about it? Madam Secretary, if this symbolism is used by supporters of the radical right and neo-Nazis, this is clearly a criminal offence. It wasn't a theatre performance where you could possibly understand it, it was a knowledge contest. It's not about punishing these kids at all, but I don't think the headmaster of the school who admitted this is the right person in the right place. I can't imagine what would have happened if this team had gone to an international competition in Germany with this name and this kind of arrangement. I think it's a spit on the victims that Nazi ideology lost their lives or families during World War II. I therefore ask you to examine the matter and draw conclusions for the responsible and thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u132	Thank you, Mr Číp. We'll proceed to another interpellation. Mr Jan Farský will intersect the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček with regard to the critical lack of doctors. And as I see it, the Minister has already left us obviously, apparently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u133	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the Minister how he is prepared to deal with a situation that is familiar to hospitals throughout the Czech Republic, a situation where doctors in almost all fields are absent. This is partly due to the fact that a lot of doctors retire, a lot of doctors go abroad, and also by the fact that it is a very long and complex education itself. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether the critical situation that many hospitals are getting into, but also many areas, whether he will react to it in any way and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u134	Thank you, honourable Member. The Minister is not really present, so a written reply will be sent to the honourable Member. Mrs Zuzana Kailová, who will interpelise the present Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on stopping speedsters in Duchcov, will present the 14th interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I appeal to you on the matter of the planned restrictions on the transport service of Duchcov in the Ústí Region. The letter from the Ministry of Transport, which was sent to the city management, shows that next year there will be a restriction on stopping most of the express links in the railway station Duchcov. The transport results cannot fully justify stopping long-distance rail trains in this station, it is apparent from the opinion. At a time when this region is facing high unemployment, daily travel to larger cities is the only way to get a job. The best possible transport service must be a priority in promoting and developing labour mobility. We shouldn't go the other way. I want to ask you in this matter to explain the Ministry's step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u136	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Transport has long followed the issue of the low number of passengers entering and leaving this railway stop into long-distance connections as part of the order of the line R5 Prague - Ústí nad Labem - Cheb. The R5 trains stop on average after 10.1 km in the Ústí nad Labem - Chomutov section, which is an extremely frequent stop for long-distance trains leading to the extension of driving times and flattening of the train's long-distance character. These indicators are available to the customer on the basis of the addition of passengers entering and exiting from transport campaigns carried out at least three times in each timetable period, as well as the number of travel documents sold from and to this station. Both data sources confirm that individual R5 trains are boarding or disembarking in Duchc's passenger units, and in addition, the dominant majority of these passengers use the train to travel within regional transport. Regional transport on the line Ústí nad Labem - The bridge is secured by passenger trains that run in an interval of 60 minutes throughout the civil day, i.e. From 4 to 23 o'clock, and is supplemented by top-of-the-line express trains. On passenger trains are mostly modern low-floor air-conditioned units RegioPanter, in Duchcov stop on sign. For example, in the dominant transport session Ústí nad Labem - Duchcov City, the R5 train is not faster than regional transport in many cases, as the passenger's saved travel time loses waiting for the trailer bus to the city. Without its use, the city is only available for 20 to 25 minutes. Therefore, the Ministry of Transport considered, when preparing a transport service plan for the period 2012 to 2016, whether trains R or express trains will stop at this railway stop. Although the transport results were very unfavourable in view of the fact that saving time was not necessarily necessary in terms of achieving significant nodes, the Ministry of Transport had no reason to stop trains immediately. However, already in the transport service plan of national transport trains for the period 2012 to 2016, the end of the stoppage of the R-type train, the express train, was envisaged in the context of modernization and acceleration of the Ústí nad Labem - Cheb session in this railway station. It can be summarised that in the timetable in force for the period 2016 there will be a situation where, in full compliance with the assumption of the transport plan for national transport trains, the acceleration of the Ústí nad Labem - Cheb session will be achieved in more appropriate time positions in the Cheb node. The passage of Duchcov will make sense. The city of Duchcov has sent the reasons for this unfortunately necessary step on this issue. Among other things, the Ministry of Transport stated that Duchcov's train stop is served in regular intervals by trains R5 Praha - Ústí nad Labem - Karlovy Vary - Cheb. However, the transport results of this stop are not favourable in the long term. Statistical data and train census show that the total volume of journeys coming from your city makes up only units of percent using long-distance trains. Of course, we will no longer demand the passage of Duchcov for trains for which this is not necessarily necessary. In cases where possible, we will arrange for long-distance trains to stop at the stop Duchcov. For the 2016 timetable we expect stopping for trains that provide morning connections to the regional and capital city, as well as for trains in the evening period in the opposite direction. The offer of express trains is complemented by express trains in the order of the Ústí Region, which will also continue to stop in Duchcov. Duchcov continues to serve express trains and express trains in the direction of Ústí nad Labem at 4.05, 5.42, 6.42, 7.07, 7.39 and 8.42 in the direction of Ústí nad Labem and trains at 5.11, 14.12, 16.12, 18.12, 19.11 and 21.11. It can be summarized that the arrivals and exits of passengers to the express trains in Duchcov are very small, and this is still completely dominant for travels within the region, which results from the balance of sold travel documents from Duchcov. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] However, the city of Duchcov will continue to have the quality transport service of trains, which will continue to stop here. The Ministry of Transport therefore considers that the measure is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u138	I thank the Minister and the Member. The Minister satisfied the Member. The trains in Duchcov run well enough. Mr Leoš Heger, who will intersect the absent Home Secretary, Milan Chovanec, on the subject of drunk driving, will bring the fifteenth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u139	Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Allow me to interpelate in the absence of Minister Chovanec, and I believe he will respond to it. Dear Minister, the footballer Limberský, captain of the Pilsner team and member of the national team, was detected in a car accident during an indicative breath test with a blood alcohol level of 1.5 permil. I am aware of the gravity of this event, and I have a clear view that drunken people have no business in road traffic. On the other hand, however, I also think that erring people should be given a second chance, and let us believe that the prosecutor will be responsible for examining the matter. - All the way down to this point, I think everything is formally in order, but there is another circumstance that seems quite serious to me. The first media reports reported that Mr. Libersky was running Limberský from the accident, and he was scolding and threatening the police patrol that was catching up with him. Everyone knows that a good footballer must have a certain degree of aggression. Aggressiveness has been embedded in our gene pool through mammoth hunters, unless it can be useful and definitely in football. However, it clearly does not belong to road traffic. Therefore, as Minister of the Interior and perhaps also a fan of Pilsen football, I would like to ask you two relevant questions from your sphere of competence: One. Is it true that the police's first reaction was that running away from the scene of an accident and swearing and threatening police officers as public officials would not be dealt with? And secondly, despite all my good civil experience with the behavior and professionalism of policemen, is there no risk of a certain in quotation marks for the entire case? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u140	Thank you, honourable Member. His question will be answered in writing. And we will proceed to another interview, when Mrs Jana Hnyková will intersect Minister Svatopluk Němeček on the rules for payment of medical devices. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u141	Thank you, Mr President. You forgot to deliver the absent Minister of Health. After reading the article in Euro č. 36 of September 7, 2015, under the name Non-Hebrew, and I learned that you had to save money. And it was a message from the Minister of Finance. But that you want to save on incontinence aids, pacemakers, medical aids and to help create new rules for the payment of medical devices, I'm very impressed. I'm being approached by people with questions about how it will be with compensatory aids, prostheses, how it will be with payment for incontinence aids. After all, these things need disabilities and seniors, and these are citizens who belong to a vulnerable group of people, live mostly at the limit of the minimum of life, some in poverty or touch that poverty, and they should pay even more from their pensions. And I want to warn you not to tell me that you're going to convince manufacturers to lower prices. No one believes that. It is precisely those citizens who need these aids, as is the custom in our country. So I would like to ask myself what the new rules are, how they touch our sick and disabled people. And the second question is, do you think this investigation of yours is in the right place? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u142	I thank the lady. It will be answered in writing. We will proceed to the 17th interview, when Mrs Markéta Adamová will also interpel the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček on the work of the Hygienic Station of the capital city of Prague. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u143	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'll read the interpellation to the absent minister. An extraordinary event occurred in Prague 6 at the end of May. In Dejvice and Bubeneč there was contamination of drinking water with sewage. Contaminated water has been acutely endangering health all week and the lives of some 32,000 people, of which 18,000 have proven to have suffered health damage, 5,000 people have had to seek emergency medical assistance in a serious state of health. The crisis situation of this magnitude is completely unprecedented in the Czech Republic. The Mayor of Prague 6 Mr. Ondřej Kolář informed you, Minister, by letter of 21 July about the very bad communication of the Hygienic Station of the capital city of Prague. Prague 6 was often reliant solely on outputs from the media and social networks, hygiene even did not want to provide basic information, arguing at the end of working hours. In the so-called summary report from the emergency situation, however, the Prague City Hygienic Station took credit that did not belong to it. The mayor has therefore invited you by letter to critically evaluate the work of the sanitary station in order to prevent the repetition of the major errors of this May, including possible personnel replacement in the management of this sanitary station. Prague 6 was the first to deal with the calamity of this magnitude, but it may not be the last, for example, see the current problem with legionella bacteria in Prague 9. It is therefore necessary to address the current situation in an inappropriate manner proactively. However, Minister, you have been playing a dead bug for two months in the whole matter, which, as a result, may represent a very risky gamble with the health of fellow citizens in the future. I therefore ask you to explain why you do not communicate with Prague 6 and at the same time how you feel about this. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u144	Thank you, ma'am. It will also be answered in writing. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mr Ivan Adam will intersect the present Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on cameras measuring speed. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u145	Thank you. Mr President, I see that somebody in the House's leadership can't come to my name again. My name is Adamec, for the record. Dear three Ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic, colleagues, colleagues, I will begin with a little bit of history. When I was still a member of the upper chamber of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, I remember when the toll gates of Kapsch were being introduced on the motorways, and then I felt with my colleague Kubera, they said which state handicraft would attack the toll gates to place cameras that measure speed. Back then, colleagues laughed at us and said it was impossible. They'll probably be laughing today, because I've learned from the media that this idea has matured and that the highway cameras will be installed on toll gates. I must say, I have a big problem with that. I fundamentally disagree with that. I could name a number of reasons here, but I would rather ask what the ideas of the Ministry of Transport are and whether it will be an immediate sectional measurement. What happens if the driver gets scared in a sectional measurement that he ran over the camera, if it's braking, and it can cause an accident from the shock of being measured by the camera? If you think it really will bring better safety and smoothness of transport. Next thing I know, who's gonna pay for it? Who's gonna administer it? How will fines be levied? What will be the sanctions? How's this gonna work, anyway? I have to say, the idea seems pretty monstrous to me. We're really gonna live somewhere where the cameras are gonna be watching us every step of the way. If you object to me that municipalities are doing this on their sections of state roads, in some cases it is understandable, in the place where schools are dangerous transitions, but also in a number of cases it has become a profitable business, when I know a community of some 15,000 inhabitants, which has eight cameras in the area where cameras should not be. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I think this is something similar. If you want to improve your state budget, tell us straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u146	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dement the report from the media here. It's not true what she wrote. Although the Road and Motorway Directorate issued a preliminary notification of the radar contract, for measuring speed on the D1 motorway, there was a bit of a misunderstanding here, which we clarified. The Department of Transport doesn't want to measure the current speed on the entire highway, especially on repaired and straight sections, so it won't install this measurement on the tollgate. What we want and will measure is continuous measurement of speed in narrow sections where modernization takes place, where there is either an 80 or a hundred. That's where we want to install portable mobile radars for the beginning and end of the section just as long as modernization takes place. This is for safety reasons and for a smooth journey, because according to the preliminary measurements we have made in these places, we have found that a large percentage of drivers are actually exceeding the speed there. And I think that the calming down of traffic in narrowing and improving smoothness should pass through the modernization period without any problems. So I want to assure you, we're not going to measure on all sections, we're not going to put it on toll gates, and it's just going to be in sections where there are two parallel lanes with limited velocity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u148	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u149	I would add that this will be paid by the ŘSD from the means provided by the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u150	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u151	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I don't really believe it. 'Cause once the devil gets out of the box, more devils are gonna come out. Once it's tried, it's just going to go on and there's going to be experiments. I think that even in narrow sections, which today is a lot, like D1, and even D11, as I found out, I wonder if this really is such a serious problem, the speed. I haven't heard of any dangerous accidents at the site of repairs. Of course I do. I know how some people go there, but I haven't experienced any accidents causing traffic delays or even stopping the freeway. If they try it here, they'll try it everywhere. I'd like to draw attention to those who think there's 150 on the highway today, and the police tolerate it, which is confirmed to me by a high-level police officer that it's going to continue like this, so it won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u152	I thank Mr Adamc. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u153	Mr President, I would just like to say that I am sorry that the Member does not believe me, but that is the intention. We're not interested in creating big brother's quotes on the freeway. And so I confess that we are debating security with Colonel Lerch and the fact that the 150s are tolerated on the freeway by the police, I have never heard and I hope that is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u154	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed to the 19th interpellation. Mr Václav Votava will interpel the present Minister Richard Brabec in the case of CHKO Brdy. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u155	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Minister, Government Order from 1. 1. 2016 The Protected Landscape Area of Brdy will be established. I welcome that. At my time, I also advocated the abolition of Brda's military retreat and the establishment of a protected landscape area in this territory. However, the government's regulation does not provide a seat for the administration of a protected landscape area. Rumor has it it could be Příbram and technical equipment could be in Jinc. For the inhabitants of Brd from the Plzeň Region, I can name Míšov, Borovno, Čížkov, it is of course sometimes problematic to get to Příbram if it were Příbram and they would of course have to travel there for a number of decisions as well. [[17.20 hours]] I therefore believe that at least a separate department of administration should be in the Pilsen Region, closer to the citizens of the Pilsen Region, so that they can also deal with the things they need. I know that, for example, Burned Poříčí is prepared such a building for the headquarters of the isolated workplace, for example, if it was not even the headquarters of the administration of the CHKO, it is possible to offer. I have three questions for you. Whether it is already decided where the seat of the Protected Landscape Area of Brdy will be, secondly, whether it is possible to consider the isolated workplace in the territory of the Plzeň Region, whether it is the Burned Poříčí, Strašice or somewhere else, and thirdly, where the information centres will be in this CHKO. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u156	I thank Mr Votav, Mr Richard Brabec, for his answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u157	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, dear colleague, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. The debate, Mr Votava's colleague knows this very well, was quite long because there were a number of different places, different cities, different municipalities with different offers, and we proceeded with the principle of, say, a proper economy, now I will say it less sublime, just so that who would offer us a certain place, such that it would then not cost much money to the future administration, the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency, i.e. to secure the service on the one hand, which is a bit complicated, which you know, because the Brds will very likely have a total of 340 square kilometers and are spread between Central Bohemia and the Pilsen Region and are very complicated to pass through. Therefore, in the end, after, believe me, many very difficult diplomatic negotiations have been decided that administration, but it has since 1. 1. In fact, 2015 there was a change in the structure of AOPK, i.e. Administrations as such will no longer have their headquarters, they will have a dedicated workplace of the Agency for Nature and Landscape Protection and this workplace will really be in Příbram, the dedicated workplace of AOPK, with the fact that, in addition to CHKO Brdy, he will also be in charge of certain matters relating to grant titles, e.g. from both national and European sources, so that people, when they are going to Příbram, are able to do even more things there. It means, it really should be there, but widespread, not just for Brdy. In Jincek, and I stress, in Příbram we have free offices from the Ministry of Agriculture, in Jinc we received an offer from the Ministry of Defence, also free of charge, the deletion that the object would have been transferred to us, with the possibility of obtaining some space for the field workplace, where people who will still be in contact with the administration of the military escape, because there are still soldiers staying there, and with the Military Forests, which will also reside there, and as you said exactly, we have a preliminary agreement with Mr. Mayor Čížek of Spálený Poříčí that we would like to make another information centre or workplace there probably directly at the building office and the scope of the official hours we will see according to the real needs of the region. As far as information centres are concerned, this is still in the negotiations. Now, Mr. Defense Minister and I are going to a meeting with the municipalities in a week and we're assessing options. I'm assuming they'll be created during 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u158	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u159	Thank you. If I understand correctly, Minister, the Burned Poříčí, virtually. a building in Spálené Poříčí, you consider as a possible residence of some sort of detached or isolated workplace. I suppose a man would take care of all the things he does in Příbram, so that the locals wouldn't have to commute, or from the adjacent region, directly to Příbram. [[Minister from the place: It should be the same range.]] Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u160	I thank Mr Votav. We will proceed to the 20th session, when Mrs Miroslava Němcová will interpel the present Minister Jiří Dienstbier on migration. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister. Yesterday, Minister, I overheard your words, which concern the current biggest problem, not just our country, but the global biggest problem of the migration wave. You announced that you imagined that the Czech Republic could accommodate 15 000 migrants. I have been thinking about this in the context of the resolution that we adopted on 12 February this year, when the Chamber of Deputies gave a mandate to the government to promote that there will be no mandatory quotas at all foreign negotiations, in June of this year, the government returned from one such meeting with the fact that it rejected the compulsory quotas, but in those optional that it would accept 1,400 refugees. The Prime Minister, President of today's ODS, Petr Fiala, responded that he still expects 1,400 refugees to do so, that he will not say any more accurate and otherwise, because he expects what negotiations will still be held in Europe. The only thing he mentioned, and what I have to say, that scared me a lot, was that some kind of clue could be how we handled the Balkan crisis. Let me just remind you that it was about 20,000 people who went through the Czech Republic back then. So I want to ask you whether you are shooting blindly, whether you are disturbing the citizens of the Czech Republic and are aware of the radicalization of society if they hear from Prime Minister 1,400, from you 15,000, today the Prime Minister will say or just indicate that the Balkan emigration was 20, so it could be 20. Minister Chovanec asks you what do you mean, if you have such a large apartment, Minister Zaorálek is shaking his head over you and it is difficult to explain what you meant by that. Can you answer me if this digit, this fired, is the result of some government debate and how did you get it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u162	I thank the lady of the house for her question. I'll ask Minister Jiří Dienstbier for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u163	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the information is, of course, slightly shifted in the interpretation, as it was said in the question. I am not questioning anything, and on this point I am completely in line with the entire government of the Czech Republic that mandatory quotas are not the best and far from a functional solution, and therefore I have no problem with the position of the Czech Government at all. I've made a different statement. I was talking about the government's position being that we are rejecting mandatory quotas, and on the other hand, basically, all the members of the government agree that we must help ourselves voluntarily and be in solidarity with those countries of the European Union that are facing the greatest challenge of the current migration wave. I also mentioned the offer of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, which was last repeated, as far as I know, officially at the Assembly of this Union this week on Monday, when representatives of industrial enterprises said that they would be able to immediately employ at least 5 000 migrants, depending on their qualifications, given that at the moment they already lack more than 100 000 employees and cannot obtain adequate qualifications. In this context, I said that, of course, if something like this were feasible, then there is the potential to include family members somewhere between 7 and 15 thousand migrants. This is not an exact number, because of course we do not know exactly how the situation will develop. I was talking about the fact that there is undoubtedly the ability of the Czech Republic to offer such assistance on the basis of already specific offers. This was not just this number, but which industrial enterprises already offer precise specific numbers of migrants that would be able to employ. This would, of course, require broader cooperation. It is not just a job, it would be necessary to cooperate with the relevant municipalities in a given place, no doubt it would be necessary to provide accommodation for such people. That means it would require some coordination. [[17.30 hours]] If we are talking about the fact that in the past we have been able to accept a much larger number of people who have been in trouble, who have had to flee from a country where there was a war conflict, I think it is on these examples that the Czech Republic has been willing to help and help people in a situation similar to that of refugees today, especially from Syria, but also from other countries where there is a war conflict. In terms of numbers, she really is not so important, because we also have an obligation on the basis of international contractual obligations, European rules and our constitutional order to grant asylum to everyone who rightly asks for it here. And it's not really the number that matters. This number may even be significantly larger than 15,000 asylum seekers, because we are not at all able to say exactly how the situation will develop at the moment. I would point out that asylum law is one of the relatively old, almost antique rights of our civilization, and I think that if we want to report to it and if we stress that we want to maintain it, a certain degree of solidarity is necessary here. We like to accept solidarity within the European Union, but when it comes to providing it, we have rather problematic tones. I would like to call on all the politicians and all the political parties that report to the mainstream, they are solid democratic parties, on the contrary, to stop spreading fear among the people of the Czech Republic and to concentrate on the substantive debate on the specific problems that are linked to the current migration crisis. There's no horde of dangerous individuals coming here. If you listen to interviews with some immigrants from Syria, they are very educated people, they provide interviews in English, they are university teachers, IT specialists, engineers and so on. [[Time warning]] So let us not spread fear in Czech society and lead a rational debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u164	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u165	Everyone comes to tell me what else to ask, but I only have one minute. So in that minute, I'm going to tell you that this February, the government decided to move 12 Syrian families here to help, and they're going to do a good background check so they don't take any risks. They're still not here. How do you want to check out the 15,000 people? How long will it take you? What criteria will you be doing this? Number two. British Prime Minister Cameron has announced that 20,000 people will receive his country within five years. That means the Brit are 60 million. Let's try to make the ratio in the Czech Republic. And you're rejecting... The Brit can say the number. You're messing around, you're messing around, you're messing around. You'll each shoot something different. You're changing it all the time, and then you're surprised that people are going crazy on the streets. Everyone I stop asks me what's going to be, what's the position of the government, what you're going to do. You don't know that. You are ordered by the House's resolution to inform us of the positions you will take in all foreign negotiations. You will withdraw from each meeting in the House by either interrupting the meeting or restricting it yesterday by failing to apply properly. You guys aren't here to talk about any discussion, because everything you do, you're closing your mouth and deceiving people outside because you're not at all able to say what's going to happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or next year. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u166	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask Minister Dienstbier for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u167	Madam, the procedures are quite clear, they are given by international law, European law and Czech law. It is simply a standard asylum procedure in which we have to assess whether or not the applicant has the right to asylum, and if he has the right to asylum, it is a legal right and the Czech Republic has an obligation to grant such protection, or another type of international protection. That can't be discussed at all. This is our duty, because we have signed up, we have long applied to some fundamental principles, to the values of the democratic rule of law, where the protection of fundamental human rights, of course, belongs. And fear is not the one who is having a factual debate, who is trying to resolve the situation, but the one who is generally haunted by the arrival of a popular population group. Once again, I call for responsibility, for a substantive debate, and not for the spread of fear. Perhaps I would remind the representatives of the ODS that even their very successful politician, Mayor Mladá Boleslav, has Syrian roots, and you probably will not convince us that he is a dangerous person, a person that we are only supposed to fear because of his origin. Once again, I call for rationality, substantive debate, non-proliferation of fear, and for us to help our European partners who face the greatest burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u168	Thank you. We will proceed to another interview when Mr Jan zahradník will interpel the Minister of Environment Richard Brabec on drought in Šumava National Park. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u169	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I am now from another court. Dear Minister, it was dry, we noticed that the symbolic spring of the Vltava River dried up during the summer in Sumava. It was the first time anything like this ever happened. The people of the national park administration have taken this into account and announced to the media that the pipe has clogged. The truth is that the barkworm has destroyed 20,000 hectares of forest due to bad decisions in Sumava over the last ten years, resulting in a much greater impact of climate extremes on the area of Šumava. If we look at the current drought map in the Czech Republic, we can see that the biggest drought is in and around the Šumava National Park. According to what you propose in the amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act and the National Park Care Plan, most of the forest will be exposed to an acute risk of barking. A national park spokesperson says that a dry tree is more advantageous for water management because it consumes less water than a green tree. Your director of the National Park openly promotes 50 percent of the wilderness in Sumava at public meetings. This can change the water conditions to twice the park area now. My first question, Minister. How does this compare with your declaration on promoting the preservation of water in the countryside? Do you have another meter for water retention in the protected area of natural water accumulation in Šumava and others for this problem in other territories of the Republic? I was also surprised, Minister, that you allowed the National Park Care Plan to say that old dysfunctional waterworks, such as earlier sailing clowns, would be disrupted. Question two. Would it not be appropriate, on the contrary, in line with your media declarations, to restore these water tanks in Sumava? Especially when projects are already prepared for their renewal, which have been developed by the former management of the Šumava National Park.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u170	I thank the honourable Member for his intervention. I'll ask the Minister of the Environment for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u171	Dear Vice-President, dear colleague and my loyal Šumava fan, and I say this without all irony. Now there's a sign: I'm not talking about anything like that. [[There's a piece of paper left on the speaker's counter with this text on it.]] So I don't know if I should take it personally or if I...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u172	No, Minister, it wasn't up to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u173	Yeah, that wasn't... [[With laughter.]] So without saying anything. One thing, and I'm being very serious about this, and you know it, Šumava is really drying out. I spend almost as much time there as you do, and there's no doubt about it. But where we're a little different, and I don't want to for the sake of time, and there's gonna be a big debate about it in Law 114, now entering into expert debates, how much water actually keeps a deciduous versus coniferous tree inside, and if small trees, which are up to 30,000 per hectare, will eventually hold more than adult conifers in that natural recovery. But Sumava, and I'm sure you've read Karel Klostermann, all his books. I always read them in Sumava, where it's so specific. And Šumava did not dry out after the biggest barking calamity in 1870, but there were probably even much more dry trees than they are today, and it did not dry out because there was normally 4-5 meters of snow and it melted until June. And that was the water that then fed the underground springs, which then fed the marshes and the bogs. Unfortunately, today in Sumava the last winters are warm and unfortunately they will continue to be, and if the snow melts in March, the Sumava will continue to dry. I agree with you that this is a matter that is unprecedented, and I also personally participate in the fact that, first, they will be, and you know that they are already under the so-called. large EIA on 34 projects assessed the possibility of renewal of just a few clauses - it is called a clause, so a clause to make sure it doesn't go somewhere again - in the Vchynicko-Tetov Canal in the blue area plus some others in other areas and we do and we will take far more measures on the natural retention of water in the landscape, even in the first zones. I sign up for this, even to the extent that we will definitely talk about this in the current amendment within the framework of the second reading committee meeting, how to allow even more natural retention, because, and we must acknowledge this, climate change and its effects are going faster than we expected, and unfortunately, droughts are now falling on Šumava too. But they also hit her in areas where the crustacean didn't freak out, and yet Šumava is drying up there. That means obviously the cause is much more in the lack of snow, then it feeds, as I said, shallow underground springs than in the attack. So I think what's indisputable is that we have to do something about it. There are a number of ways to do something about it, and believe me, I have a natural interest, and that is not a cliché, and it is not with forgiveness and you will certainly see to it in the coming months, even in the care plan, that we will try as much as possible to keep water in Sumava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u174	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u175	Thank you, Minister. I'll sort of work with you, but I'm just reminding you of one more thing. Mr. Ing delivered to the House today. Marta, the famous protector of the Šumava Forest, petition with 12 thousand signatures just requesting an increase in water protection, accumulation of water in the Sumava countryside. Please meet the petition. She's with Vice-President Bartošek, and she will also be discussed in a public hearing by the petition committee. So I hope you will also consider this petition, this view of many Šumavák. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u176	Thank you, honourable Member. And we'll proceed to another interpellation. Mr Adam Rykala will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš in the matter of the credit law. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u177	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent finance minister, the bill on consumer credit, which we will talk about in the following period and discuss on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, is much stricter than the existing law. He regulates mine. even those who offered non-bank loans, for example, on the Internet or on the phone. The debt of those who cannot defend themselves, who do not understand the conditions set out in the contract, is still involved, and often fall for these loan shark tricks. But I'd like to ask you, Minister, if the credit bill is accepted, if your ministry, maybe. your established institutions can control usury in the Czech Republic. You know, we have a tighter law, for example, on the so-called law. Bastards. We can regulate scumbags today who offer a variety of overpriced products to our seniors. Nevertheless, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority does not have the capacity to control these practices. That is why I ask, if a strict credit law is adopted, your Ministry of Finance can prove it. You set up entities to control compliance with this law? Can he give high fines? Thank you for writing me back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u178	I thank Mr Rykal. He'll be answered in writing. Another interviewer will be Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, who will also interpel Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš - absent - in the case of ČEZ. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u179	Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary. It's a sad story to intersect someone who's not here, but that's probably what political life is. I wonder how a person who had all his electoral rhetoric built and the whole ethos built on the fight against corruption, clientelism, the vice versa of this type, how a person who had this as an electoral program would stand up to the information that appeared in the media about how his Vice-President of the Party works and, as they say, the closest right hand of Radmila Kleslová. How do you stand up to the fact that the methods applied by Mrs Kleslová to some members of the supervisory board of ČEZ, i.e. pressure, influence, and, as it sounds, I dare say blackmail, whether it is appropriate for the Vice-President of your movement to use such methods. I would also like to know your statement that you did not know about Mrs Kleslová's activities when she said that all of her contracts with ČEZ were known to you. So I would ask for an answer where the truth is. What she said or what you said? In that context, I would ask what other companies she worked in, if it was Mero, Čepro, České dráhy. And I would also ask where the fight against clientelism is when we have removed all functional policies from the board of directors of companies in a year's time, and you are putting them there again. For example, Councilman Lacko is a member of the Board of Directors of Prague Gas. Where is the fight against clientelism when the German model, which we have worked hard to implement, has been replaced in all the board of politicians and you're putting it there again? And they are just politicians for the YES movement, social democracy, and one who is not assigned to vote with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u180	I thank Mr Svoboda. He'll be answered in writing, and we'll proceed to another interpellation. Mr Petr Bendl will intersect the absent Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán in the case of brutally abused horses. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u181	Thank you for the floor. A spicy situation where not one member of this government is on the bench behind me, but I think we need to get used to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u182	He's not behind you, but there's one after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u183	I see. Mr. Environment Minister. Thank God, at least one! In May this year, the Czech Republic's court condemned a young man for unprecedented brutal abuse and killing a horse and the Czech public is moved by doubts as to whether the condition he was given for this act is an adequate response from the state and an adequate punishment. This man tortured a horse by taking his skin off him alive and sticking a stake in his anus. And it's probably not the only case he's committed. [[17.50 hours]] It is not customary for a Member to turn directly to the Minister of Justice in individual cases, but I, as a Member, have no choice but to turn to a prosecutor or a judge. For you, Minister of Justice, I ask you to check whether the punishment granted is in accordance with the law, whether it could not have been higher, or whether the whole process has been in order, because I ask myself, as I say, whether to raise a law change that would punish such brutal acts more severely than by granting a conditional sentence. Please take a look at the entire case and report it to me if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u184	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister Pelikán will also respond in writing to this interpelation. We will proceed to another interview where Mr Leo Luzar will intersect the absent Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš in the matter of retired miners. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, I would like to point out the problem on which you have taken the liberty of expressing yourself in the media and, in my opinion, you have expressed your opinion that miners and early pensions are not the problem of the Czech Government, that this is the problem of the employer. Here I want to tell you clearly and clearly that you're wrong. The problem of increasing retirement values is a government program dealing with economic matters, but these people, as a field of expertise, are people who already have significant health problems caused by the professions they pursue at 55 years of age. If it's possible to talk about brutal abuse of work, mining work is something similar. And whoever had the chance to meet the miners, and I have a miner in my family, can confirm that this is not an enviable job and deserves our respect. Therefore, I would ask you to weigh very much in your media performances the words you use for these professions. But I'm turning to you as Secretary of Finance. Of course, you are talking about the fact that employers should support the miners to retire. But I ask, isn't it precisely the office of the Finance Minister to prepare tax laws for employers to make money and to pay pensions? I ask you when you will introduce progressive taxation so that pensions can be paid. I ask you when you will introduce a tax system so that entrepreneurs using heavy labour pay the corresponding part of the taxes in the state budget and can pay these pensions. This is not a social matter, it is indeed a tax matter, and you, as Minister of Finance, should present to this House proposals for tax which will treat this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u186	I thank Mr Luzar. The next interview will be an interview by Mrs Jana Černochová, who is not present. I'm canceling her interpellation. We will proceed further, another interview is held by Mr Radim Holeček, who is also not present. [[Waiting]] Even Mr Ivan Adamec is not present, so I also cancel his interpellation. Mrs Markéta Adamová is not present. [[Waiting]] Thus, the 30th interpelation, probably the last today, will be presented by Mr Jan Zahradník, who will interpel the Minister Richard Brabec, who will probably receive a medal today on the matter of the protection of groundwater. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u187	Vice-President, of course. In fact, I sometimes turn to other ministers, for example, the Prime Minister today, so you are not the only target of my interpelling, Minister. Now allow me to interpelate. This summer was dry, we already said that. We are warned by meteorologists that the drought period will continue in the future. A lot of opinions immediately emerged as to how to face that period. According to my information, the government is returning to a generation of areas protected for the accumulation of surface waters, which is good. We have already discussed this with our colleague Bendl this spring at our meeting. However, I want to focus on the issue of groundwater resources, which is no less important, in my interpellation. I have these questions, Minister: When will the old burdens that threaten the sources of groundwater be resolved? And secondly, how will the balance be ensured between the groundwater extraction and its backflow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u188	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u189	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleague, ladies, I didn't think it would come to me. I packed my notebooks, but I think I'm gonna put it together like this. I have a minimum of time. It's very fast. I'll start with a second question. There is a somewhat abnormal situation in the Czech Republic, which we will now try to remedy, although it will certainly be unpopular among a number of people, because unlike other people it is cheaper for us to take groundwater than surface water. But underground waters are rarer, harder to supplement. So we are now assuming, in the amendment to the Water Act, or we are going to propose an increase in the price of groundwater gradually until 2022 in multiples, because today it is approximately two to three crowns per cubic metre and it is somewhere between four and six crowns per cubic metre, i.e. for a thousand liters. This means that we will try to prevent situations where a number of large consumers, large customers of groundwater, including water companies, are primarily pumping groundwater, even in a situation where surface water is sufficient. The groundwater should, of course, be left as a reserve. You are absolutely right that the restoration of those above all deeper groundwater is a big problem, because inertia is quite high. I have to say that if the drought next year were to be as dry as this year, it could already be a drought with catastrophic effects, because today there are still more than 50 percent of groundwater or groundwater, groundwater resources - we are talking about shallow ones - in a drought or catastrophic drought. And if it's not winter, we're gonna have a serious problem. There's no easy solution to this. There are a number of measures in government material, such as artificial flooding, where surface waters are targeted into groundwater. This is a thing that has been tested in the Czech Republic for 50 years and works well. This means, perhaps, the first question - a combination of economic factors or economic instruments, financial instruments and specific technical measures. About the other question. Gradually, of course, those priorities, when the first priority is precisely the problem with the possible threat of groundwater, that is the problem that the Ministry of the Environment is currently giving as priorities for the Ministry of Finance when deciding on the prioritized removal of old environmental burdens. So not only at the moment, but I must say that the last drought has contributed to this clearly, that possibly the threat of groundwater is some old environmental burden today among the first two priorities that should decide the speed of removing the old ecological burden.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u190	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u191	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for actually starting with the economic aspect, which is no less important than material or technical aspects, that is the price that is illogical. You said that right. My question won't be asked any more, time won't allow it. I just want to say that the real priority of taking groundwater for business consumption is sometimes inappropriate, not good, we have to suppress it. Plus, if they use the water, clean it up, then they take it into the water like surface water, and she runs away from us. So that's actually the thing that we want to do together. Once again, I'm offering you cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u192	I thank Mr Zahradník. If the Minister is not interested in an additional answer - he does not - that is the end of today's interpelation. I'll hand over the meeting's management and we'll proceed with a fixed point in no time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-007-215.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 18 o'clock and we will proceed with the fixed point. That's a point number.
