ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-003-024.u1	24. Government bill amending Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation and on Amendment and Supplement to Act No. 468/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended, as amended, and Act No. 256/2001 Coll., on burial and amending certain laws, as amended /German press 363/ - first reading The Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Minister, please take the floor. And I ask my colleagues and colleagues once again to keep their voice down if they have anything to say to each other to do in the foyer. Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-003-024.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, the bill you are now debating amends the advertising regulation law and also contains a partial minor amendment to the funeral law. The main objective of the proposal is to eliminate the shortcomings raised by the European Commission in the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on unfair commercial practices against the population in the internal market, in relation to the Act on Advertising Regulation. The proposal also adapts the Act on the regulation of advertising on the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of food information to consumers, which also relates to advertising, which has been directly applicable in all EU countries since mid-December last year, i.e. also in the Czech Republic. In addition, the proposal transfers supervisory powers for advertising on foods containing nutrition or health claims from regional trade offices to the State Agricultural and Food Inspection. As this inspection is already carrying out surveillance of food labelling, it will result in a shift in the effectiveness of surveillance in the area. Similarly, under an agreement with the Ministry of Finance, supervisory powers are transferred from regional trade offices to customs offices in the area of supervision of the dissemination of advertising to unauthorised or unannounced lotteries. Customs authorities as the authorities under the Ministry of Finance have immediately available information on whether or not a particular lottery is allowed, and therefore the performance of supervision will also be faster and more effective here. The proposal also specifies the provisions regulating the so-called electoral advertising. In view of the existing wording of the Act on Advertising Regulation, the violation of the restrictions is not yet possible at all, since electoral advertising cannot be subordinated to the definition of advertising under the legislation currently in force. Under the proposed legislation, only such announcements regarding the elections that will be marked with information on the person who ordered this dissemination will be possible, from the time of the election campaign to the end of the vote. If the notification in question does not have the required requirements, its dissemination shall be subject to a fine. For the sake of completeness, I note that the amendment to the Funeral Law, which is also included in the proposal, merely abolishes duplication and thus unnecessary provisions on penalties for infringements of the conditions laid down for advertising on funeral activities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before you now removes, as I mentioned at the outset, the partial shortcomings in the advertising regulation law, in particular with regard to the European Commission's criticism of the transposition of the directive into unfair commercial practices. In view of this, I ask you to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-003-024.u3	Thank you and I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Martin Komárek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-003-024.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the law put forward by Minister Mládek changes the current law on advertising regulation quite significantly, referring precisely to European directives and general provisions on unfair competition. For example, those interventions in the Advertising Regulation allow for a more or less hidden advertising and allow advertising which is not identifiable from other content, at the same time reducing the protection of children. Of course, the law refers to the fact that these provisions are already contained in other laws or directives. At present, as we all probably know and perceive, even these provisions of the advertising regulation law still in force are either violated by the broadcasters, or broadcasters often like to move on the edge, and therefore I have some doubts as to whether the new regulation will work well. I am indeed the last person in the world who would like to intervene in a free competition, but on the other hand, I respect the protection of the weaker parties to the contract, which in this case are all the recipients of the broadcast when it comes to hidden advertising or not distinguishing advertising from other content, but especially the children to whom the aggressive advertising attacks. So here I see a certain content and legal problem, which, in my view, needs to be discussed very thoroughly in the committees, and I am 100% sure that the rights of these weaker parties to the treaty will not be violated. Otherwise, I believe that this law, with regard to food labelling, improves current market conditions in terms of control as regards electoral announcements and burial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-003-024.u5	I thank and open the general debate to which Mr Hovorka is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-003-024.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I share similar concerns as the rapporteur. I would particularly like to recommend your attention to what is being abolished in the new bill. In particular, this provision is repealed that advertising based on subliminal perception is prohibited. Such advertising for the purposes of this Act means advertising that would affect the subconscious of a natural person without knowingly perceiving it. Similarly, another part concerning the effect of advertising on persons under the age of 18, where it is recommended that two paragraphs be deleted - recommends that they purchase products or services using their inexperience or credulity and encourage them to persuade their parents or legal representatives or other persons to purchase goods or services. I believe that these are serious matters and that these provisions of the law should certainly not be deleted. It is possible that the literal presentation of the European directive sounds as proposed, but I would also like to hear in which other provisions of this law or other laws, as mentioned by the rapporteur, these things are being treated. I believe that this was correctly enshrined in the law. I also believe that Czech legislation does not have proper treatment of advertising for human medicine, and then the part that concerns the donation of human tissues and cells, or the advertising of human tissues and cells. This has to do with the fact that replacements are normally provided for the donation of tissue and cells. I think these are the things that we should be dealing with in the committees, and I believe that the House will then make the right decision after a thorough debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-003-024.u7	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the plaintiff if he is interested in the final word. The rapporteur? Not either. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Election Committee. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the electoral committee for discussion. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 54 to which 174 are registered for 144. [[against no one]] I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the electoral committee, and I conclude with this point. Since I have noted the presence of the Minister of Finance of Andrej Babiš, we can continue to discuss paragraph 88, which we interrupted before the debate.
