ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u1	115. Annual Report on Czech Television Economics in 2013 /German press 283/ The rapporteur, Mr Jan Birke, is already sitting at the rapporteur's table. We will continue the general debate. I'd like to see Mr. Martin Komárek's mike. Mr Martin Kolovratník will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've had my second adjourned speech today, and that's a very decent balance sheet for one day. I want to get on with the TV. I was talking about it if we didn't forget for lunch that the Czech Television Act was wrong. He's bad for two reasons. It gives the Council of Czech Television, compared to all civilised European countries, only minimal powers to control and co-create the economic policy of television. In addition, television gives about its activities and management two different reports that come to us after six months. On the contrary, the law is good because it does not allow politicians to interfere not only with television, but it does not allow them to manage the Czech Television Council. It only allows them to vote for the advice. I think that's good. It is a very high, very comfortable degree of independence of public media. I would say that it is the largest in Europe, and I am glad that public media is independent. Nevertheless, I have been critical of the work of the Czech Television Council in the long term, because I think that, despite limited powers, it can be more assertive towards the leadership of Czech Television, and please, I now point out three or four times, not in terms of content, we really should not talk about the content, the media are independent, they should remain independent as far as possible until the end of time, but as far as the economy is concerned. Czech TV manages six billion dollars of money sent to it by dealers. It's actually kind of an indirect tax that affects almost all households. And I would say that television is the least controlled institution in terms of public procurement. It is commendable, and television in this fulfills the law that it gives jobs and orders to private producers, actors and others. But if any mayor, and there's a lot of mayors, he's gonna dig up a pit for 50 grand from František, so as the mayors complain, there's 50 checks coming up, and he can still be brought to justice. There is no such control on TV - and it is not fifty thousand, it is hundreds of millions of crowns. I don't think it's a good condition. The law must correct him. We are, and this must be admitted, delayed with the law, but already I think it is in the interest of television and in the interest of the Czech Television Council to be completely transparent. The Mushroom Mountains should not be more Kafkův Castle, but rather a glass house to be seen in. Czech television from the point of view of the law is to work with a balanced budget, i.e. He's supposed to put all the resources he gets into the production of shows for us. During the previous management, Czech Television worked with the surplus, created a multibillion-dollar pillow. The current TV management dissolves this pillow, which is both more or less against the spirit and the letter of the law. Interestingly, the advice given to both directors for completely contradictory negotiations gives equal, relatively high rewards. But I wish everyone money, so I'm sure the CEOs deserve it. [[14.40 hours]] Of course, there is a big problem with this non-transparency. There are various suspicions that TV management is not only transparent, but that various consulting firms are feeding on it, that there are overvalued prices, that it helps friends, that it's a kind of self-defense. I do not know if this is true, and I firmly hope it is not, but I stress - three times again - I do not know this, because neither the Council of Czech Television nor this Chamber of Deputies has a real picture of how Czech Television operates. And I think that, unlike interfering with the work of Czech Television, we have a right to an image about its management because it is really public money. Of course, like some of my previous speakers, I don't want to know how much the host or the actress makes. Indeed, these are data that could arouse envious feelings. I would like to know whether public money, whether my 135 crowns I am sending use television economically, whether its projects are overpriced, whether the performance actually corresponds to the invested investment. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] I sometimes meet with Mrs Marcová, or Marková, who convinces us that everything is okay by the MP for the money of Czech Television. She no longer greets me, which I am sorry, because she is a very intelligent and handsome lady, but I will say no to the fact that Czech TV is not okay, that is absolutely not my place, I do not want to talk about what it is or is not Czech TV. I want to talk about it, and I will keep saying that something is wrong with the Czech Television Council. That the Council of Czech Television should be a more assertive partner to the Director-General, that it should be more controlling the management of Czech television and that it should simply be a double-sided pillow. It is correct, and it is said that the advice is the pillow that shades the influence of politicians on Czech television. But at the same time, it shouldn't be a pillow covering something up for the public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u3	Mr. colleague, I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask everyone present to keep their voice down because the noise is rising. In case they're on the phone or have something to say to each other to do so in the lobby and not disturb you in your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u4	It's okay. I'm trying, because, as I said, I really understand this, I'm trying to explain it, it's futile. I'm going back to those two-minute factual notes, at least someone's quoting and listening, but this is my duty as chairman of the electoral committee. I think that I have explained everything that is relevant, so thank you for your inattentiveness and prepare for a few factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u5	Thank you. Mr. Kolovratník's microphone, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u6	Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon, now not for the election committee, but as a member of the electoral media committee. I would like to respond to Czech TV and I would also like to tell you my opinion, I would like to extend the scope of opinion about interpreting my opinion. First of all, I would like to address Mr Valenta. Through Madam President, my colleague, with all due respect, and please do not take this personally, you said at the beginning that your previous speech, at the first hearing, was a good deed. I'll be honest. I think it was a terrible deed. I'll try to explain why I mean it. You mentioned one of the Czech Television shows, or you relied on your argument on one of the programmes, so I looked into publicly available sources, and now I will quote for a while: 2015 - honorary recognition of the Foundation for Bohemia and the Syndicate of Journalists of the Czech Republic Media to help monuments; 2012 - Václav Havel Trilobit Award, grants FITES and the city of Beroun; 2011 - Honorary Medal of Vojtěch Náprstek Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic for the promotion of science; 2010 - ELSA, TV Academy Award; 2009 - Yes, yes, no, the Josef Lux award. Finally, 2008 - again ELSA, TV Academy Award. Six times this show has won one of the most prestigious awards, professional awards in the press industry. It's a history show that you criticize so much. Another one of the counterarguments. You said that television, a public media, is only supposed to broadcast with a viewing focus, that it should have a lot of surveillance shows. Oh, my God, where did you get that opinion? Exactly the opposite! Public media is about to broadcast minority genres, programs that aren't mainstream and that don't have huge ratings. I myself, and I've said this a few times, I've worked for 12 years as the manager of the Czech Public Radio. We discussed this topic on the radio daily and for radio and television it is the same assignment in this sense. So please, my colleague, through Madam President, if you have an ideal disagreement with one of the TV shows, I respect that, I do not have to agree with you, but I do not think that we should base our argument on this ideal disagreement on the management of the public media. Moreover, I remind you, and Mr Jandák has already said this, we are talking about the 2013 management, so colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about the management report, which is actually a year and a half back in the public sector. You, Mr Valenta, criticized more things in that first speech, and I marked them. For example, you criticized the participation of Czech Television, respectively. Director-General, EBU, European Broadcasting Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that EBU is one of the most prestigious global organizations that brings together all public media, both television and radio, including the English BBC, the German ZDF, etc. So the fact that Czech Television is a member of this organization is very beneficial for the exchange of professional experience, for the exchange of intentions of dramaturgical, what to broadcast, what to do, but also for the exchange of programmes. Colleagues and colleagues, I want to remind you all of what Martin Komárek said a moment ago. The legislation is really not ideal, we are actually running very late nowadays, because the House approves the management of public media at one point, in autumn it is an activity report. I would like to draw your attention and remind you that we in committee have started to address this and we are going to change legislation so that both TV and radio reports are merged together, that is, so that we can discuss the activities, the quality or the poor quality of the individual programmes in connection with funding and the costs of the individual programmes, so that the reports are collected together. If, as Slávek Jandák said, you all understand media and journalism, then I can invite you on June 3rd, in two weeks' time, the electoral committee will act on the subject of legislative change and we will discuss the matter there as well. We'll be happy to hear your opinions. I have to take a complete stand on Mr Stanjura's view: if you had any comments on the 2013 TV business, why did you either not come to us on the media committee, or why didn't you say so through my colleagues? The Committee approved this report, respectively. recommended for approval, six months ago, in autumn 2014. I don't know how you guys are, but I couldn't argue for myself why I suddenly don't approve of this report, virtually. That's why I'm expressing myself against her. So, colleagues and colleagues, I dare ask you to accept or consider my opinion, which I have called "let's go the way of evolution and not revolution." The TV board, I can assure you, I, as a member of the media committee, have raised these questions, I have asked, has a number of qualitative and quantitative analyses, can present to you on request a number of speeches by opposition or coalition politicians, a number of processed topics in both news and publicity. If you have any problems or disagreements, please instruct us or your colleagues on the electoral committee. We are those who may ask the Council, who may, in the form of a resolution, request that a qualified answer be given by the next meeting of the Committee. [[14.50 hours]] Let me remind you of one more thing. Here in the House, we are also discussing one of the family law reconstructions of the state. It's an extension of the SAO's powers. We also remember that Czech Television and Czech Radio should also be - or the SAO should be able to control these public media. So if anyone points to errors in the management, then I would like to say that both radio and television already have to compete with contracts as standard according to tenders today, they must comply with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. If there is a problem, if any of the suppliers appeal, they usually go to the media to question the ÚOHS and save the assignments. If Mr Valenta or any of the other critics have any specific comments that he has found that any tender procedure has been called or non-standard, then I ask the person concerned to prove his claim and whether he is acting under the law, to file a criminal complaint or to apologize, because that claim cannot be true. And I'm almost done. My recommendation and my proposal for the House, perhaps I can also say a request to you, colleagues, will approve the 2013 management report, immediately passing on your suggestions and opinions to us and to my colleagues in the election committee. As I said, on 3 June we will be discussing the amendment of legislation and I can guarantee you that we will be very happy to ask sharp questions to the Council of Czech Television, we will ask questions and questions about the body, and we will require answers from the Council of Czech Television. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u7	Thank you and please, Mr Komárek, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u8	Thank you. I'd like to be more specific about two things. Of course, television competes in public procurement when it comes to building a sidewalk or sewing fitters for local bailiffs. But it's not true that they're competing with the show First Republic or something. When I was talking about hundreds of millions of crowns that weren't controlled, I was right, that's true. There is no competition for art projects, that is decided, and basically the only one who decides is the CEO, because he is the only statutory body of television. To make no mistake, indeed, hundreds of millions of crowns are not controlled in any way. Let's hope we finally pass the contract register law where it might change. I'm not saying the contracts are wrong. I repeat, I'm not saying they're wrong, I'm just saying they're not being controlled, they're not transparent, and I think the board should do it. Second thing. I do not think that Members have to go to the electoral committee when they have any reservations about the Czech Television report. I would also not go to the Economic Committee to beg if I had any problem with ČEZ's mismanagement of electricity. I really don't. I think it's, uh... We have the right to discuss this with the House without having to go to committees, even if I invite everyone to the election committee. There's a few of us out there sometimes, we'll be happier, we'll laugh.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u9	Thank you. Now, I beg you, Mr Marek Benda, in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u10	I was quite prepared to undergo a concentrated attack by Communist Members and a part of the ANO movement headed by Martin Komárek on Czech Television, but now that I have heard that the Czech Television's fault is that it does not compete with artistic shows, it seems to me that we are already on the border, on the border really crazy. If we really think we're going to compete at the lowest price, I really don't understand what's going on in this House and what we're really thinking here. We can't be serious. We've already lost our minds if we're going this way, that we're going to compete at the lowest price for artistic creation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u11	I thank you and another de facto Mr Komárek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u12	I don't want to suspect an honored colleague of Benda's misrepresentation of my words on purpose. I don't think he just didn't understand them, he didn't listen to the whole speech, I guess I was boring. So, through Madam President, dear colleague Marek Benda, I did not say that there should be competition for artistic shows at the lowest price, I was merely stating Martin Kolovratník's claim that everything is competing on television. [[He's laughing.]] No, this isn't a competition. These are things that are not really controlled, which are decided only by the Director-General. Again, I don't know if it's right or wrong, and after all, I don't even care. That's why I want Marek Benda fixed in the second thing. Again - Mr colleague, I will repeat this, and I will underline it six times for you through Madam President. I'm not talking about Czech TV, let alone running an attack on it. I'm not talking about Czech TV at all, because I don't think it's for politicians. If you're talking about her, you talk about her. I'm talking about the Czech Television Council. If you, as a member of the Constitutional Legal Committee, don't know the difference enough, I'll explain it to you. The Council of Czech Television corresponds to this House. It is entirely legitimate to talk about the Council of Czech Television in this House and it is not crazy at all. So, my colleague, please read the Czech Television Act, or the Rules of Procedure of this House, and do not insult others. It's gonna be really good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u13	Thank you. Mr. Kalousek, I am so sorry, I have one more de facto colleague of Stanjura - but he's letting you go, so your priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u14	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, colleague Stanjur. I am aware that at 15 o'clock we have to start a new point, so just a very brief position. If we were really discussing the annual report here and really trying to make the public institution better, I can imagine a lot of critical remarks and a lot of comments on the activities of Czech Television. But it's not like that. There's only a substitute argument coming up. One plane is the level of economics of Czech television, perhaps the level of the council's work, and the other plane is what we are witnessing today and daily, the relentless raid of those who have dominated the media environment in the Czech Republic, from which the chief of Agrofert is first and the desperate effort to get under control of public media, which still resists. [[♪ There's a noise in the hall ♪]] The chairman of the electoral committee, a footman so embarrassing and ridiculous that his own boss makes fun of him and doesn't appreciate him at all, is constantly trying to tell us that we should not approve the Czech Television Council under his formulated proxy, thereby allowing his boss, who might like it, to gain a greater influence on Czech television. Even if we have thousands of critical comments, we won't allow it. We're gonna laugh at the loki and tell his boss no. We are in favour of approving this report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u15	Thank you. In fact, Mr Komárek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u16	I can see that Mr Kalousek is really enjoying his human and political dernier in any condition. I'm happy for him. I know he's already a slow top without Star, and he's about to topless, so he can insult me all he wants. It's fun, it's fun, it's fun, we'll laugh about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u17	Now please, with Mr Birke's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u18	Thank you very much. I would ask my colleague and colleagues to vote because we have exactly two minutes until the end of this point. I would like to request the withdrawal of technical assistance and proceed to the vote. Thank you. As rapporteur, I would like to ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u19	I am sorry, but we cannot proceed to the vote immediately because we have Mr Bendl's general debate and then we still have to open a detailed debate, so we are definitely not speeding it up. Ambassador, I'm sorry. It's a minute to go, and I don't want to interrupt - or if you want? Come on. I'll have to interrupt you later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u20	If the rapporteur had not delayed, I was prepared to say that I do not want to take any further account of the purpose behaviour of the YES and the Communists. I had a long material here that I wanted to say, but I think it's pointless. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u21	Okay. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. It's not like that. I am concluding a general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in the final word. It's not like that. We will proceed to the debate in detail. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? It's not like that. I am concluding a detailed debate. I'm asking for an interest in final words. It's not like that. Before we proceed to the vote on the proposal that will be introduced to us by the rapporteur, I will sign you all off and ask you all to sign up with your cards. Mr rapporteur, if you can read the motion for a resolution, do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Resolution of the Election Committee of the 15th meeting of 2 October 2014 on the Annual Report on the Economics of Czech Television in 2013, print 283: Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies after hearing the opening words of the President of the Council ČT Mgr Jaroslav Dědič, Mr Jan Birke's report and, first, after the debate, recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that it adopt the following resolution: I. Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approves the Annual Report on the Management of Czech Television in 2013 according to Parliament's Press 283; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; III. empowers the rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the 2013 Annual Report on Czech Television's Management by the Election Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u23	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? I conclude the vote, it is the vote with order number 203, to which 136 are entered, for 91, against 31. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u24	Thank you. I would just like to express my respect for the common sense of this House despite the oligarchs and their ridiculous cocksuckers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-013-115.u25	We will proceed to discuss a fixed point and this is
