ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u1	148. Government bill amending Act No. 243/2000 Coll., on the budgetary determination of the revenue of certain taxes to local authorities and certain state funds (the Act on budgetary determination of taxes), as amended (the Parliamentary Press 416/ - 3rd reading) I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee and, at the same time, the Budget Committee, Mr Jan Volný, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Parliaments of the Press 416/3, which was delivered on 7 October 2015. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the Parliamentary Press 416/4. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of today's discussion is the government proposal for an amendment to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, House press No. 416. As you are all aware, the subject of the proposal is to increase the percentage by which the regions contribute to the return on value added tax from 7,86 % to 8,92 %, with effect from 1 January 2016. Annex No shall remain unchanged. 1, according to which individual regions of the Czech Republic participate in the defined part of the yield. The regions long-term demand an increase in their VAT share to 8,92 %, in other words, to cancel the corrections to ensure that the additional revenue of the tax measures adopted in 2011 and 2012 belongs exclusively to the State budget. In response to these requirements, an amendment to the Act on Budgetary Determination of Taxes is proposed, which will increase the proportion of regions in VAT revenue to 8,92 % with effect from 1 January 2016. Within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, the regions will receive funds whose use they will be able to decide separately. In absolute terms, this is an increase in the tax revenue of the regions by about 3.5 billion. Crowns. Financial effects in the following years will depend on the amount of value added tax collection. The proposal went through second reading on 6 October. Two amendments were tabled to the proposal, proposing an increase in the share of municipalities in the national gross VAT yield only with different effect. The first amendment was tabled by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which proposes, with effect from 2016, to increase the share of municipalities in VAT to 23.58 %, by approximately 2 billion in volume. CZK, at the expense of the state budget. The second amendment by Members Vladislav Vilímec, Zbyněk Stanjura and Adolf Beznoska proposes a gradual increase in the share of municipalities in VAT since 2017 to 21.83 % in volume of about 3.71 billion. CZK and from 2018 to 23.58 % in volume of 6.76 billion. Crowns. [[10.10 hours]] Both increases in total of 10 billion. 470 miles. CZK under the second amendment will also be at the expense of the state budget. The Ministry of Finance is opposed to the two proposals submitted. The initial reason is the amount of funds increased by tax revenues to municipalities since 2008 in the context of two amendments. This is a total of 16.6 billion. CZK, in 2008 by 4.6, in 2013 by 12, of which 10,5 billion. at the expense of the state budget. The overall impact of the two amendments on municipalities from 2008 to 2014 is plus 56.2 billion. Crowns. Another reason is the economic aspect. The financial situation of municipalities, unlike the regions, is good. Since 2012, municipalities have achieved a significantly positive result: plus 6 billion. in 2012, plus 17 billion. in 2013, plus 9 billion. in 2014. The municipalities' tax revenues are rising. The total tax revenue of municipalities doubled from 2000 to 2014 and increased by more than 40 billion over the last ten years. CZK, despite the economic crisis in 2008. There is no way that we want to punish the municipalities for doing well, as has already been said in the discussions. However, I would like to point out the contradiction in the municipality's claim that there is a lack of funds compared to the fact that the current accounts of municipalities are still growing: 70 billion. in 2012, 82 billion. in 2013, 89 billion in 2014 and 102 billion. in August 2015. And it happens across all the size categories. It follows from this that there is currently no situation for municipalities to increase their tax revenues without a particular reason and intention. On 16 October the proposal was discussed at the 29th meeting of the Committee on Budgets, which did not support any of the proposed amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u3	Thank you. I am opening a debate to which I am registering three applications. The first is Mr Vilímec, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared. [[The rapporteur Free would also like to speak.]] At the beginning, I asked if you wanted to take the floor before the debate opened. Only the Minister asked for it. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u4	I would leave Mr Freeman's seat, but there is no need. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I don't know, the Minister, when he spoke of two amendments, I think he got it wrong. The first amendment - I do not know if it was written wrong - tabled by the Committee on Public Administration, does not propose an increase in the share of VAT to the municipalities in 2016 to 23.58, but only to 21.40. Something else came up. The proposal that I made with my colleagues Stanjura and Beznoska suggests that we get to the unification in 2018 at 23.58 percent. I, too, would like to suspend myself in the context of what has been said here by the Minister, and the arguments have also been put forward by the Ministry of Finance in the meeting of the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. Today I read on the Czech Television in the morning news that we are to negotiate an increase in money for self-government. But self-government is not just a region, self-government is also a community. And it is simply a fact that this government proposal is put forward that the government and, above all, the Ministry of Finance do not have the same approach within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes on the one hand for the regions and on the one hand for the municipalities. Yes, the Ministry of Finance, I do not know how long-term, but the pressure of the authorities and the demands of the authorities and the regions in general, has brought together a share of all shared taxes of 8.92 %, i.e. an autonomous increase in the share of the RUD regions of about 3.5 billion. Crowns. It should be stressed that this requirement is legitimate. The reduction in the VAT share three years ago was linked solely to the need to create a certain financial cushion for the start of pension reform, especially for the introduction of the second pillar. This does not apply today, because today we are to discuss in the third reading a proposal that repeals the pension pillar. Yes, let's return this share to the original level. That's a perfectly legitimate requirement. I would be the last as a longtime regional representative to question this request somehow. Of course, the Ministry of Finance, and I understand that, in the meantime, it has become accustomed to having a greater share of tax revenues in VAT, I understand that, and I do not like to give up this increase, which is why it has also been postponed, to discuss the budgetary determination of taxes, and actually, thanks to the proposal of the right-wing opposition, it has been in time for negotiations so that we can decide at third reading with effect from 1 January. I understand that the Ministry of Finance does not want to give up on this, however, as I said, the requirement of the regions is legitimate and certainly cannot be rejected. It is obvious, and I do not want to discuss that increasing the share will help the existing regional representation before regional elections, but there are always some choices every year, and I do not want to question it. But if - and now I get to the municipalities and our amendments - we said yes, let us return to the regions, as former Minister Kalousek said, who took Kalousek from them, so-called in quotation marks, said it in the Committee on Budgets, so I borrow a quote, then we must say that it must also apply, but also in the case of municipalities. They, too, have been reduced by their share of VAT. First from 2012 to 19.93 %, later in connection with the increase in the RUD of municipalities, but the municipalities that were located in the so-called settlement of tax revenues per capita, to the current 20.83 %. Exactly for identical reasons, so that municipalities do not benefit from pension reforms, as was the case with the regions. Moreover, I will not forgive the State not to mention this, in the context of a transitional measure in the context of the need to stabilise public budgets, it has also humiliated the share of taxes on dependent activities. And even though these transitional measures had already gone away this year, it was mainly a renewal of the tax deduction for working pensioners, a lower percentage, i.e. 22.87 percent of the share of the tax on dependent activities, remained in force for this year as well. Even in connection with the founding of the Constitutional Court, working pensioners have claimed back part of the tax for 2013 in the form of a tax return, which, as is known, in connection with the so-called 30% incentive element of municipalities on the collection of this tax, has to a greater extent affected their tax revenues, whether it was this year or last year. I'm stating this for one simple reason. I want to demonstrate that, unfortunately, in the last two years, it has not been a solid approach to the municipalities in relation to the budgetary determination of taxes. mlčky tolerated the illogical setting of the budgetary determination of tax revenues and profited from it himself. [[10.20 hours]] In principle, the Ministry of Finance argues against the settlement of the budgetary determination of taxes in the case of municipalities and against our amendments in two respects. He is described here by the Minister of Finance, but I do not agree with them. First, yes, it took place either in 2008 or since 2008 and then since 2013 to raise the budgetary determination of municipal taxes. That's right. However, if the Minister of Finance looked at the explanatory memorandum and read it, in the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry of Finance acknowledged that although the volume of tax revenues of municipalities had a positive effect on the amendment to the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes No. 295/2012 Sb. effective from 1 January 2013. But be careful, then adds: However, the overall effects of this amendment on municipalities were significantly differentiated due to changes in weights and criteria in redistribution between individual municipalities of the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Finance therefore states what many municipalities claim, not only I, that not every municipality benefited from the change in the budgetary determination of taxes. In principle, the main purpose of the last amendment was to settle the budgetary determination of taxes on municipalities of size, and the mayors remember this very well, about 1,500 to 10,000 inhabitants, who have significantly experienced the change in the budgetary determination of taxes effective since 1 January 2008. I note that the larger cities in particular over 20,000 people have not benefited either from the change in the budgetary determination of taxes in force since 2008 or from the last amendment in force since 2013. This means arguing that, for certain groups of municipalities in 2008 and 2013, the budgetary determination of taxes was increased so as to reduce the gap between the smallest municipalities and larger cities, it simply is not serious. The second reason that the Ministry of Finance has not said happily is the so-called reality, and today he repeated this, although softened by the Minister of Finance, is the so-called fact that the municipalities, unlike the regions, manage well. So it has quite a historical context and tradition. The municipalities tried to make sure that you looked, Minister, in their majority they always managed responsibly, whether the budgetary determination of taxes was one or the other. This was also the case in the 1990s when the tax structure was completely different, and so it is now. The municipalities, unlike the regions, may not have such a concentrated political reach, they know that no one can help them in their management, and they have to help themselves. So they try to manage so that they do not get into unsolvable financial problems. Naturally, we will also find exceptions because the municipalities are almost 6,250, but there are very few exceptions. However, this does not mean that municipalities have sufficient funds to repair local roads, schools, kindergartens or cultural monuments. The very fact that the municipalities have in their account is somehow not relevant in relation to the discussion of the budgetary determination of taxes. I think that's obvious. In addition, I would like to point out that the new planning period does not think much about municipal infrastructure. In fact, it is not possible to finance local communications or cultural monuments from European money at all. There is already a significant difference in relation to regional roads, for which the IROP regions can raise money. Despite - and the Minister did not mention this, only one part of it is always mentioned - the successful management of municipalities, however, is growing slightly in debt, whether it is caused by pre-financing European projects or by other investments. Only last year was the exception, the debts of municipalities were reduced by 2.3 billion. CZK, thanks to the reduction in debt in the four largest cities. Without them, the total debt of municipalities would increase by 600 million. Kč. So when we point out, on the one hand, how many municipalities have in their accounts, we also need to see what the debt of the municipalities is. The two amendments tabled here aim to increase the share of municipalities in VAT in the logic of these changes, in the context of these changes in the regions and in the logic of the abolition of the second pension pillar. While the proposal of the Public Administration Committee proposes to increase the share of VAT next year, as I said, to a level of only 21.40, i.e. to a level of 2011 before the last major change in the budgetary determination of taxes, our proposal is based on the fact that in 2012 there was an increase in the budgetary determination of taxes in the case of smaller cities, not on a flat-rate increase in all municipalities and cities. That is why it is logical, of course, to tie the balance to the current situation, as is the case with the regions. However, our proposal is designed to give time to the Ministry of Finance and, in general, to prepare for such a logical change. So he's counting on an increase of one percentage point, about 3.5 billion. CZK from 1 January 2017 and with a total settlement, which is another approximately 6.5 billion. CZK, so the Ministry of Finance reports some -set of millions more, but these are always estimates, which will then prove whether they were accurate or inaccurate. This means that the next step is about 6.5 billion. or 6,7 billion. CZK in 2018. I must say that more responsibility and more helpfulness to the Ministry of Finance really cannot be found. [[He turns to the Minister of Finance:]] I can repeat that more responsibility and helpfulness to the Ministry of Finance cannot be found by this proposal, because we do not enter into the 2016 State Budget. We say yes, 2016 is in some kind of discussion, but let's make the change so that it will take place in 2017 and 2018. Among other things, it is serious to the mayors, because, as we all know, we are in the first quarter of the parliamentary term and it is serious to give the mayors a sort of driving plan of what funds they can expect by 2018, i.e. by the end of the parliamentary term. However, our proposal is designed to be put to the vote even if the committee's proposal is passed. That means they don't rule out each other. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, when I see the rapporteur here, through Mr President, the rapporteur also gave a neutral opinion on both proposals, and it is clear that representatives too, without arguing in any way, the government coalitions consider these proposals to be logical and reasonable. koneckonců all, the Minister of Finance was at the last assembly of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and these proposals, of course, were heard and confronted. These are proposals such that sooner or later they will still have to be enforced. Both proposals are also supported by the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities. There's been a rare coincidence here. In the past, most of what was supported by the Association of Local Authorities did not support the Union of Cities and Municipalities, and now there is mutual agreement. You may have received a majority of Members or perhaps all Members have received an opinion from the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I would just like to quote from the opinion of the Union of Towns and Municipalities: Municipalities, I quote, as well as the regions, in 2011 revenues in the budgetary determination of taxes were humiliated because of the pension pillar. However, it was abolished by the government this year - he was not yet, but he probably will - and it would be right to return this money to cities and municipalities, as is the case with the regions, when it is proposed to return their share of VAT to the original amount as part of the amendment. Although cities and municipalities are very well managed, paradoxically, this often leads to the fact that money is being taken away from them. And a brief quote from the opinion of the Association of Local Authorities. I quote: If municipalities and regions shared not increasing their income together when the State wanted to finance pension reform by raising VAT, then if this reform was abolished, it is quite unjustified, if the strengthening of the budget is only to reach the regions. So it's just a short quote from some of the letters you received, and you got more letters from the Association of Communities, etc. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to say that we are in a situation where the economy is at the top or when the economy is going up, and that is why when is the time for a return to a united share in shared taxes than when the economy is going up? And that is why it is a good time to make such a change and levelling the current situation. [[10.30 hours]] I'm not talking anymore. I thank my colleagues in advance for supporting these proposals, because the support is logical regardless of how much money the municipalities have in their accounts. It is logical in this sense: if the State has lost funds in connection with the pension reform and the share of self-government in value added tax, which has been increased in a situation where this pension pillar is abolished, it is completely logical and completely solid to return it to the municipalities as well as to the regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u5	I thank Mr Vilímc. [[Weak applause from the right.]] Now two factual points, I will ask my colleague Kovářová to wait. Two factual points by Mr Beznoska and Mrs Fischerová. Now, therefore, Mr Adolf Beznoska's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. My dear colleagues and I think that the excellent performance of my colleague Vilímec, who has precisely mapped the whole situation, is only left for me to ask you to make amendments, and I would almost dare say, of course, my best, his and my colleague Stanjura, because the budget, if money and resources flow from the central budget into the budget of self-government, is the right principle. It's the right way. The Minister of Finance recalled an excellent trend, which has been taking place since 2008, when from 2008 to 2014, the budgets of municipalities increased by around 50 billion. Let us continue this trend and support these budgets with another 10 billion by 2018. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u7	Thank you, Mr Beznosk. Now, Mrs Fischerová, also on the point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u8	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear colleagues, I will follow the words of Mr Vilímec and Mr Beznoska, because I will say so-called in pale blue, I am also one of those who have spent some years in town halls in the Authority, and I have received and I believe that you too have received many e-mails. It was both written and e-mailed. These are the positions of the mayors of small municipalities in particular, who are asking us, all Members, Minister of Finance, to keep the municipalities from staying away, because even if they are well managed, as you said, they want the regions to get a raise, but they feel this disadvantage, because the municipalities, when they get public funds at the time of economic growth, I think, as you said, are those who really know how to work with it. They are so monitored from their immediate surroundings that they are mainly interested in the maintenance of municipal property, and this is a priority that they particularly need to support. So I refer to the opinion of the amendment both to the Committee on Public Administration and, in particular, to the amendment of three Members per ODS, because there is a very good distribution of the income of municipalities within three years. And what is important - even mayors and mayors must, by law, form a budgetary plan, and that is exactly what this allows them to do. So I am also asking all of us present to support these amendments, in particular, which support the income of ten billion for the municipalities in the next three years. Thank you some for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u9	Thank you, Madame, for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I still ask Mrs Kovářová to wait, I have two further factual points, Mr Horáček and Mr Pavel Plzák. Mr Václav Horáček, now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a longtime mayor, I would also very much like to take a stand on a proposal from the Public Administration Committee and my colleagues Stanjury, Vilímec. I think it's a logical process. You know, there's this thing that's kind of stopped me. The Minister of Finance here said literally: The balance of municipalities and management is positive. We don't want to punish them for doing well. At the same time, I add to that: that is why we will not add to them. So I don't know what to choose from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u11	I thank Mr Horáček. [[A slight round of applause from the right.]] Mr Pavel Plzák, also on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened with interest to Mr Vilímec's exhibit and then looked over there to see if we were at second reading or at third reading. I think that this was to be heard at second reading, and if I am not mistaken, I have yet looked into the Rules of Procedure, so in this debate we can only propose - I will stress, correct legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in written or printing, adjustments which logically result from the amendments tabled, or make a proposal for repeating second reading. None of this came out. So thank you, and I hope we don't do this again next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u13	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Now also Mr Petr Bendl, also on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my previous speaker, who says that we can no longer express ourselves at the third reading. I would like to emphasise here that at the third reading we have on the table, on the one hand, amendments that we did not have at the second reading. It was just someone who announced that he would submit them etc., and it was not possible to comment on them. And we have normally a general debate and a detailed debate on individual amendments. Please try to be Democrats and let those who have anything to say about the law debate. It's not irrelevant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u15	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. [[Weak applause.]] And since I can now give the floor to Mrs Věra Kovářová, I invite her to give her my word, and before that, I will apologize to Mrs Maxová from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u16	Thank you for the floor. In the beginning, I would like to respond to Mr Plzák. We have had this debate and reading from the Rules of Procedure several times. It has been made clear that the Rules of Procedure lay down what is possible, which means that what cannot be said. There is no discussion of the fact that it cannot be discussed or discussed, because it is assumed that a third reading can also convey an opinion on the amendments, and each Member has the right to persuade his colleagues to support the amendments. So much reaction to a colleague. Now, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, allow me to speak briefly at third reading in support of the amendment adopted by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. As of 1 January 2016, this proposal envisages an increase in the share of municipalities in the revenue of value added tax from 20,83 % to 21,4%, which corresponds to the entitlement to the state budget of approximately CZK 2 billion. From the state budget's point of view, it's a small sum. From the point of view of municipalities and cities, the amount is not small, which they could undoubtedly use in favour of their development. A large proportion of which would come to the Czech and Moravian countryside, which, of course, needs public investment as salt. We all know that. I hope the Minister knows that too. An amount of which, even in our cities, would find meaningful use. The amount, which is approximately half the expected increase in income from the regions, would be spent on the real needs of individual municipalities. [[10.40 hours]] In addition to the fact that strengthening the incomes of both categories of self-government, not only the regions, as the original proposal assumes, is effective, it is also fair. When the second pillar of pension reform was introduced, the proportion of the regions and the proportion of municipalities decreased. Now that the second pillar is abolished, should we only increase our share to the regions? No way. I see injustice in such an approach. The municipalities and cities are discriminated against. I do not want to vote for strong words, I do not want to talk about unconstitutionality, but I have to talk about discrimination between municipalities and cities if I do not approve the amendment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. It is also nothing more than discrimination, and it needs to be said quite openly. We also have to say openly that, at the time of current economic growth, the correction of this discriminatory injustice is quite simple and the way to assert it should not be difficult. It is sufficient for most colleagues to support the amendment under the letters A1 and A2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u17	Madam, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. I would like to inform you all that I would like to welcome a foreign delegation. The guest gallery was attended by the delegation of the Chamber of Deputies of the National Congress of the Republic of Chile, led by the President of the House, his Excellency, Mr Marco Antonio Núňez Lozano. [[Members rise and applaud.]] Thank you. Please continue, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u18	In short, and well, it is enough, fellow Members and fellow Members, that most of you will support the amendment under the letters A1 and A2. I beg you and thank you in advance for any support. And all the way to the end. Of course, discrimination is also trying to correct a slightly more generous amendment by colleagues Vilímec, Stanjura and Beznoska. I would like to say that even this proposal has my full support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mr Pavel Plzák's factual comment and we will continue the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u20	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I just have to respond to my criticism. I didn't allow myself to do anything but quote the Rules of Procedure here, which is the law. We make laws, we should obey them. Nothing else. If we're looking at this differently, then I think the legislative department or something should say something about it here, I think I understand it differently than the opposition colleagues. I'm not mad at them for that. It just seems strange to me that we are often basing here on whether anyone correctly questioned the vote whether the wording was correct or not, but there is nothing specifically about the wording in the Rules of Procedure. And here, where the law, the Rules of Procedure, tells us exactly what the third reading is about, so let's either change the Rules of Procedure - I'm in, let's change it, if we want it this way, let's change it, but let's keep it. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u21	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Before the next two factual points were registered - Mr Stanjura and Mrs Kovářová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u22	Well, I can't do it. It's not a bassing thing. If you want to question the vote, you can't say you voted differently than you wanted. It's just a little late. If anyone says they voted somehow, and there's a different result from what he actually voted on, it's a different case. It's not a word game. Many colleagues and colleagues come here, and I would say that almost most often from your movement, and they say, "I wanted to vote no, and I voted yes." But there is no question of voting. It's just a confession that this guy didn't know how to vote. Let's talk about that. On the other hand, when government MPs speak, no one cares. When such an important point is being pursued not only by citizens today, but I would say not only by the 6 245 mayors, but by all the representatives and certainly by each club you will find your party colleagues who prepare budgets for next year, as I think it is an extremely important law. Plus, we don't even want to support the government part. I think that's a big consensus in the Chamber of Deputies, no one is protesting a government proposal. We are discussing legitimately how to help municipalities, and these are additional proposals. They're not against the government proposal, so it's totally legitimate. We, who consider the support of local policy to be extremely important, will, of course, speak to that and try to persuade you, who are still hesitating to support it. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u23	I thank Mr Stanjur for his time. Now there is a point in fact made by Mrs Kovářová and then by Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u24	I will follow up on the debate on the Rules of Procedure, and I will quote what is written in the Rules of Procedure: In the third reading, there is a debate in which it is possible to propose only the correction of legislative technical errors, etc. Mr colleague, neither I nor my colleague, Vilímec, have proposed anything, so we can speak and talk about our amendments, but we cannot propose a new amendment. This is for the Rules of Procedure. And if we are at the third reading, we are discussing amendments, we are discussing, if necessary, the opinions of the various clubs, so I would like to be interested and I would like to see Mr Plzák through the President not to draw attention from the arguments that we have put forward here, and I would like to know his view of the amendments that we have tabled with my colleague Vilímc. Because I warn you that in the Committee on Public Administration, your two colleagues supported my amendment. Does that mean it's the club's position? I would also like coalition Members to express themselves in this debate. I wonder, and not a quote from the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. One more factual remark from Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm just trying to make sure there's no misunderstanding. Mr Stanjura has rightly opposed the often illegitimate way of questioning the vote. For those colleagues who are in the first period, I will try to say this as clearly as possible. You must not tell the truth if you want to put a credible question to the vote. It happens to some of you sometimes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u27	Thank you, in particular, for keeping time on the point of fact. We're good to go. Mr Herbert Pavera, in due debate at third reading and after, Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u28	Nice and pleasant morning, Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr Finance Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I understand the appearance of colleagues from the coalition. Mr Plzák certainly has the right to express his opinion, because we are in the Chamber of Deputies, and everyone here can say his opinion democratically and freely. But I would like to go back to why I am here, and ask you, colleagues, to support the budgetary determination of taxes, the increase in the budgetary determination of taxes, and towards municipalities and cities. I will also say a few facts and things that may have already been said here, and some have not. Today we will decide whether the regions or municipalities will receive additional funding for their further development. The amendment submitted by the Government and the Ministry of Finance amending Act No. 243/2000 Coll., on the budgetary determination of the revenues of certain taxes to local authorities and certain state funds, is in the third reading, and so today we will decide how municipalities and regions will gain an advantage for further development. [[10.50 hours]] The aim of the proposal is to address, above all, the ongoing pressure to strengthen regional budgets so that, through the greater financial autonomy of the regions, the regions can support the development of their regions. This is what I'm saying from the explanatory memorandum, and I'm continuing from the explanatory memorandum, just as a reminder to everyone else. In the explanatory memorandum, there is also a table showing what tax revenue the State, the municipalities and the regions have to pay. From this table in the explanatory memorandum, the government considered that the adjustment of the VAT share for the regions was less favourable in 2012 and 2013 than in the case of municipalities and the state budget. On the other hand, it is also stated that this assessment is simplified, since the volume of VAT revenue for municipalities has been positively influenced by the amendment to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes effective from 1. 1. 2013, however, the overall effects of this amendment on municipalities were significantly differentiated as a result of changes in weights and criteria of redistribution between the various municipalities of the Czech Republic. In Table No 1 the income of the capital city of Prague is included in the municipal tax revenue, which is also mentioned in the text of the explanatory memorandum. We all know what the revenues of the capital city of Prague are, and Prague's income is significantly distorting the income of all municipalities. Since 2016, an increase in the value added tax ratio of 7,86 % to 9,82 % is proposed. This proposal responds to criticism from the regions and will certainly lead to increased financial autonomy, stabilisation of regional budgets and the development of regions, as has already been said here. I must say that not only I, but also my colleagues and colleagues fully support the increase in this budgetary determination of taxes to the regions, because the regions need funding to repair travels, hospitals, education and so on. During the discussion of the bill in the first and second reading, the current and former mayors and Members of Parliament, who pointed out that, in addition to the regions, municipalities should also be added. Similarly to the regions as a result of the budgetary measures, the tax rate proposed by the municipalities was reduced from 23,58 % to 20,83 %. In this way, municipalities lose approximately 600 crowns per citizen each year, which is quite a large amount. For this reason, too, some Members, Mrs Kovářová, colleague Vilímec, colleague Stanjura, colleague Beznoska, have proposed amendments to remedy this inequality. The increase would burden the state budget by more than CZK 6 billion from 2018. It's enough, but I think, like the Treasury Secretary, he always found money when he said there was no money, and eventually after a week of searching, he always found money there. I believe that the Minister of Finance will find this money in this case too. Unfortunately, the Committee on Guarantees, which is the Committee on Budgets, does not recommend approving these amendments. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether he thinks it is right to add only to the regions and municipalities not. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether the municipalities need money for further development. And I would also ask the Minister of Finance if he even knows what problems the municipalities and cities are facing. I'll answer it myself: The Minister of Finance doesn't think of anything else, and he doesn't know what kind of problems the municipalities and cities often face. The Minister of Finance also said that the municipalities are doing well, so they do not need more money. From this I concluded that the state and the regions are doing badly, because we have to add to the regions and the state is managing the deficit of tens of billions. I can only conclude that the municipalities are just doing well and the regions and the state is wrong. The Minister of Finance has pointed out here that there are tens of billions of crowns in the accounts of municipalities and cities. He was talking about the amount of $100 billion there. When I recounted how much is going on average per village, it is about CZK 15 million. It is not a big sum when you take the fact that municipalities are often preparing for repairs of roads, pavements, sewers, large projects that they have also been waiting for from European subsidies - which unfortunately they will not be able to finance from these programmes in the new programming period. Therefore, municipalities have money in their accounts to implement projects that help improve life in individual municipalities and cities. I have already told here last time during the second reading that many municipalities and cities have not repaired pavements and communications in 25 years since the revolution, and the state has unfortunately decided to give the municipalities only as much as they think they will be able to, instead of giving them as much as they need. I am not only criticizing the current government, the previous governments have also made a mistake, although the penultimate one has just taken a huge step towards the development of municipalities and cities by increasing the budgetary determination of taxes. You know, in the last ten years, I have visited a number of very important regions in the developed countries of Europe with my colleagues from Hlučín, and I have already said this here. We were in Austria, Switzerland, Germany, southern Tyrol and northern Italy and Holland. Of course, these regions are located in richer and more advanced countries, but they are successful mainly because they have many times higher budgets than comparable municipalities and cities. Dear colleagues, if you do not support an increase in the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities and cities, you show to the citizens that you do not appreciate the demanding work of mayors who are fighting for each crown for their community and that you do not appreciate even citizens who are entitled to quality life in the community. I would also like to propose one more thing to the Minister of Finance, which results from the fact that municipalities and cities receive a lot of finance in taxes, but many of this money is returned to the State for VAT, for social and health contributions, which often makes at least one fifth of the contributions. It would certainly help municipalities and cities to be VAT payers and to apply VAT refunds in particular to their investments in buildings and the like. It is also possible to think about how to help municipalities and cities to really develop and create a quality place for the lives of their citizens. Dear colleagues, I believe that you will not only hear the comments and requests of us mayors who are standing before you, but also of all the citizens who are waiting to have the pavement repaired, to have the communication repaired and to have all the services available in their municipalities and cities. Thank you for your understanding and possible support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u29	That was Mr. Herbert Pavera. And before we go any further, Mr Pavel Plzák, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u30	Thank you, Mr President, for the last time, more or less because I have been called upon to debate by Mrs Kovářová. I can tell her that I have great sympathy for her amendment, just as I know many members of the Civil Democratic Party who want a fair competitive environment and have a great deal of understanding for the introduction of electronic sales records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u31	Thank you, we can continue the debate - but Mrs Kovářová also makes a point of fact. And then Petr Bendl, his colleague, will perform. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u32	I would like to ask, through the President, what understanding means. Does this mean that you will vote in favour of this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u33	Thank you. I think this debate is premature, we can't even begin the vote yet, because I have yet another one to sign up for. Now, with Mr Zdeněk Soukup's point of fact, and then perhaps we will finally continue the debate with a speech of properly registered Members. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u34	I've only had a short time. Ladies and gentlemen, on the right, Mr. Plzák is putting ashes on his head. Leave him alone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u35	Well, thank you. Mr Petr Bendl, Mr František Vácha, will now prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u36	Thank you. Through Mr President, we will not let you, because I must show you this, so that once and for all we can be clear about the third reading, so I recommend you all to read this Section 95 paragraph. 2 in which it is written: In the third reading, a debate is held in which only correction of legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, etc. can be proposed. [[Laughing in the right side of the courtroom]] This means that it is no longer possible to correct everything that we have put forward until then, where we have tabled amendments, etc. But at the third reading, there is a debate on each material, regardless of whether anyone likes it or not. The law would have to change. And one more point is that, with all due respect, Mr Plzák, through Mr President, we should probably talk about matters relating to this law and not to the EET. You're kind of denying what you said a moment ago that it's only necessary to discuss matters relating to the law. But you're dragging the register here, which I don't think really belongs here. And I'd agree with you on that if you hadn't started with a little bit of respect. I have duly applied to this bill, because we have discussed it in detail in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and across the political spectrum, which has already fallen, we have been able to agree on an acceptable compromise, which says that cities and municipalities should also be thought of. My colleagues here have often repeated arguments. I don't know if there was an argument here that there really was an impact on the incomes of the municipalities when the second pension pillar had to be bailed out, and the government pushed that the second pension pillar didn't need to be, that pensions would be, that there was no problem anymore, that pensioners didn't have to worry. The previous government felt that we should think about these pensions more, oko, the coalition majority here pushed through, that there is no need to think about pensions as much as the previous governments thought, because the money is, but in that case it should apply: if we return to the regional authorities what was taken from them, we should return it to the municipal authorities as well. On this, I will say across the political spectrum, we have agreed on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and we have recommended that you respect that. Yesterday I listened to not only the opposition MEPs during the interview, when they intersected the various ministers, or the Prime Minister, but also the coalition MPs, when I suspect colleague Seďa here, through the President, said that there was a need for money for monuments or for some kind of... [[dissent from the diaper]] ... so it was someone else, I apologize... that there is a need to strengthen the grant titles for chapels and cultural heritage and so on and so on, which are the individualities that a Member must ask for here by public intervention, and if we support the proposal of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, or the proposal of colleagues Stanjura, Vilímec, Beznoska and others, then we can say that we have helped everyone in general without distinction of political affiliation, regardless of whether one or the other city is governed by the coalition, and we will be fair in this respect. I want to thank those Members who voted in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development for this proposal. I appreciate that they probably have experience from working in municipal benches or regional ones, and they know that they should, not only state and regional, if we have decided to strengthen them here, but also the municipal ones, that they should breathe together, and that we should strengthen their participation in the share of VAT profits. We have spoken here, and I would like to stress that we have often transferred responsibilities to the municipalities, and we have not done too much to bail out those responsibilities from the state budget. I will only mention the Waste Act and new titles where municipalities and cities have to collect biowaste, and so on and so on, and that they have some spending to do with it. I will recall the exemption from the agricultural original fund, where, unlike the State, we want municipalities to pay for the exemption from the agricultural soil fund for community-friendly actions, but the State does not have to pay for the exemption from the agricultural soil fund in the event of its activities. Like the government here, it often says that it wants to add to civil servants and self-government and raises wage tables, but the state does not contribute as much to the municipalities as it wants them to pay. Then it must be said whether it is fair for us to at least in this way support the higher incomes of cities and municipalities. I'm listening to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister here, as he says, we're going to add to the officials we're going to add everything to the teachers. But, again, the subsidies that go there will not cover the needs that the authorities have with it, whether it concerns primary, kindergarten or secondary schools. We have talked here about the participation of cities and municipalities in programmes and projects funded by the European Union. Basically, we encourage municipalities to be indebted because we say: if you want to reach the funds, you have to have the funds of your own, and on the other hand, I have listened to a number of ministers and coalition MEPs here who say: we need to exhaust, we have not drawn in the past, we need to drain all the funds. And we are pushing, or the state is pushing cities and municipalities and regions to make use of funds, possibly natural persons, legal persons, etc., to the maximum extent possible. That is why we are pushing cities and municipalities to go into debt. Yet the words of the Minister of Finance, here he said: municipalities and cities manage well. And that, despite the pressure that is being put on them, because they don't have the funds for the needs they need for those citizens, and they're creating grant titles here that assume they're going to have some of their own resources. Well, where they're supposed to take them, the amounts aren't very large. Regardless, and I am stressing this very much, and I hope that the promise of the Minister for Regional Development will apply, that they will analyse the state of the art of the infrastructure of municipalities and cities throughout the Czech Republic, so that we can see if the scissors are opening, and possibly in which localities of the Czech Republic or in which regions, in terms of equipment, especially the necessary public infrastructure, such as plumbing, sewerage, roads and so on and so on or if not. [[11.10 hours]] I have already performed on this material at first and second reading, and I have asked colleagues who are sitting in regional embassies today not to run into the fact that the decision to strengthen only regional budgets is an election gift. Because they should be fair to cities and municipalities and they should, and, after all, maybe that was why we agreed on this to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, that we want the budgets of cities and municipalities to be supported, so please also try to take this into account so that you are not in conflict of interest here. Support cities and municipalities as well. Otherwise, given that social democracy is largely dominated in the Czech Republic, it will clearly look like that the budgetary determination of taxes applies to the regions just because social democracy has its prime minister and is ruling in 95 percent of the regions. That's what I think you need to be fair to all self-governments regardless of who currently has or doesn't have a majority there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u37	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. We continue with the debate by speaking to Mr František Vácha. A colleague of the Zahradník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers, Mr Vilímec, Mr Kovářová, Mr Pavera and Mr Bendl, have done a very good and thorough analysis of the problem we have here at the hearing. We decide on the form of a government bill on the budgetary determination of taxes, which in this form can be considered discriminatory. The government consciously wants to increase subsidies to only one level of self-government and to damage the other. Colleagues and colleagues, I assume all of you sitting here are from some village. And I wonder what you're gonna say to the citizens when you get home, if you come to the pub, you're gonna say, "Pepa, we just gave the money to the county, there's not gonna be a sidewalk, there's not gonna be a sewer, 'cause somebody at the club told us to, so we listened to him. It is not possible for us to add to the regions and not to the municipalities at the same time. I don't believe what fell among the previous speakers that this is because of the regional elections. Yet this idea came to plenary here, so we can not mention it. Interesting is the contradiction between the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. We can see that the Committee recommends approving the original version of the amendment, whereas the Committee on Public Administration supports the amendment, I think, to my colleague Kovářová. So here you can see that the Public Administration Committee, that there are people sitting there who understand public administration, whereas on the budget committee there are people who see only the money and no longer see those people, some, probably the coalition and not the opposition see only the money and not the people who are in those municipalities. Minister, on September 10th, I had to intercede you on the issue of a lack of community contribution to the performance of the state administration. I contacted you in connection with the preparation of the state budget for 2016 and with a request for a contribution for municipalities to the transferred performance of the state administration. It is known that a number of municipalities have long paid from their tax revenues, which we are talking about. For example, in my hometown, it's 80 miles. Every year, 80 miles. Ceske Budejovice is paid annually for the transfer of state administration. Of course, we know that it has been a few years without valorisation and that for next year the total amount of resources for the administration should increase by one percent, I think. This is certainly worthwhile, but of course this amount is insufficient. As an example, I can say that the government, and this has already been mentioned many times, is going to increase civil servants' wages by at least three percent, which also applies to government officials and will mean additional spending by the authorities. It would mean about 3.5 miles in our town. The crown, but we're not getting any extra money for it. What is interesting, what you have answered to me, and I think it might be said here that "I am convinced that there is also a significant share in the current situation that individual departments are not motivated to minimise the imposed administrative burden and the associated financial effects". Well, that's interesting when we look at how we discussed the draft state budget and learned that only on the new wage spending of new civil servants are you going to spend some 20 billion, if I'm not mistaken, it was this amount. What is even more interesting is that you will write to me that, in addition to the facts mentioned, the fact that the contribution to the administration's performance is significant, the contribution of the State, but not the only source of cover for the delegation, including, among other things, tax revenue. So you agree in that answer that part of the burden of the government must be covered by tax revenue, but when it comes to the amendment to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, you give nothing to the municipalities and give it only to the regions. So don't take it away from them, especially if, for example, you want to increase the salaries of civil servants. It has already been mentioned here that the overall reduction in 2011 by 17.6% was due to a certain investigation into the second pillar of the pension savings. You're canceling that now, or you're probably canceling it for three points if we even get there. But you just send the money to the county and not to the municipalities. I must say that I reject the idea that you mentioned here in your speech, and that the municipalities are saving, they have a lot of money, and so we will punish them. I can tell you that I personally, if someone is doing well and saving up, I wouldn't punish him, I would reward him for that. And, in order that he is not here, Mr Plzák, however, in order to keep up with his interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I will mention two fundamental amendments. The first is the amendment by Mrs Kovářová, who took up as his committee on state administration. This concerns 2016. There I feel that maybe, and I hope that the House and it seems that some coalition Members will support this proposal, hopefully at least those who supported it on that committee. [[11.20 hours]] But there is another amendment by Mr Vilímec, who probably did not make it to that committee, which concerns the following years. We will help the municipalities a little more in this first amendment to the Committee on State Administration, but we should focus on increasing revenue in the following years as suggested by Mr Vilímec. In conclusion, I will give you one example, a very similar example to what is going on here and what is going on in the amendment by Mr Vilímec, who we have already agreed on here, and these are our salaries. Our salaries have been reduced, or our predecessors' salaries, due to the crisis. And then we came in and we said, well, we don't raise them all at once, but we're going to gradually increase them by some higher coefficient every year. We've raised our own salaries, and we're not giving the community the money? We will not guarantee that these municipalities will gradually increase their contribution every year, so that the municipalities, like us, will be in the same situation over the years that they were in before the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u39	I thank Mr František Vách, Mrs Věra Kovářová and then Mrs Ludvík Hovorka's factual comment. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u40	A number of questions were raised in previous discussions and contributions. I'd like to address the Minister. We lack a follow-up response to our colleagues' questions. My colleague Pavera asked questions, but he answered them himself, so maybe it would be good if we knew your answers too, Minister. We think these are important topics, and we want to discuss them with you. Please come and join this discussion. I'm begging you. Or do you want to settle for a government proposal by force? That would be very bad news for the Czech and Moravian countryside.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u41	Now Mr Ludvík Hovorka's factual comment and then the application by the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches that are being made here are very moving. These are speeches about punishing municipalities. I would like to ask - we all received the letters from Mr Polčák, we received a lot of letters from our mayors. It seems that the only representatives of municipalities and cities who want to do well for our communities and cities, for their residents, for the mayors, are only those who perform here. You know, I don't think that's entirely true. And I'd also like to hear what's changed, what's changed since Wednesday. On Wednesday we were criticized here that we were irresponsible, that in rich times we simply waste money. Here it is proposed to increase the expenditure of the state budget without any compensation. And something's probably changed in those two days, and now we're all acting bad. We want to be responsible so that we don't increase the cost of the state budget, and here we are criticized for not increasing it. In one case by 2 million, in the other case by 3.5 in 2017 and 6 billion in 2018. So it needs to be settled so that this discussion is consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u43	Thank you. So I have a number of factual points. The first factual point was the comment of the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, then Mr Kučera, Stanjura, Vácha and the Prime Minister. You wanted priority rights? Okay, in that case, we shall first draw out the factual remarks, in which case, Mr Michal Kučera, first with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would only briefly respond to my previous speaker, Mr Hovorka. Mr Hovorka, through Mr President, nothing has changed. We're perfectly consistent. We're talking about not only how much money is spent on the state budget, but also what the money is spent on. And what we're criticizing is that you're throwing that money into a black hole, into reformed health systems and the social system, you didn't come up with any reform of these systems, you're throwing that money into that black hole, and we're saying completely consistently, "Give the money to the municipalities." That's where you spend them in the right direction. Those mayors know exactly what to do with the money, and the finance minister confirmed that the municipalities run properly, that they create proper budgets, that the money spent in this direction is absolutely effective. That's why we support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Stanjura is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u46	A response to Mr Hovorka's speech. First of all, we didn't say, and I don't even think that the only people who will vote for the interests of the community today will be our two clubs that perform most. The coalition has a majority in every committee. And the first amendment was passed by the Public Administration Committee. This means, without a doubt, many coalition MPs have added to the good proposal, and we are simply using it to convince the hesitant ones. And the expenses. Well, that's pretty simple. It's about priorities in the budget. You increase transfers to private entities by 9 billion in the draft budget, which is 15%. As for you, as for Mr Hovorka, you voted in favour of this, it is out of the two votes - I do not know how you will vote today, but you say it is more important for me to increase subsidies to private entities by 9 billion than to give all municipalities 2 billion. It's about priorities. If we cross out 9, which we propose in second reading, we can give 2 to the municipalities and 7 are left. That's an obvious attitude. And if you want, instead of that $30 billion, we're gonna bring $32 billion to second reading, where we can save money to have the $2 billion in the community. But I remind you of that committee's vote. I do not exactly remember the numbers, but logically, many coalition Members and members of the Committee on Public Administration supported Mrs Kovářová's proposal. And the fact that we are proposing, we as citizens' democrats, precisely so that the state budget can prepare for this, the further increase in 2017 and 2018 is logical. The draft budget envisages an increase in tax revenue of 33 billion, and we are talking about two for 2016, a further increase of 3.7 billion in 2017 and another 6 billion in 2018, which is the next parliamentary term as well as the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u47	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mr František Vácha's factual comment and then the Prime Minister will have a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to see Mr Hovorka briefly through you. We're not talking about waste, we're talking about fair sharing between municipalities and regions. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u49	Thank you. Now with an application for a debate, with a factual remark from the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u50	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I am here very carefully and carefully listening to the whole debate at third reading, and I am a big fan of the debate. I don't think we're gonna be able to do anything but talk tonight, but I think this debate is too abstract. I would really like it to be more understandable for an audience who does not sit here in the House and who is a citizen. So I'm gonna try to make a little bit more of a contribution to the clarity. First of all, ladies and gentlemen from the right side of the House, who are constantly getting out here one by one and saying that we should not add to the regions that we should add to the municipalities, so they say a thing that is not accurate. We're not adding anything to these counties. All we do is give them back what their right hand took when she was in government. This is not an increase in funds. We're returning what ODS and TOP 09 have taken away from them. Let's be clear, let's face it, and don't be mad that I'm telling the truth here. It's true, you took it from the county, we're giving it back to them. Now watch what the money's up to. When you take a bus or a train, the county subsidizes it. If you call an ambulance, the county subsidizes it. When you go to a county hospital and you lie there, the county subsidizes it. [[11.30 hours]] When social services are provided to you in a retirement home, the county subsidizes it. That's money that goes to people. It's not like the county's getting their money back now, they're gonna use some for their own operation, it's not gonna get to people. When you're on two or three, the county takes care of its maintenance or reconstruction. Where do the twos and the threes lead? They lead among the communities. Where are the retirement homes? They're in the villages. Where do these trains and buses go? Well, he drives people from the villages. Let's not put communities and regions against each other. The counties finance services for people! This is the money that goes to people who need it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u51	[[He's coming in.]] Prime Minister, you have made a point of fact, I must respect the time for you as well. I have this series of factual remarks: Mr Herbert Pavera, Petr Bendl, Zbyněk Stanjura, Michal Kučera, Jiří Dolejš. They're actually logged in now, and then a colleague of Kalousek also electronically... With priority rights... In that case, after Mr. Vice Prime Minister, who signed up with priority rights, but the fact that he was actually ahead of him. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u52	Thank you for the floor. I can't do it, but I have to get off to the Prime Minister. Because he's talking about something else entirely. I mean, nobody here said we didn't want to add to the county. I don't know if the Prime Minister was sitting here listening or listening. But I guess you weren't listening. Because we all said that we were in favour of adding to the regions! That we know what regions need. That we know that the roads, health care, education, etc... I personally said it here. And I'm just gonna finish what I didn't want to say. Prime Minister, if you hadn't been sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies since 1990, and you were normally common with people and you worked in the village, you would have known what those communities needed. So you better not say anything else, because you're talking completely out of line, out of the way!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u53	I thank Mr Herbert Paver. Now, Mr Petr Bendl also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u54	Okay. So once again, because a hundred times the repeated truth becomes the truth. [[♪ A lie ♪]] None of us here has questioned the fact that we want to contribute to the regions, we are just saying that if it is not to be a social democratic gift to the Social Democratic Prime Minister, then if you say so, Prime Minister - and please don't leave... [[Prime Minister Sobotka was headed towards the door and to the benches of social democracy where he remained standing. He's answering off the mike that he's not leaving.]] That it's the money that's been collected... They were collected because the last government counted on them for pensions... Because the last government counted on them for pensions... Because the last government counted on them for pensions, Prime Minister, huh? [[- Please...]] And you say there's enough for pensions, and you say it's time to go back. And we say yes, and give it back to the municipalities. What else do these communities use it for? Also for retirement homes, Prime Minister. Also on the sidewalks. Also at school. Also in kindergarten. So don't be a hypocrite and raise your hand for those communities too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u55	There. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u56	So I could scream like the Prime Minister, but I'm not gonna do it because he amused me. He said: I listened very closely to the debate. But he didn't hear her! Listening and not hearing makes no sense. Prime Minister - and I can call you direct, but okay, Mr Sobotka, through the Vice-President, so it's the same, so that it's correct - try to tell who said in the debate today that we shouldn't add to the regions. [[Prime Minister Sobotka off the microphone: Not add, but return.]] Go back, okay. Who said that? Nobody. Our proposals say we're not going to add to the community, and we're going to pay them back at three. Isn't that right? That's right. And as my colleague, a long-time mayor, who I've never seen so angry, and I've known him for many years, Herbert Pavera, so imagine that retirement homes are also urban! If you took a tram or a subway today, it's subsidized by the city of Prague. If you take a tram or bus or trolleybus in Brno, it subsidizes the city of Brno. So you're saying all the services are done by the county and the municipalities aren't. We've been talking about it repeatedly - and it's point 151... We said why we did it. And now we're saying, if you're canceling the reason, not just give it back to the counties, but give it back to the municipalities. We're even so helpful that we don't give it back to regions in one step like you, but in three years. And if you don't want to give it back to them, come here and tell the village I don't care! You have every right. We don't give them a raise either. We're giving it back. And in three steps, three years old. And you can't find 2 billion, you have 1,125 billion expenses! You can lift by nine billion. subsidies to private companies, you can raise by 9 billion. salaries, but 2 billion. for 6 245 municipalities you can't find! Well, look a little better! That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u57	Thank you for keeping time on this point of fact. Now Mr Michal Kučera's factual remark, then Mr Jiří Dolejš also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u58	Thank you for your word. The Prime Minister said that he was going to bring the audience into this, but he brought chaos into it. Of course, there's been a lot of noise from my previous speakers. The Louny Seniors Home is a city organization, a daily staff member, a city organization, a nursing home, a city organization. So cities receive a lot of these services, which should be provided by the county or by someone completely different. However, the fact that the money goes where it goes, I wouldn't blame Prime Minister Sobotka, but the Minister of Finance Babiš. Because he is the one who rules the state budget, he is the one who draws up the state budget, and he is the one who prevents money from going to municipalities, mayors and the Czech countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u59	I thank Mr Kučer. Mr Jiří Dolejš's factual comment now, Jan Farský, Adolf Beznoska, Herbert Pavera, will also be prepared for the factual remark. And please, we may also return to a proper debate where I have three priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u60	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I'm a little concerned about this debate. We have a simple presentation on the table, and this within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes to give the regions an extra 4 billion. That's the consensus from this wall to this wall. [[shows from right to left]] And the opposition took the liberty of saying that it would be good to give the municipalities two billion more. Two billion dollars in a budget that has one and a quarter trillion! If you think such a fragile construction of a draft state budget can't take it, yes, vote, vote within the coalition alliance with your minister. But maybe we've all already told our mayors that we're thinking about them. The opposition is behind those two billion. If the coalition is afraid, don't vote. But it already seems a little confused and unnecessarily extended. It's simple. There's two billion in the budget, or they're not! Let's vote!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u61	I thank Mr Dolejš, but we cannot vote because we have to continue the debate. Now, Mr Jan Farský, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u62	Thank you. I would just like to say, following the Prime Minister's statement, that we pay for kindergartens in municipalities, we contribute to the operation of primary school, we repair local communication, we build pavements, we take care of public greenery, we contribute to sports associations, cultural associations, social areas - and that's where we want the money. It's not money for mayors or municipalities as some imaginary group. This is money for specific needs of citizens, which we are currently unable to fully meet and fully satisfy. And we want people to be able to live in quality, well and effectively managed communities. And these funds will help each of the ten million citizens to live better in those communities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u63	Thank you. Now Mr Beznoska also makes a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u64	Thank you for the floor. Also for a very short time. In addition to the activities listed by Mr Farský, I will add transport business etc. But the essentials. The statutory city, the Troika municipality of Mladá Boleslav, contributes 11 percent of its budget to the administration. And I'm asking why. So, ladies and gentlemen, why don't we focus on making it really fair for those communities? This is a maximum of 10 billion up to 2018. Crowns. And I'm sure we're able to do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u65	Thank you. And now the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, then Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then the Prime Minister and then the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I'd like to comment on the political context first. As Minister of Finance, I don't make political decisions, I make decisions for people, which is why I went into politics. [[Laughs in the right side of the hall.]] I don't know why you're laughing. As far as I know, there was some TOP 09 group and the starosta, there was some kind of agreement, I think we all know what it's about. If I acted politically, and today I see the preference of the ČSSD and the ANO movement before the regional elections, then logically I would not agree that we have given 4.5 billion. To repair the roads for the captains if I was political. Or I wouldn't agree with the RUD for the regions either, because according to existing preferences, probably the biggest competitors in the regional elections will be the ČSSD and the movement, I don't know if the preferences we read in the newspapers are correct, but so far it seems. So I don't see it politically. The way I see it, the roads we've had repaired are for everyone, even for the municipalities. I also live in a small village - 2.5,000 inhabitants. I understand, and I want to support the community. The irony is, I didn't hear you talking about taxes. I heard screaming here in the first half of the year that we don't collect taxes. Where are the taxes? We lost 15 billion in coalition negotiations. VAT and income taxes on natural persons. And this morning, we're down 3 billion. VAT more than last year and it goes to municipalities. We want to deal with the municipalities, we want to deal with this comprehensively, because there have been some circumstances that are disadvantageous for the municipalities. They're mainly motivational elements. There is 30 per cent tax on the income of natural persons, mainly the self-employed. We note that the percentage of people who submit returns actually increased, applied discounts on mortgages and other municipalities, and municipalities are losing the money. We want to deal with this complexly, and we're dealing with it. I support the community. I want to support everyone. Therefore, on 11 November 2015, a meeting of the working group on the RUD will take place at the Ministry of Finance. Representatives of the Association of Local Authorities, the Union of Towns and Municipalities, Members and Senators are invited. We're going to discuss proposals for a possible change in the RUD. And here is also an opportunity to debate that municipalities need additional resources and for what purpose. Yes, I'm sure it is. But the biggest paradox is that you're talking about 2 billion. Yes - 2 billion. There's not much money. But you're doing everything you can to make sure the communities don't get the money. And you know why? Because if you voted today at the third reading for e-booking sales, you would vote for 2.5 billion. CZK for municipalities because they receive VAT. And the electronic sales log is VAT, so you're doing everything against the municipalities, and here you're saying you want money for the municipalities. So vote for the EET and there's money for the municipalities, for everyone! And one delay, one month delay, we've calculated it exactly, it's 414 miles. CZK to the budget - delaying the EET if we miss it. Because if we start with 1. 8. with restaurants and 1. 11th with the hotels, so it's settled that we're gonna lose this money, and you're stalling them. If you want money for the community, and I want money for the community, vote for the EET. That's where the money is. That's by our calculations, and we're just getting started, clear money, and it's 100 miles. monthly for municipalities - VAT and EET. So you have a chance to show that we will give money to the municipalities. And I want to do it, and I want to do it comprehensively. And again, it's not politics. We didn't make any deals, and logically, I should be against the RUD when there are socialist captains sitting there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u67	I thank Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek with priority rights. The Prime Minister will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We will probably get to EET several more times, in autumn, in spring, in summer, next year in autumn. [[Glee in the hall.]] I will just react very briefly that there are probably many times more basic untruths that this is an instrument for better tax collection and that it is an instrument for equalizing the business environment. None of this is true. This Balkan supernova will not bring higher tax collections, as it did not bring in the Balkans, and, as set up, it will distort the business environment, because some instrument will be applied to someone and will not be applied to someone, which, of course, contradicts the principles of equal environment and equal regulation for all. However, as I say again, we will get to that many times. If the Minister spoke of advantages, he probably spoke about the advantages of the system suppliers, with whom he had long been agreed. He's also not going to make a tender. He probably talked about the benefits for several oligarchs, among whom he belongs. But for the Czech Republic, for municipalities, for public budgets it will only mean loss and certainly not any benefits. Now, he repeated several times that he did not decide politically and that the Minister of Finance's decision was not political. Prime Minister, please be so kind as to explain to your first Deputy Prime Minister that the Minister's decision, if it is a decision when he presents something to the Chamber of Deputies, is always political, because the Minister is a politician. Try to explain to him the difference between making decisions of narrow party interests, which he probably had in mind in his argument, and making a political decision. It's not the same thing. So try to explain to him what the decision of close party interests and political decisions are, while you're at it, try to explain to him as a lawyer what the difference is between giving an explanation and interrogation. And while you're at it, try to explain to him the difference between investment and transfers to the population, so he doesn't tell us that 40,000 for the family are investments. Please, Prime Minister, try to do some conceptual training for your first Deputy Prime Minister, because when we're having a debate here and he's using completely inappropriate concepts for things that mean something completely different, then we can't understand each other. And now for what you said, Prime Minister. I understand that what you said may be said by your finance minister with a clear conscience, because he doesn't know anything about it. But you've been working for a long time under the budgetary rules, within the budget tax determination, and when you said you were doing nothing but giving back to the regions what we took away from them, you know you're only telling half the truth, and that's still very distorted. We didn't take any absolute money from the county. We adjusted the VAT increase coefficient there, and the VAT increase was exclusively intended for pension reform. Nothing else. Since the costs of pension reform and pension accounts are exclusively borne by the state budget, not by the budgets of the regions or municipalities, the coefficient was adjusted so that in absolute numbers the municipalities and the regions would not lose anything, but that they would not receive anything more, because the higher income from the VAT increase should have been determined solely for the purposes of pension reform. It is logical, and the coefficient has been adjusted for both municipalities and regions, because neither municipalities nor regions bear any pension costs, so it is logical that now that you are making the error and canceling the second pillar without any compensation, it is quite logical that you will adjust the coefficient back. [[11.50 hours]] Nor does anyone resist this, but we do not understand why in this logic you only adjust the coefficient back to regions and not municipalities, because precisely in connection with the increase in VAT, nothing happened except that for municipalities and regions the coefficients were adjusted so that they did not lose anything, but they didn't earn anything. And now you're back with the abolition of the second pillar of braces just by the edges, but you leave it with the municipalities! So this is an absurd argument, Prime Minister, and you are aware of it, because if it is true that you are simply returning to the regions what you have taken away from them, you must say: and we do not want to return it to the municipalities, because they have had the exact same operation, or you have to say: we have not taken anything from anybody because only the coefficient has been adjusted and no one has lost anything, and now we just want to add to the regions, because we have our captains there and we have to add to the regional elections, and we do not want to add to the municipalities. One or the other! But you can't buy newspapers for ten crowns and want to keep the ten crowns and take the paper. I can't. You just can't have pie and eat. Either you're right in point A, then you have to say that B, or you're wrong in point A, and then you're wrong in point B. Perhaps I was clear enough. And I am so considerate that I am not even saying that if what you are saying is that you are simply returning to the regions what we have taken away from them, so that you should return it not only to the municipalities, because at the same time, the same operation took place there for the same reason, but logically you should return VAT rates back to the original level, because they were raised exclusively and only in connection with the second pillar, which you are canceling now. The logic of your argument, with all due respect, tears the brain out of your head. If you want to go back to point zero because you're canceling the second pillar, then put it all back to point zero - both tax rates and coefficients for regions and coefficients for municipalities. Otherwise, you're deceiving and looting! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u69	This was the chairman of the TOP 09 Club with priority rights Miroslav Kalousek. Now with the right to speak properly, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u70	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I must say that this debate, and especially when I listened to Mr Kalousek's last speech, reminded me of the discussions we had relatively shortly after the elections. We met relatively shortly after the elections with the unions representing public sector employees, and we discussed how public sector salaries would continue to develop. And they came especially representatives of firefighters and policemen and said: look, the last right-wing government reduced our tariff salaries by 10 percent and we would like you to pay back our tariff salaries, and suggesting that we increase our tariff rates for police officers and firefighters by 10 percent in 2015. We explained to them that we would like to help them, that we would like to correct the injustice that happened when ODS and TOP 09, the firefighters, took 10 percent of the salary, but we said: We can't solve everything at once, we can't solve everything in one state budget. We simply have the responsibility to meet certain budgetary parameters, the budget is not inflatable, the deficit is not inflatable, and we only have the taxes we collect. We acted, and it was not easy at all, certainly a number of fellow ministers who were there will confirm to me that this was not an easy negotiation, but finally we agreed and we said to ourselves: We will do this in a few steps. We're just gonna fix what happened, how people who work for the state have reduced their salaries, we're gonna fix it in a few years, and in my opinion, we made a reasonable agreement. The move taken towards the regions and municipalities was at the moment when the right-wing government decided to increase value added tax and decided to collect all the revenue from the increase in the state budget. As the right-wing government said, we're going to finance the second pillar. The fact that the second pillar is being abolished today is not the result of some ideological capriciousness of the new government coalition, it is simply the result of realistic reflection on how the second pillar turned out. The second pillar just didn't work out. He was parametrically set so that he couldn't function, couldn't function, and wouldn't function. That's the problem with the second pillar we're meeting today. After all, the authors of the pension reform themselves set a rule that says that if the fund has less than 50,000 clients, the CNB can decide to merge it with another fund. When we look at the fact that there are some 80-90,000 clients in the whole system today, it's actually not enough for two funds to complete the rule that the reformers themselves put into it. At a time when funds were too small, they logically assumed and correctly assumed that they would be ineffective and that there would be no sense in maintaining them so weak and small. So the second pillar failed, it was set wrong. Our government has decided to cancel it. After all, we were given a strong mandate from the voters, too, because we told the voters honestly before the elections. We said, "If you vote for us, we will cancel the second pillar, and we will do what we promised the voters and what we received the votes from them." So in this respect, we are proceeding in accordance with the program we had. I know that very often the opposition is proposing proposals that have budgetary implications, and frankly, the opposition is rarely concerned about where its proposals are to be found. I have seen a number of ODS proposals to cancel various taxes this year. The ODS is putting forward proposals to abolish taxes and does not worry about what will happen with the revenue outage and how it will be paid - whether it will have to be in debt or whether it will have to cut some expenses that are always intended for some specific objectives, so it would always damage some public services. The opposition simply has no responsibility for the budget. We will now intervene in the budget next year and the following year by the law we approve. The opposition will not vote for the budget, and the moment the government fails to comply with its parameters, the opposition will criticize us. Just by having responsibility for the budget, we also need to take a responsible approach to individual amendments, and we need to count everything much more carefully than the opposition counts, because the government is here to be responsible for complying with the parameters of the state budget, that it will comply with the parameters of the budgetary perspective. As the Minister of Finance mentioned here, and we met recently at a government meeting with the Bureau of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and agreed to continue the debate at the Ministry of Finance in a special group in which municipalities and cities will have their representatives and discuss further changes in the budgetary determination of taxes. This is not a matter that we would defend, but it must be in line with the funds available to us within the budget. Of course, I know what public services municipalities finance. I myself sat in the council of Slavkov near Brno, which has 6,000 inhabitants, and I know what the city had to finance from its budget, I know what the region contributed to, what the state contributed to. And I think that we all know, as we are here, that a large part of public services are financed from several sources, that there is multi-source funding, that they contribute municipalities, they get some subsidies from the region, sometimes they get subsidies from the state budget. It is very difficult to say at the moment: these public services are taken care of exclusively by the regions and these are taken care of exclusively by the municipalities. It's a common task very often. I wanted to draw attention to this debate, which, in my view, was very abstract, to the fact that if the government now wants to push back VAT money to regional budgets, we are doing this to help finance specific public services that will go to citizens. Citizens will benefit from them in a very specific way, simply from the fact that the regions will be able to finance some of the public services, and from them the municipalities will also benefit. I know that a number of municipalities also establish homes for seniors, but they receive subsidies from the state budget. The regions subsidize the transport service, which helps municipalities. The county's subsidizing the rescue service, I've already talked about it here. When it comes to ambulances, and few people know that when paramedics work in the regions, only about half of the money they get from health insurance companies, half of them have to pay the county out of their budget to make a quick rescue in the region work. [[12.00 hours]] The same applies to a number of other areas, such as secondary education. So these are concrete funds that will guarantee the good functioning of public services, and I would very much like us to end up with a debate where we are building communities and regions against each other, where we are putting the government and municipalities against each other. This is certainly not the aim of government policy to harm municipalities, it is not the government's aim to damage the regions, but we will proceed gradually. We will address the problems you have left for us here, honourable Members and Members of the ODS and the TOP 09. We are dealing with your problems and we will be able to deal with your problems gradually so that we can manage the budgetary frameworks and reduce the state budget deficit. That is why we will be voting in the Chamber of Deputies today if we get to the vote, if not today, sometime next time, in favour of the government proposal. I think you can hardly blame the government coalition for voting in favour of government proposals. The opposition has the right to submit its amendments, it has the full right to persuade government MPs, but in the end it has to decide the mandate of the electorate and it has to decide the majority of the government as it is in the functioning of every standard democratic society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u71	Thank you. Two, three factual points. The real ones take precedence, that is, first, President Stanjura, then Vice-President Filip with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u72	Then maybe I'll surprise the Prime Minister. We have also announced that we will vote in favour of this government proposal. There's no quarrel. This is a well-known thing, nothing surprising, and that is what we said in the committees when it was discussed. But, Prime Minister, I'm going back to my first point of fact, he actually said - I can't find two hundred and fifty billion for the community in one trillion. I can't, because I would jeopardize the budget that we have proposed and for which the opposition, rightly said, will not vote. I'm sure we're in agreement. So I promise the Prime Minister that he can easily vote in favour of two billion, that we will bring in several alternative proposals on how to exchange expenditure, because we think that increasing the community's share is and should be a priority. And I believe we'll find most of it. I don't want to bring attention somewhere else, to cancel the second pillar, to the EET, to the budget, and I don't know what the Prime Minister here mentioned. But he himself admitted that municipalities have high spending on how they provide services for their citizens. He's forgotten about local communications, pavements, public transport, and we could beat ourselves here, who remembers the larger range of expenses that municipalities have. By the way, for example, many municipalities subsidize important cultural facilities, theatres, orchestras and such things. But if he says it's not a priority for his government, we understand. We merely thought that, because of the fact that there are many people sitting in this Chamber of Deputies who have experience with municipal policy, there is nothing dramatic about returning to the original level even in three steps. That is why we, as citizens' democrats, have proposed two further steps, 2007 to 2018. We didn't design it jumping, like it's at the edges at once. So it goes for one, it's for fourteen regions, and for those 6 245 municipalities it's not possible, but the sum proposed is smaller than in the case of regions. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u73	Thank you. One more factual one, Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u74	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I understand that we must not go to EET today, so we will talk about something else that is generally known. But I have to reject some of the words. It sounds grand when it is said that the VAT change goes to retirement reform for the second pillar. I'm not going to repeat what the second pillar was, but I'm going to translate into a humanly understandable language. The point was that a tunnel was to be taken out of the state budget into uninsured funds that no one was providing. Some old man gets some money sometimes. People got it, they didn't log in, and it's clear that in this regard - please leave those fancy words alone, tell them the truth that you wanted to make a tunnel for the state budget! Everyone understands that. You wanted to make it, you failed. People didn't believe you, so don't do it again!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u75	Now there are two priority rights. The first is the rapporteur and then President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, my colleague, there's been a lot of talk about what I've had here. I will still respond to my colleague Stanjura through the President. The minister said that he would find the two billion, but it would be difficult to find them in the thousands of billions, but that he wanted to do it conceptually, and that he wanted to include it (?) Somewhere other than today's press. I'm responding to my colleague Vilímca. Yes, I gave a neutral position on the Committee on Budgets as rapporteur. Yet, by a large majority, these amendments have not been passed by the Committee on Budgets. I'd like to say my reason. I absolutely have no doubt that communities need money. I was also mayor, I was vice mayor for one period. And the municipalities can handle the money if it's capable of running the community and not spending money on the bill, which may be a pretty common thing, and it's a shame. However, I do not question the great need for money for municipalities. But on the other hand, I know that communities are going to get their money. And perhaps for more money, if effective measures are actually introduced in this country, which are common throughout Europe and which are increasingly mentioned. And that's just the EET, but that's already been mentioned here. You know what a big discussion was about the audit report. Criticism has always been from the true spectrum of opposition, and you still disparage it. This is an instrument which, in turn, cannot be denied by Mr Kalousek, can significantly help to collect VAT. And that's the money for the communities. And last but not least, your criticism of our... Let's say it's an increase in civil servants' salaries. If I pulled a financial report out of it - you say money went up in the Treasury, new people want to get married there. But that's just to get the IRS renovated. To make states such that there is no condition that is today, that in Prague there is one control for one company in 150 years. Well, that's undersized. And that pay raises? That's perfectly normal. The Prime Minister said that it was a setup or something, that tariff salaries had decreased in the past period. She's been such a long time. There was a crisis, there was a lot of unemployment, there were no job offers. The private sector also reduced money, so there was basically no need for any increase. But at the moment, when there are 100,000 demands for work, when private firms are increasing wages sharply, and you're gonna criticize us for adding to the state administration? I know you'd like it if all of us at least a little quality people just left the financial authorities for the private sector and said, "Well, you guys are doing it wrong. They leave you people, they don't collect taxes. Yes, because these people would have gone for money. That makes perfect sense. The economy is growing. We don't have people in the government, and I'm gonna take teachers, doctors, cops, soldiers, but we don't have officials in an aquarium where they come across glass and they can't go anywhere else. After all, the state and civil servants are part of the national economy. And if money is added somewhere, don't criticize things that should just be pro-growth and they should add money to the municipalities in the end. But I repeat again, I have no problem adding to the municipalities. It must be really systemically and properly done. And the last word I'd like to say. Again, I don't know who it was from the right spectrum, he said: we want a fair distribution between the regions and the municipalities. I don't think so. We're here, so let's say the government decided to return or give some percentages to the regions, and it's going to add up plus minus 3.5 billion crowns. If that were true, what you are saying would be an amendment in that sense. Yes, today you want to add 3.5 billion, let's give half the municipalities out of the 3.5 billion and a half to the regions. In 2016 or 2017, give something to the regions and municipalities. This amendment, which if it were on your part, might be in line with this: we want to distribute relatively to municipalities and regions. But you don't have the courage to say: don't give it to the regions, give it to the municipalities. You just want to raise the municipalities. So it's not fair distribution. That, too, would be possible, Mr Stanjur, through the President, to take steps and step by step. But he's not here. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u77	Thank you. Prime Minister Kalousek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u78	Thank you, it was quite nice, Mr rapporteur through the President, because it was long. If there has been a reminder that perhaps we have been having this discussion for a long time in order to delay the vote or debate on the electronic record of sales, then please note from the discussion that this discussion was very balanced between the representatives of the coalition and the representatives of the opposition. And if I had to respond in the press atrium a moment ago to the criticisms of the Prime Minister that he probably won't make it to the EET today because of the obstruction of the opposition, I would like to point out that, above all, the obstructions were committed without defending them, for God's sake, especially the lords of Sobotka and Babiš. Please, do the math for the minutes when you're back to yelling about how long it's been here. Prime Minister, you have spoken several times again as if we did not want to modify the RUD in favour of the regions and as if the public services that citizens consume were provided only by the regions and municipalities. We want to support your proposal and repeat it again, we want it to be absolutely fair, as the coefficient has been corrected by the regions, so because it has been adjusted on the same day for the regions and for the municipalities, on the same day in connection with VAT, so that on the same day it goes back for the regions and for the municipalities, and from this point of view even the ODS proposal is slightly discriminatory against - I mean good - towards the municipalities or considerate of the state budget, because on the same day we correct it back to the regions, but towards municipalities it proposes to spread it out of consideration towards the state budget into two steps. And just to do it for one person, not to do it for another is not fair because it was the same day because it was at the same time because it was within the same operation for the same reason and because, like a whole range of public services, the regions provide and certainly need public resources for them, so municipalities also provide a whole range of public services in the field of social services, in the field of health services, in the area of infrastructure. Perhaps, given the way and potential of your government, we should not forget one public service provided exclusively by municipalities, and this is a public service where responsibility comes from the Funeral Act. There's just a whole range of services that these communities just provide for citizens and need resources for them no less than those regions. You said it reminds you of the beginning of your post-election mandate... [[The speaker was silent because of the noise in the hall.]] I'll wait, I've got time... You said this reminds you of the beginning of your mandate after the election, when you negotiated with trade unions in the state administration an increase in salaries. I may surprise you, but at a time when the economy is simply growing, I take it for granted that the workers have started to add again. No one thought we wanted to freeze it for eternity. But somehow you forgot to mention that in addition to the addition of employees, you were able to increase the number of civil servants by 21,000 in two years. Was that also part of your trade union agreements? That, in addition to the existing staff of 21,000 with personnel costs, you will increase the state's personnel costs by almost 20 billion? Was that really necessary? You guys always mix it up, that we don't care about raising salaries. No, that doesn't bother us so much, it bothers us completely unabated, the overwhelming increase in the number of civil servants. And you always say firemen, cops, teachers. But please look at the individual chapters. Look at the Ministry of Finance chapter. The Minister of Finance wants to accept 638 new officials next year. 638 in one chapter with a staffing intensity of 1.1 billion. They won't be teachers, they won't be firemen, they won't be policemen, they won't be soldiers. It will simply be Babišův's officials who are coming there to make an explicit effort to catch up on the reduction in efficiency that the Minister, with the current number of employees, is not capable of. Since he is not able to do his job with the current number of employees, so instead of the Ministry starting to manage it better, he will hire 638 new officials. And it's going to cost 1.1 billion. CZK, which is about half the amount you're refusing to give to the municipalities now. It's just the Treasury! And now I could go this chapter by chapter, and we'll find people everywhere who aren't teachers, they're not firemen. But it's gonna be the new civil servants who get the decent salaries that I have nothing against. But 21,000 new civil servants in two years are naughty, colleagues. No government has ever done that here. You're the only one doing this! So I'm just always able to tell myself the truth from both sides.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u79	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, that was typical manipulation, as Mr. Kalousek can do. That's what an absolute genius is in. Yes, 628 people, 400 of which are for EET, 300 Financial Administration, 100 Customs Administration. And what's with the fact handling? Well, the 628 people are going to cost 280 miles. plus 100 miles. The accessories and he calculates the 3% of all the 15,000, so then it goes to the billion. So I would ask that we really tell the truth. The Treasury Resort has 25 grand. staff. We are really hiring people to finally make the Financial Administration work, to finally start collecting taxes, so that Prague is no longer a tax haven. So I'd really like the facts. 628 people, 25 grand, I think that's really the minimum we need to strengthen these files so that we can finally collect the taxes. That one billion is 500 miles. raise, 3 plus 2, that's actually for everyone. And that strengthening is just the 280 plus 100. Let's really try to tell the truth, not manipulate it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u81	Yes. Priority law - President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u82	Thank you. I have no choice but to say that the Deputy Prime Minister, and he has every right to do so, is continuing to self-obstruct. Thank you for his effective help in trying to make sure that the Balkan supernova does not really happen today. You guys are good co-workers, co-workers. Thank you very much. Minister, yes. 400 of the 628 new officials you need to recruit, so you're really counting 400 on that Balkan supernova, which, of course, in itself, is already attacking the calculation of the costs you have when we get to the material, so in itself, it's attacking the calculation of the costs of the Balkan supervine at the level of personnel costs. But most of all, what do you accept these people for if it's not and most likely not? Is that what you do in your companies that you haven't bought the line yet, but have you already hired hundreds of people to serve it? Is this really how you want to work? [[12.20 hours]] You don't stand a chance of making electronic sales records next year. You don't stand a chance even if we don't do what we promised, like we're gonna do it. But you want next year, even though you know it won't be, you want 400 new officials on electronic sales records, as you claim. What are they gonna do there? You can tell me what's going on there - right now, you can tell me what 400 people are going to do there that you're saying you're taking them on electronic sales log when we both know that electronic sales log isn't gonna work next year! What are the 400 people doing there, Minister? Four hundred people are several hundred million. What do you want a few hundred million for? Where does it end up, who are you gonna buy with it again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u83	There are no other preferential applications. So let's get back to proper applications. Mr Zahradník, then Mr Farský, will appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to put some peace into our discussion by looking into the past. This year it has been 15 years since the law created self-governing regions, and at the beginning of November we will commemorate the 15th anniversary of the first regional elections. The regions were created at the time, councils were formed, captains were elected, and the topic of shared taxes was always an important topic in dealing with the government. No one denies that the regions form an important component of our self-governing democracy at regional level and that the regions have an inalienable share of shared taxes, in doing so, to participate in tax collection from our citizens. And regional governments, of course, manage money wisely and I must say, very responsibly. The Prime Minister mentioned some items, some activities that the regions provide - roads, of course ambulances, secondary education. He also mentioned hospitals. Here I have to remind you, in one case, he's wrong. In southern Bohemia hospitals manage profits as stock companies. They are able to invest the profits and the region does not have to contribute any money to their operation. Negotiations on the share of shared taxes have always been one of the most important points in the meeting of the Regional Association Council with the government, and the current Prime Minister, as Minister of Finance, certainly participated in these negotiations. At that time, Lords Evžen Tošenovskýý and František Dohnal acted for the association. And the struggle, the struggle was very hard, but it was always led in gentlemen's terms, considering that the regions are not the only component of the territorial self-government, that historically far older and at that time more deserving components were municipalities. And then the municipalities shared about 21 percent, 22 percent of shared taxes, 11 percent, 12 percent, and 13 percent respectively. There has always been a good deal between the Regional Association and the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I must say that, like my colleagues, I will support the proposal put forward by the government to increase their share in the RUD so that the regions can cope with this situation. At present, we have a situation that happens from time to time in political competition. At the moment, there are most, respectively, all of the CNSSD officials, or most of them, ČSSD also has a significant share in regional self-government, as well as a significant share in the administration of the Czech Republic. We had a different situation back then. At that time, the regions were right-wing, and at the beginning of the millennium, the government was left-wing. That's where the clash was a little different. I understand and I can imagine how important this injection can be to regional authorities in the next election year and how much the Socialist authorities will be boast the results they will be able to implement for this money at the beginning of the year. And so be it for them, I guess that's the thing about the world. Of course, the municipalities are here too, and I think the municipalities are expecting a whole series of expenses. Again, there have been mention of those that municipalities always do. But now, hopefully, we'll finally get the start of the programming period. We've had two years, we've missed them, two years of programming, and nothing's really going on. The territorial dimension of these programmes is dual in nature. For example, southern Bohemia does not belong to regions where money would be distributed in the form of ITI integrated technical investments, the distribution of European money will be carried out there using an integrated development plan where municipalities and cities will play their inalienable role. There the centre of gravity will rest on the municipalities. There is a similar situation, I think, in the Liberec Region, in the Zlín Region. There, municipalities will have to make a significant contribution to their budgets, and if they want to submit meaningful, good, promising projects to European funds, they will have to have money for co-financing. This is one thing where I see the purpose of contributing to the municipalities from shared taxes, as both Mr Vilímec and Mrs Kovářová's proposal puts it. In addition, however, the municipalities have other expenditures which citizens will also monitor and which are not, unfortunately, on the list of activities that the European Union will support. Such activities require the maintenance of public spaces, the maintenance of monuments, and, last but not least, the restoration of public lighting, which is a significant part of the activities for which the municipal authorities are responsible, the promotion of environmental public transport. The municipalities will need money for all this. From time to time, I meet here with the fact that in regular friendly conversations with colleagues, for example, from the government coalition I hear such words as the proposal is good, interesting, beneficial, it would be possible to think about it. But then when they vote, they are clenched by the iron hand of party discipline, and they vote according to their bosses, depending on what their clubs tell them to do. So I experienced it a little bit in the case of the Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava or also in the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, where colleagues also said well, the proposals put forward by colleagues are good, but then they voted against and supported the proposal that is making huge problems for us today. We'll see what it all brings. And here I would like to turn to my colleagues, at this point in time when this is about money for the municipalities, and each of us lives in a community, to try to break out of the shell of party discipline and vote according to their conviction and the proposal that my colleagues put forward here in today's vote, and we have a third reading, to support. My friends, please support Mr Vilímec and Mrs Kovářová's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u85	Thank you. Mr. Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u86	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everything has been said and so I will just add. I would like to ask for the support of Mrs Kovářová's amendment as well as of Mr Vilímec's amendment, because if this is not just a political act and the transfer of funds to the regions before the regional elections, but it is a really fair and non-discriminatory law, then the municipalities clearly belong there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u87	Thank you, and please, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u88	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, my first contribution was brief and should draw attention to senseless discrimination against municipalities, nothing more, nothing less. Then, of course, on the part of Minister Babiš in particular, I heard so much innovative information that I simply and well have to respond. Dear Minister, allow me, therefore, to try to teach you a lesson. In fact, the third reading of this proposal is high time. Thus, it is not convincing for you that municipalities and cities are generally better economic operators with public funds than the State, nor that municipalities and cities not only deal with public funds effectively, but even save them, for example, to co-finance projects from European money, or that the government proposal for municipalities and cities is grossly unfair, because, unlike them, it returns the regions for the abolition of the second pillar of pension reform; These are all the arguments raised in the previous hearing. So I'm going to try to add something to the top, something you might understand. The exit is simple. When an entity, state, municipality or region carries out more agendas, it should also have more resources at its disposal. When it has more agendas, but fewer resources, there is a problem. And that's exactly what's happened to us in the last few years. Do you know, Minister, how many responsibilities have been imposed on municipalities in just the last ten years? You know that? I don't think so. But I know exactly. A lot, a lot. [[Laughter from the left side of the courtroom, restlessness, noise.]] And every mayor in a small village and a large village knows this very well. But maybe a little better on the little one, 'cause he's the mayor--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u89	Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you to remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u90	Thank you, too. But perhaps a little better in that small village, because the mayor is often the one who has to perform these duties. As far as these obligations are concerned, consider that 124 laws have been adopted only during this parliamentary term. It is no wonder that this summer organisations such as the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities and the Rural Recovery Association have written a statement that responds to this year's amendment to the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets. In a statement entitled Suffocating us the administration writes: Hand in hand with each new government's statement that it will reduce the bureaucratic burden, the amendment of the law brings a clearly higher administrative burden both to the providers and, above all, to the recipients of subsidies. The amendment introduces an obligation for local authorities to grant subsidies solely on the basis of an application for a grant with a number of prescribed requirements through a public contract and subsequent billing. It also introduces additional obligations which increase the administrative burden, such as the drawing up of subsidy programmes, the publication of projects within a longer period than the normal time limit, the drawing up of public contracts for each, albeit marginal subsidy, the billing of the subsidy without distinction, the examination of decisions imposing the levy and periodic penalty payments for infringements of budgetary discipline and, in particular, the drawing up of a notice of failure to comply with the application, including a justification which may be reviewed by the Administrative Court. Municipalities and cities support non-state, non-profit and interest organizations with a range of small subsidies between CZK 500 and CZK 5,000. The economic evaluation of newly implemented administrative actions in financial terms often outweighs the value of the subsidy granted to the applicant, and so on and so on. I think the example was pretty impressive, so I don't have to add more. The conclusion is simple. Indeed, there is an increase in responsibilities for the citizens and cities, and this has an economic context. Yes, the government was added from tax revenue between 2007 and 2012. It was. But certainly not enough to cover the performance of all the tasks that the state of the community literally covered year after year. Especially not the tasks that self-government would carry out for its citizens. So that is the first argument I would like to draw attention to. The state wants a lot from municipalities and cities, and it gives them little for it. However, the mayors are still struggling with this for a while, as if he were saying the state, or Minister Babiš - whom I approached and he unfortunately left - looking at neglected municipal property with a historically large internal debt, for which the current and unruly representatives of the authorities in the vast majority are not really responsible. The second argument is closely linked to this first argument. The exercise of the delegation is not fully paid by the State to municipalities and cities, it is only a contribution. The municipalities and cities therefore spend hundreds of millions, or billions of crowns annually on the exercise of the delegated powers. And this number, of course, is growing over time, unlike this post. Perhaps small increases should not be spoken of in a decent society. And third, last argument. This government applies to the principle of subsidiarity, but only when it suits it. At national level, the principle of subsidiarity seems to end beyond the borders of the regions. You know, Minister, I've come to the conclusion that you personally don't care that this is not a subject for you. There is no better evidence than the fact that an expert working group at the Ministry of Finance for the budgetary determination of taxes, whose establishment you promised with great glory after meeting with the chairman of the SMO, has not yet met. Today you said he was meeting on November 11th. I don't know why you're so late. The only thing that is pouring some hope into my life is that the amendment for which I am digging also supported members of the ANO movement in the Committee on Public Administration, Members who remember the electoral programme for which they ran. It says: The provision of local development should be the domain of municipalities that have sufficient resources to achieve it. Therefore, YES rejects the concept of subsidy funding for municipalities and proposes strengthening the budgetary determination of the tax for municipalities and ensuring local development. I thank these colleagues, and I believe that courage has not left them. Perhaps the same is true for other colleagues and colleagues from the coalition ranks who announced support for the amendments at second reading. So I am asking for this support once again, and I believe that there will be not enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u91	Thank you. Before I give the floor to President Stanjur, two apologies. The Minister of Defence apologizes from 12.15 pm to the end of the meeting and Mr. Vojtěch Adam from 12.30 pm. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u92	Thank you for the floor. The last attempt to convince government MPs, above all, to support our communities and cities. I will tell you a few numbers and draw from the material of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic. It's on the website, it's open to me, it's been published on 28 April this year, and it's called Indebted Territorial Budget in 2014. There are statistics from 2003 to 2014, which is a long enough period for us to see how municipalities and regions are managed in whole. And then we can compare it to how it managed to stand for this whole period of time. And if we take the state, it's changed over that time, I wouldn't count how many since 2003, so I would estimate one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight governments, if I say right. Thus, on the last day of last year, the total debt is 6 245 municipalities less than 89 billion. With the decrease of 3 billion year on year. since 2013. Whoever has ever examined RUD and the debt of municipalities in more detail knows that our four largest cities are a key component of this debt. The four largest cities, i.e. Prague, Brno, Ostrava and Pilsen have a total debt of 43.6 billion at the end of December last year. They're also the biggest cities with the highest income. This means, for all the others, for those 6 245 municipalities, the accumulated debt for the functioning of self-government has remained since 1993, which means in 22, 51 billion years. And when I look at the draft state budget and read only the results of the state's management since 2012, it was 101 billion in a single year 2012, which is twice as much as all municipalities in 22 years. In 2013 81 billion, last year it was 78 billion, this year it is planned 100, I expect the result to be somewhere around 70 billion. And with great fame, you decided here two days ago that the budget deficit for 2016 would be 70 billion. Which is 20 billion. more than the management of all municipalities except for the four largest cities in 22 years. And if I add the four largest cities, it's 70 billion. only in 2016, and you had a surge of complimentary words here, how you reduce deficit and how you work well, so it's only a difference of 20 billion. Twenty billion difference for 22 years of operation of all municipalities and cities and only by 20 billion. smaller in one single year in the period of economic growth. And you yourself, as government politicians and government MPs, are praising yourself, as you well proposed and as the deficit decreases. Well, compare it with each other. In addition, one basic thing applies. The municipalities, cities and regions pay their debts in contrast to the state. The Czech Republic has been constantly increasing the deficit since it came into being. We're talking about whether we're going to pay 70, 60, 50, 48 billion in interest. The less, the better, but on the principal, not a penny went to the principal. And I willfully say for the whole period of the Czech Republic. I am not referring to the last two years of this government's operation. And when we say that the government and we, as Parliament, are transferring more and more responsibilities to municipalities and cities, even to the edge, to be fair, and yet we are not adding money to them, it is true. I will try to illustrate this on one case and ask either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance to quantify the reach of the last executive decision of the government. The government has decided to increase the tariff components of public wages as of 1 November. This undoubtedly affects all city officials, municipalities and regions. The mayors and the chieftains have two options. They have to raise tariffs and then either maintain the total wage volume, which means that some employees will have to reduce those ingredients that are not eligible, whether it is a personal evaluation or remuneration. Which is definitely not popular, and why would those mayors do that? Unless it's just the pressure of the state. Or by 3 percent of the tariff wages, they will raise the total wage volume. On top of that, 34 percent of the contributions. So it's actually not 3 %, but 3 % plus another 34 percent, which is about 4 percent of total wage costs. And that's in a 60 grand town like Opava somewhere between 5 and 8 miles, I don't know exactly what it is. That's not small money. So I would like to ask you when the government quantified or decided whether to quantify the impacts on city, municipal and regional budgets because of this executive decision. And how much is it in the sum? Because these are real expenses that have to be spent this month, virtually. in payment for the month of November, i.e. Sometime in December, the cities have to pay and they will pay. Or does the government propose to the mayors and captains to lower their people's salaries? I don't think so. So it is automatically assumed that around 4 percent will increase the salary volume. And I want to know how much it is. The Prime Minister says they're counting a lot better than the opposition. They have a lot more equipment than we do. I believe him, so I'm gonna ask him for the number. How much of this executive decision per year, when we say 4 per cent, is correct, to say 4 per cent of the tariff salaries, so that we don't tell each other that these aren't total salaries, I know how much impact this decision has on the municipalities. And then let's compare it to what we're proposing. We've already agreed with the Prime Minister, oddly enough, that we can't raise, but we're returning what was. Even in three steps. And the quantification is relatively accurate, our parliamentary estimates were almost in line with the Ministry of Finance's estimates, which in this negative opinion calculated estimates approximately as much as we do. And there's no reason for us to argue over $100 million, we're taking the numbers, as the Treasury has calculated. What Mr Vilímec's amendments would mean exactly. It's like it's more accurate than ours. And it's logical. We don't have the apparatus, we don't see every month exactly how much tax collection and how much of it is shared taxes. Because it's not just VAT, it's also other shared taxes, and it's not entirely trivial. But basically, we agreed. We said 3.5 billion, I think it's 3.7 or 3.6. We estimated about six billion, a little over six billion. Other in 2018. And first of all, I want to say, but I really strongly reject that a detailed substantive debate on such a key law for all representatives, mayors and vice-mayors is obstruction. No, it's not! We didn't propose a meeting program. If the RUD started at nine, we'd already had him. That's right! That's right. That means when you say it doesn't come to EET, well, if we start EET, we're at EET and we're not in RUD. Don't complain about yourself. You decide which points we will discuss. But when an important point, and we consider it important, don't be surprised that we're trying to get support. And we tried really seriously that it wasn't a political scream so it had a chance, so we didn't change the parameters of the government proposal. Some colleagues say, and it is rational, we could spread compensation to regions and municipalities both at the age of three. Yes, we could have. Maybe if we could do it two months ago, before the second reading, we wouldn't mind. We can't do it today. But in order to increase our chances, think of this as our normal legitimate political consideration for our proposals, we did not want to break the government proposal. Because it is perfectly logical, even if we do not like it, but it is absolutely politically logical that government Members support the government's proposal. And I don't know if we'd have a better chance of helping municipalities if we were actually changing the government proposal. So we've kept him, we're ready for him, and we're going to vote for him. And besides, we've given other things. But they really aren't dramatic numbers. Yes, if we were to propose 23.58 from 1 January 2016, that's 10 billion. and that's a pretty significant hit. By being three years old, everyone can prepare for it. We've been through one year since the municipal elections. If today we are able to adopt a law that will enable our colleagues from any political party who have a four-year term, they will have four years to fulfill what they have promised and what they have succeeded with, so they can plan the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 and have a better chance, regardless of which entity they have been running for, to implement their electoral promises and programmes that they approve of city councils or councils. If we don't give them the money, they're gonna do it, too, but they're gonna do less than if we could do it with the money. I have promised in a factual note that we are ready for the second reading of the draft State Budget Act to provide an alternative where the government could find two billion. [[12.50 hours]] There's nothing we can do about the parameters. Revenue, expenditure, deficit is given, but we can certainly move within chapters, i.e. We can certainly increase the share of shared taxes plus 2 billion. On the contrary, if we wanted to build and block this law and not be approved by the end of this year, and we could certainly do that if we wanted to, the government would save, because the planned increase for those regions is higher. So let's not say that this is going to blow up the budget, because it's not in the legislation, because even the revenue for the regions isn't yet in the legislation. The budget is counting on it, and I think the government can handle that amount. And I say we can bring in a few alternative proposals so it's not just one that the government can choose where to save the 2 billion. I am also trying to monitor the negotiations and the upper chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And let's think about the travel agency debate. A year, 12 months, in all three readings, we warned the Minister and the entire government coalition that what is being proposed was wrong, that it would endanger travel agencies. It didn't help. With our heads against the wall, we're not going to give the opposition the truth. And I am glad, unfortunately, it is delaying the legislative process, and I am glad that yesterday the Upper House returned the bill to us with the amendment that we, as citizens' democrats, have proposed, defended here, and you have rejected it by vote. And I've already heard the Secretary's statement that it's a good thing that the Ministry agrees with that. So let us not make the same mistake and the same delay with regard to the budgetary determination of taxes. I ran a run-through this morning with a debate from the upper chamber on the contract register. A colleague, Mr Farský, was experiencing it all online. I must say that our fellow senators stood up for these communities much more than we did. I am, of course, satisfied that the House supported our amendment to remove small municipalities from this, but I recommend to all those who believe that the only truth is the Reconstruction of the State to read the appearances of those senators who belong to the government parties in particular. I'm not talking about opposition now. Those who belong to the government parties, read what colleagues here, a few hundred metres from here, yesterday and to our address, as well as to the address of the Chamber of Deputies as a whole, have often chosen very sharp words for what we have actually prepared, what we have done and how irresponsible we are. Finally, I do not know whether this supplementary or accompanying resolution has passed, I have not been able to trace it, because there was also a rather strong accompanying resolution on the bill that the Senate, unlike the Chamber of Deputies, is fully aware of the risks this bill brings. There is still enough time to analyse the amendments in detail when the law comes back. However, the debate was similar and I am convinced that there is a strong lobby in the upper chamber, if I may call it that, the lobby has not only a negative breath, but also a positive one, there is a strong lobby of municipal policy needs for cities and municipalities, and if we do not want to delay it unnecessarily, I recommend that not only the government proposal be approved today, i.e. call, let me use the Prime Minister's rhetoric, not to correct me, match the proportion for the regions, but also our two proposals, which in three steps, i.e. in three years, equalizing the share of budgetary tax determinations for municipalities and cities. We really consider it a key law today, a key issue. And maybe it's also a good thing that it came together so much that we're actually going to vote in one day on the budgetary determination of taxes and the cancellation of the second pillar. I'm not going back to the debate, but it's a coincidence, but it's a good thing, that is. It's not a theory when someone says it's canceled, it doesn't cancel. We've got it in front of us, and I think we're gonna make it to the Senate today, and it's gonna go hand in hand with the interference of the second pillar and the equal share of the regions, I'm sure. And I believe that you will consider and support our proposals, and it will also be an equal share of shared taxes. And I note, in three steps, no revolutionary, no leap for cities and municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u93	Thank you. I do not have any more applications for the debate, so I am ending the debate. I will ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. rapporteur. Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u94	Thank you, Mr President, for a very, very short time. My colleague Stanjura and I sighed. He's right that if we made the proposal that I suggested here in time to make it half-and-half by now, we would really seriously consider supporting him, however, we are in the state in which we are. I really think that these municipalities need to be accommodated, helping them both with better tax collection, but also perhaps or quite possibly by settling the ratio of budgetary determination. I think it's ideal to leave it in the November debate at the Ministry of Finance and then prepare it in peace. Basically, it is 2017 in these amendments, and as I am listening to it here, the will will be for us to go back to that next year and, if necessary, take such a step. I'm sure we're gonna want a lot of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u95	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister if he's interested in the final word. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u96	Thank you, Mr President. We really see the needs of municipalities, and I think that we are raising substantially more taxes, and it is already 3 billion more, so we are trying to help the municipalities. And, of course, I made it clear about the EET that it would be a positive impact, unfortunately, the opposition does not hear it, and we clearly agreed to set up a working group, we will negotiate on 11 November, and we certainly want to work with the municipalities, and we want to improve the system, especially the motivational elements, so that the municipalities benefit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u97	There. Before we vote, there are two requests for priority rights. President Stanjura and then Vice-President Laudat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u98	Just to explain. The Prime Minister said to make it very clear. There are two different things: the total amount of money that the state will collect, but we can argue about that whether it grows well or little. That's one thing we're not discussing today. And the second thing, and that's what we're discussing is how the package is going to divide cities, municipalities and regions. We're not talking about absolute numbers today, we're talking about relative numbers. We've always heard that cities and regions, and I agree with that, are supposed to breathe with the state budget. Unfortunately, we do not have all shared taxes, so cities and municipalities only breathe with some taxes, e.g. All excise duties are left standing, but so be it. So we're talking about the relative share of the total tax collection. It's just that the minister was talking about it growing. That's not what we're talking about today, that's not what we're talking about today, we're arguing about how much community is supposed to get out of this. And we say, let's not leave the current situation, let's add 2 billion next year, another 1.7 billion in 2017 and another 6 billion in 2018. That's how it is. So if I add it all up, if it all goes through, it's 2 + 3.7 + 10, that's roughly 16 billion crowns in three years. And on top of that, you can have the state budget. And if I were optimistic and thought that the spending of the state would be the same in 2017 and 2018 as in 2016, we'd want $3.3 trillion and $3/4 trillion for the municipalities. In other words: out of 3,750 billion, we want 16 for municipalities over a period of three years. But you decide on your own by voting whether the municipalities for such a small ratio, 1% for those three years is 33 billion, so we're talking about half a percent in three years, and the Prime Minister is seriously convinced that the state budget can't afford it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u99	There's been a transfer of priority rights, so President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u100	Thank you. I, for a very short time, think that all the arguments have fallen - not systemic, factual and political, close party, but they have been mentioned only by the Minister because he is not aware of the difference in terms of a narrow party interest and political argument. However, Minister, it is difficult to accept your confirmation that you understand the needs of the municipalities when you are not taking advantage of this opportunity at the same time, so that as the government balances the coefficients of the regions, you support their settlement with the municipalities. Then you just don't understand the needs of the municipalities. Then it's probably the same argument as when you say that you understand the needs of people to eat healthy, and you send them to the tables of church sausage and water chicken. This is exactly the same thing. You just say you understand the needs of the municipalities, and you don't want to give them a crown. With this I therefore turn to each of the Members of this House. If we understand the needs of the municipalities, let's do the same fair and equally unfair operation as in the regions, because when the operation you're now changing changed back then, it changed exactly the same way with the municipalities and the regions. Now that you're only returning it to the counties and not changing it to the municipalities, you're not being fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u101	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor and inform us of the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u102	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, at the 29th meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 14 October 2015, approved and recommended the following voting procedure: There are two packets of amendments. They are marked with A1 and A2, which is the proposal of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and then there is a packet of amendments B1 to B4 and that is the proposal of Mr Vilímec, Mr Stanjura and Mr Beznoska. I propose the voting procedure as follows: First we vote en bloc on Amendments A1 and A2. If these amendments were approved, only points B2 to B4 will be voted on in the second vote because B1 will be unvoting. If point A1 and point A2 are not adopted by this House, we will vote on points B1 and B4 as a whole in the second vote. In conclusion, we will vote on the law as a whole, including, where appropriate, the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u103	Thank you. I'm gonna ask if anyone else has a procedure or wants to get out of the procedure. Yes, it is. Chairman Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u104	I just want to make sure that B2, B3 and B4 are separate. [[The rapporteur Free suggests no.]] Well, don't be mad at me, everyone has a different period, one year 2016, one year 2017 and one year 2018. I suggest we vote separately on each year. It's got logic. The designs don't have anything to do with each other because the numbers don't follow up. I trust you'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u106	Well, I guess there's gonna be a vote. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u107	Okay. In that case, you adopted President Stanjura's proposal. I'll ask if there's any interest in voting on the procedure... Yeah, just in case. So we will vote that we agree with the procedure, as the rapporteur has put it, and amended Mr Stanjura. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's okay with the procedure. Who's against it? The vote is 147, registered 168, for 162, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur, first motion for a resolution. [[From the diaper checkout request.]] Sorry to unsubscribe, yes. I'll check you all out. I ask for a new registration, and please the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u108	Therefore, my esteemed colleagues, I am now voting on Amendment A1 and A2 by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u109	Yes. I'll ask for an opinion. [[Rapporteur: Committee on Budgets negative.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Two disagreements. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 148, registered is 156, for 74, against 21. This proposal has not been adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u110	Okay. As block A amendments have not been adopted, there will be a gradual vote on block B amendments, namely B1, B2, B3 and B4. So, my fellow Members, I am now voting on Amendment B1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u111	I'm going to vote in the vote that I've just begun... [[with a smile]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One more opinion. [[Rapporteur: Committee on Budgets negative.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I am now opening the vote and asking who agrees with the B1 proposal. Who's against it? Voting 149, registered 157, for 68, versus 30. This proposal has not been adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u112	I will now ask the President to vote on paragraph B2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u113	Opinion, please? [[Rapporteur: Committee on Budgets negative.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 150, registered 158, for 67, against 22. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u114	We will now vote on point B3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u115	Opinion, please. [[Rapporteur: Committee on Budgets negative.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 151, registered 158, for 67, versus 26. This proposal has not been adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u116	The last amendment is B4. I ask for a vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u117	One more opinion. [[Rapporteur: Committee on Budgets negative.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 152, registered is 159, for 67, against 21. This proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u118	We have thus dealt with all the amendments, and I therefore now recommend voting on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u119	Yes. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 243/2000 Coll., on the budgetary determination of the revenue of certain taxes to local authorities and certain state funds, as amended, House printing 416." [[Act on budgetary determination of taxes]] I'll ask for an opinion. [[Rapporteur: Committee on Budgets positive.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 153, registered is 161, for 160, versus no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I will end this point and give the floor to President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u120	Thank you. I did not want to delay and speak before the final vote to convey our position on the final vote after no amendments were adopted. Let me inform you, then, colleagues, that despite the fact that no amendments were supported, which had their deep logic, we supported the Government's proposal because we do not want to waste resources on the regions to ensure their public services. However, I would like to propose to my fellow club presidents, other opposition clubs that have in vain supported the amendments, that we remain in the minority to do what we do, to put the voting stock on our website, to inform the municipalities, the mayors, to inform the residents of the municipalities who really think or do not think of their interests, because the political compromise, the political decision - we have argued here what is the narrow party interests and what is the political decision - the hand looked the following way. "I tell you," said Andrej Babiš, "dear Social Democrats, I will release money for your commanders in the regions when you release my subsidies and tax relief for my business group." This business went on and the communities stayed out. Please, let's put the voting list on each of our websites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-004-148.u121	Let's continue with the point.
