ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-004-053.u1	53. Government bill amending Act No. 77/1997 Coll., on State Enterprise, as amended /German Press 600/ - First Reading The prepared Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-004-053.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the proposal for an amendment to the State Enterprise Act. This comprehensive draft amendment was drawn up on the basis of a number of suggestions from the SAO President arising from the audit work of this office and on the basis of an analysis of the status and activities of state-owned enterprises carried out by my Ministry in 2014. Its main objective is to define more precisely the rules for the management of a company with State property, to determine transparently the responsibilities and responsibilities of directors, their representatives and members of the supervisory boards of state enterprises, to strengthen the supervision of the founders vis-à-vis state enterprises, in particular in terms of monitoring and the correct management and management of state property. The amendment specifies the position of director of a state enterprise, defines its basic obligations and specifies the definition of its liability as a statutory body of the company. It strengthens and refines the position of members of supervisory boards in the field of internal control of the undertaking and requires those supervisory authorities to cooperate closely with the founders. The scope of the founders towards the state enterprise is also strengthened, in particular in terms of controlling the management of the funds and the management of the State's assets. The purpose of the proposed legislation is in particular to limit corruption risks. Accordingly, more precise and stricter rules are laid down for the regulation of the management of the property of undertakings, including the publication of plans to destroy their unnecessary immovable property. The amendment should also contribute to the accelerated completion of the liquidation of state-owned enterprises, which have lost their entrepreneurial capacity and economic importance after privatisation of the decisive part of their assets. At the same time, the amendment brings the State Enterprise Act into line with the general legislation governing the status of legal persons and their bodies, in particular the Civil Code and the Commercial Corporation Act. Dear Members, honourable Members, in conclusion, I would like to ask you to support this bill at today's meeting as well as in the following legislative process in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies at second and third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-004-053.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask now that the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Pavel Šrámek, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-004-053.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, as the Minister has already said, this is a regulation of the law or an amendment to the law, and actually the legislation is an exact definition of the position of competences and responsibilities of directors and members of supervisory councils of state-owned enterprises and the relations of corporate bodies with their founders. Furthermore, the aim is to establish a basic set of rights and obligations of undertakings representing the content of the right to manage the property of the State. The proposal is intended to limit, among other things, the corruption risks, as the Minister has already mentioned, and to avoid mismanagement and non-discriminatory sales of assets. This press has been directed to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee, and I would like to propose that this press be ordered to discuss, of course, also to the Economic Committee of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-004-053.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Petr Kudela was the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-004-053.u6	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, have a lovely afternoon. I'm glad this bill came to first reading. It is a pity that I did not lose some two or three months earlier at the time when we discussed the Czech Post Act, because the provisions that were adopted there should have been adopted in this law. I want only a few comments on the text of the law. I'll say one: Section 12, Section 15, appointment of the Director. There's a slight discrepancy texting, but those are, I think, things that can be removed at second reading. So I also recommend to the House that the law be passed to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-004-053.u7	I thank Mr Kudel. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. There's no one like that. I am therefore ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. I do not see any motion to rebut or reject the proposal. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 252 vote, 139 Members and Members registered, for 129, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a motion on the next committee's commandment. It's not like that. I am therefore of the opinion that the proposal has been directed to the Economic Committee as a guarantee, and I am ending the first reading of this bill. The next item is the item number
