ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. Mr Rykala votes with replacement card No. 6. I would like to inform you that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend: Mrs Bebarová-Šincl - a foreign trip, Mrs Benešová within 11 hours - working Votava, Mr Birke within 16 hours without giving any reason, Mrs Dobešová - a foreign trip, Mrs Gabal within 11 hours - working Válková, Vice-President Gazdík - personal reasons, Mrs Golasowská - personal reasons, Mr Kádner - family Vácha, Mr Jaroslav Klaška within 13 hours - family reasons, Mr Kostřica - health reasons, Mr Koubek - personal reasons, Mrs Marková - family reasons, Mrs Matušovská - personal reasons, Mr Josef Novotný - working reasons, Mr Okleštěk - medical reasons, Mr Pilný within 12 hours - working reasons, Mr Pleticha within 14.30 hours - working reasons, Mr Sklenák within 11 hours - health Ženíšek, Mr Novotný - working reasons, Mr Okleštým - working Zelienková - medical reasons, Mrs. Minister Brabec apologizes from the members of the government within 11 hours - working reasons, Minister Chovanec - foreign travel. Mr Kučera does not apologize, but he votes with card No. 17. Minister Jurečka within 11 hours for work reasons, Minister Marksová from the morning meeting - working reasons, Minister Mládek - foreign travel, Minister Němeček from the morning meeting - working reasons, Minister Pelikán - foreign travel and Minister Stropnickýý within 11 hours for work reasons. So many apologies. I would like to inform you that today's meeting will begin with item No. 170, which is the government's response to written interpelations. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is possible to apply for oral interviews by 11 no later than 11 o'clock and their draw will take place at 11.30 o'clock. So much for an introduction. We're going to discuss point 170, which is a written interpelation.
