ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, and other related law /house print 351/ - second reading The Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will state, under the authority of the Government, the draft bill submitted. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 December last year, you discussed at first reading the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act and ordered it to six committees - the Economic Committee, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Constitutional Law and the Committee on Social Policy. The bill gradually passed all these committees. I have already introduced you to the substance of the proposed amendment at first reading and during committee discussions. I would therefore just like to remind you today that the aim of this amendment is also to ensure transposition into our legislation of Directive/21/27/EU on energy efficiency, adaptation of Regulation 347/2013 on guidelines for trans-European energy networks and Regulation 1227/2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market and, last but not least, the European Commission's notification decision to promote renewable energy sources. A large part of the amendment points are covered by the amendments related to the new Civil Code and the Commercial Corporations Act. All the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the amendment to the Energy Act in detail and discussed the amendments. Many of them were duplicated and appeared in more than one committee. On the basis of the discussion of the bill in the committees, allow me to appreciate your constructive approach and efforts to find a generally satisfactory solution here. We are all aware that the energy law and its adjustments have always aroused general attention and emotion. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you will take into account the amendments adopted in the committees in your decision-making process. I will address them as well as other amendments at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. The date of 11. 12. At the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the press was ordered to discuss the Economic Committee, the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Agriculture, the Constitutional Law Committee, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Social Policy. The transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure states that, if it is not clear to the Chamber of Deputies before the amendment is effective, which committee is a guarantee committee, the Guarantee Committee shall designate the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore propose that we make the Economic Committee a guarantee committee. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. But before we do, I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. We will vote that the Economic Committee will be a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 14, registered 142 present, for 142. I'm stating that the proposal has been approved. The Committee on Economic Affairs shall be the Committee on the Guarantee Committee for this Press. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 351/1 to 9. I ask now that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Milan Urban, take the floor, inform us of the committee's discussion and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Committee discussed this amendment on 9 February this year and adopted a resolution which recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the Council's 351, as amended by the amendments and legislative technical comments. These amendments are, of course, at your disposal in the Economic Committee's resolution, so at this point in time, in order not to prolong the negotiations, perhaps I would like to make it easier for some other emerging situations, I would like to say that all the amendments adopted to the Economic Committee were proposals agreed by the referring Ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I think that is an important statement for further consideration of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u5	Thank you, too. I now ask that the rapporteurs of other committees take the floor gradually, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committees and justify any amendments. I therefore ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr René Číp, and I ask that Mr Jan Volný, rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, the Committee on Budgets at its 18th meeting on 28 January 2015 discussed the Government's bills and I would now like to read the resolution adopted. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Pavel Šolec, Mr René Číp's report and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws be approved in the wording of amendments that can be found in the system as the House's press 351/5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u7	Thank you. Now please the rapporteur of Mr Jan Volný's agricultural committee - whom I do not see here, so he is on his way. I will therefore ask the rapporteur of the constitutional law committee, Mr Vlastimil Vozka - to be excused, so I would ask someone from the constitutional law committee to take up the role of rapporteur. Before you agree, I will therefore ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Václav Zemk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on the Environment also discussed this amendment at its meeting and adopted a resolution on this subject, which can be found in the system under 351/3. The resolution says that the Committee on the Environment recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted. There were eight amendments adopted, and you will find it in the House press you have in the system. If there's interest, I can read it here, but it would be quite long. Secondly, it instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of this draft law and, fourthly, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. So many resolutions of the Committee on the Environment. Otherwise, I will note that most of the amendments that we have been discussing are in agreement with the other committees, because a number of those amendments have been made double and triple. So much. You can find the details in 351/3, as I have already said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u9	I thank you and now please the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Tejc, for his comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u10	Thank you for the floor. I am convinced that I am not the rapporteur for this press. He's one of my colleagues. However, as chairman of the committee, I will certainly represent, and I will say one thing in this matter. The Constitutional Committee discussed this press and adopted one single amendment. We were not meant to express our ambition to those technical things or things that belong to other committees, particularly economic ones, but only to consumers, and we adopted an amendment that gives greater rights to consumers. The new regulation in line with the European directive says that it will be possible to withdraw from the energy supply contract within 14 days of its conclusion. Today's practice and situation under the law is better for consumers, as it can be up to 14 days before the start of deliveries. We have chosen a solution that should be for the benefit of consumers. It will, of course, be to consider the guarantee committee whether this will stand before the European Commission. I, like colleagues, have come to the impression that the European Commission, which is constantly saying that consumers need to be protected, should not, in the end, diminish the rights of our consumers by its command. So, as I have already said, only one amendment in favour of consumers, so that we are able to prevent those door-to-door vendors who are dating energy contracts that are not advantageous and sin that new customers will not withdraw from these contracts in time, and we want to give them more room for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u11	Thank you. And now, please, the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I've only been for a very short time. Even if we were assigned to the House to discuss this as a committee on social policy, and it was a little strange, so we did it, even if we were the last committee, because last week on Monday we were discussing precisely the matter that the House is currently dealing with. So the fact that we are empowering the Committee's rapporteurs in our committee has been practically passed, which is what I am in order for the committee's opinion to be presented to the Assembly of Deputies. In fact, we have only made two amendments with regard to the amendments. One was about the Ombudsman, you have all these proposals in your materials, and the other was about the licence holders and the distance was closed. I'm not gonna read it because it's in your materials. Our committee passed last week on Monday and we recommend approval to the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u13	I thank you and now please the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Jan Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u14	Madam President, fellow Members. Order of the Agricultural Committee No 68 of the 16th meeting held on 28 January 2015. This resolution has been distributed to all of you under the number of the House press 351/7 and is at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u15	Thank you, too. And I am now opening up a general debate in which I have priority rights to register Mr Marek Černoch's application. Then I ask Mr Petr Adam to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u16	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, on this behalf of the Dawn Assembly, to return the law to committees for a new hearing. First of all, let me reiterate that such non-standard negotiations of a law are not seen in the Czech Chamber of Deputies. There was so much pressure on his approval that Minister Mládek broke all the legislative rules, he submitted several versions of the law, he did not settle comments, which were more than a thousand. He didn't calculate the effects of regulation, so the RIA gave it back to him with a negative opinion. [[16.20 hours]] The law reached the first reading in November last year, but Minister Mládek had to travel, so the law was withdrawn and at the last minute he was admitted to second reading just before Christmas. Then the unprecedented melah began, or the energy laws said that this melah would always occur, but many of us had not yet had the opportunity to experience this. Suddenly, with hundreds of amendments, only the rapporteur of the law, Mr Urban made over 180, so it is incomprehensible how the law can go further in the legislative process and pretend that this amendment is in order. In six committees, over 350 amendments were held, and the law had already made 1000 comments. Is that a good law that was promised to us? Is that the law to decide the hundreds of billions of crowns that we all pay for energy? The Dawn Movement held three seminars in the Chamber of Deputies, which few have bothered to come to and discuss the law. You would learn that, even after three months of Parliament's discussions, no one knows what impact the amendment will have. The D.O.D. calculated something, but no one knows where it came from. Neither the Energy Regulatory Office nor the energy companies are able to calculate the impact so far. However, they draw attention to a number of risks, such as the plan to divide small solar power plants, which will cost the state budget up to CZK 35 billion. The controller also draws attention to a number of shortcomings. I will quote from the President's letter, which you have probably all received: "Unfortunately, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has repeatedly been wrong about the effects of amendments to the prices in the past, resulting in costs for the state budget and all citizens in the amount of 1 beat. Crowns. The Czech economy cannot afford another equivalent of a solar boom. Therefore, the Energy Regulatory Authority considers it essential that the impact on prices is known in advance and all risks of their growth are eliminated. The amendment under discussion in this text may cause price regulation to collapse in the energy sectors.' The government of the Czech Republic, which has already imposed on the Ministry of Industry and Trade by the end of 2015, is probably aware of this problem, also preparing another amendment to the Energy Act relating directly to Section 19a, i.e. the principles of regulation. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you to decide how to vote. It is up to you whether you will believe the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which has been wrong so many times in its financial estimates, or whether you will share the concerns of the Energy Regulatory Authority from the huge risks presented by the amendment. For several years, the Energy Regulatory Office has accurately and truthfully calculated the impact of previous legislation on the Czech economy and final consumers. Unfortunately, all forecasts are gradually being met, but at least part of the correction has been achieved. First of all, financial support for new renewable resources has been stopped following pressure from the Energy Regulatory Authority and, at the same time, a fee has been imposed on renewable resources. Similarly, the Energy Regulatory Authority is now seeking only to ensure equal conditions for all market participants and, above all, the protection of consumers, citizens of our country, families with children and pensioners, i.e. those who cannot defend themselves and must trust the authorities of the government and their elected representatives to defend their rights. The Dawn Movement wants to protect the interests of its constituents and will protect them. The Ministry of Defence makes the arguments concerning the threat to the protection of the weakest consumers and energy security of the Czech Republic spectacularly negative. Given the results so far shown by Minister Mládek, we have all the lights flashing and we propose to return the law to the first reading and have time to redo it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u17	Thank you. I'm registering two priority rights. First President Tomio Okamura and then Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is a dangerous piece of shit. And again, after the problem with solar power plants, there is a large tunnel for citizens' wallets. There are 350 amendments and, after consulting with many experts, they do not know for themselves, and I say that I do not underestimate the policies here. There are no quantified economic impacts, i.e. effects on prices. Even the relevant regulatory authorities are unable to quantify the impact. In this context, I am interested to know where the Ministry of Industry actually calculated some of its preliminary figures from, where it practically sucked them out of its finger. The government wants to do an amendment to the amendment, which has already been announced here, and I therefore ask why, in such an important law, the government will not prepare the law properly. Because for such a serious issue that affects all citizens of the Czech Republic, the law deserves to be perfect and that soon the bad law, this dangerous son of a bitch, is really functional and proper from the start. So the government itself recognizes that the law is wrong, and is already preparing an amendment to the amendment. Again, I would like to stress that there is a risk of a 20 per cent increase in gas for citizens. We need to be told, and so have the experts. There is a threat of a 20 per cent increase in gas prices for citizens. And in this context, I repeat once again that the government has not, from this point of view, made any arguments to convince us that perhaps this might be the other way around. I was just talking about the fact that economic impacts are not being quantified, or regulatory authorities are not even able to quantify them at this point. Therefore, I would repeat the motion of the Úsvit movement to return the law to the completion of the first reading and ask you for your support. At the same time, I would like to stress that not only will we do our utmost today to delay this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u19	Thank you. I beg you, Minister Mládek's priority right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must briefly respond to the obvious falsehoods, of course through Madam President, which are communicated here by the representatives of the ANO movement. [[Glee in the hall.]] Dawn. [[Applause in the ranks of Members of the Dawn.]] Yes, the representatives of the Dawn movement are telling the obvious untruths. The first obvious false fact is that there has been no proper standard negotiation of this law. This law was properly discussed in the Government, in the Legislative Council of the Government, a commentary procedure was settled. The first reading took place twice, it was discussed in six committees. The Economic Committee has dealt with it twice. He had a special working group, which dealt very closely with each amendment, and given that we have a change in the Rules of Procedure, he will, if he passes this law through second reading, look again, because this is a new rule, so as to remove some gaps from our Rules of Procedure. The negotiation is more than standard. Non-standard is the practice of the Dawn movement, which even suggested that we still have a special meeting on how to discuss this law. That's absurd, and it wasn't used to be here. I would also like to say, and in particular to the public, that the talk about increasing gas prices by 20 per cent is on the verge of an alarm report. Of course, there's no such thing. It's misleading. It's a lie! That's not how it works. The Ministry of Industry and Trade carefully evaluates the effects of the law, the effects of individual amendments, and it is sad that some officials use, I mean Mrs Vitásková, who has not agreed that this body has competence to decide whether the ERU will rule itself, will continue to be self-sustaining, or there will be advice. This should not be decided by the entity involved, but by this legislature, because it has a responsibility to voters. So please, let's not take it, let's not let it affect us, and let's not be manipulated by officials who obviously go beyond their jurisdiction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u21	Thank you. In fact, I beg you, Mr Černoch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u22	Thank you. I would like to say that the President of the ERÚ has absolutely nothing against the Council. And the second thing that has been said at one of the seminars from your deputy, that property settlements under the gas pipelines are not really clear yet. This means that he too has admitted that there can be a price increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u23	Thank you and with fact I have Mr Okamura's application, then Minister Chládek. Mládek. [[instant laughter in the hall]] Sorry. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u24	I'd like to respond to the Minister. If the law had been so well made, it wouldn't have had 350 amendments. And you would have dealt with these proposals long ago at the Ministry. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u25	Thank you, and please the Minister, if he wants factual or proper. [[Proper.]] Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u26	I would like to comment on the burdens, because I would like to say what the problem is. During the previous regime and long after, from 1948 to 2000, no material burdens were written on your land, on the land of citizens and companies. The Government's Legislative Council, it was not the original proposal of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, believes that these facts need to be reflected in the cadastral so that everyone who buys the land knows that there is some pipe, there are possibly some cables. There is, of course, a problem how to do it. It shouldn't be a classic insertion, it should be a projection. After debates in the Economic Committee and in other committees to be on the safe side, this matter will be excluded from this law and it will be dealt with by a special law on the cadastral office, because this thing, this debt we have, needs to be resolved. It won't be about the dramatic billions, but it's only about administrative costs that may not be completely low. But this will not apply to this law. This has been postponed. But unfortunately, it is one of the other failings that stands before us, because the request of the Legislative Council of the Government was undoubtedly legitimate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u27	Thank you, and I ask you now with Mr Urban in fact and Mr Fiedler will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u28	Thank you for the floor. As rapporteur, I would only respond to the debate so far. I would like to assure you that the economic committee has been very careful about the issues of material burdens, has been very careful about the possible impacts, and wanted, of course, a very detailed material from the Ministry of Industry and Trade to see if, for example, the energy price increase cannot occur. The Economic Committee has discussed these matters from a very technical point of view, and it has also dealt with the complaints that you are now presenting, which are probably based on some reservations from the Energy Regulatory Authority. The conclusion is clear. On the one hand, you're saying that the Ministry didn't sum up and represent any impacts, then you're saying that it did, but that the numbers were sucked out of the Ministry's finger, so at least some consistency in the statement is needed. And now that I am looking at my colleague Okamura, just a statement on the numbers of the amendments. [[The appointed one stands in the alley looking at the speaker]] There aren't that many. As a matter of fact, yes formally, but everyone who has dealt with that standard knows that most of these amendments are duplicates. For example, the Committee on Budgets and the Economic Committee on Economic Affairs had basically the same amendments. So adding these amendments as individual amendments to this standard is not possible enough. So from this point of view, divide that number by two, and then you'll probably be somewhere on the right number of amendments. But I don't think that's relevant. It's just that it sounded like a microphone, so I took the opportunity to talk about the numbers. I think--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u29	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time. [[- Thank you.]] Mr Fiedler, please prepare Mr Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u30	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would, therefore, first of all, use the factual point to react briefly to what has just been said here by Mr Urban's rapporteur. Mr President, of course, if I divide 350 by two, we're on some 175. Do you really think that's the right number of amendments to the proposed government amendment? You've got to be kidding me, rapporteur. I mean, I hope you're kidding, you think that's the right number of amendments to the law that went through the proper commentary procedure. About the burden of things. From your Deputy Minister, through Madam President Minister, we have heard that if the amendment which excludes this is not applied and you spoke about it a moment ago that it will be ruled out, it will be a problem. And he's the amendment there, and I rerecorded it, even though the Committee on Budgets didn't approve it. And I'm looking at what time it is. [[The speaker looked at the board as to how many seconds left until the end of his factual remark.]] This also indicates the quality of this submitted material. If you yourself say that if these amendments fail, it will be a problem, so do not be angry with me, through Madam President Minister. You yourself have a mark on how good the bill is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u31	Thank you, and now please, with another Mr Okamura in fact, Mr Urban will be prepared and then Mr Černoch. It's all factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to see Mr Urban through Madam President, when he has already spoken of 350 amendments, so when I count it, 180 of them are yours. And you even gave one of them the last time yesterday. This, of course, shows that we should pay attention, especially when I suspect that in the PV Act, that is, about solar power plants a few years ago, basically Mr Urban was one of the workers. This means, even from this point of view, it deserves deeper attention. And we really need to get this bill back to committee discussion so that we can take a closer look at it. That means, I don't know how now that you said 350 divided by two, if it's the 180, if it's all your amendments, but in any case, in the government law, there shouldn't be several hundred amendments, whether we divide it by two or not. In our opinion, the law needs to be examined even better, because even with the photovoltaics, if I remember it well, it may have looked a little different at the time, and it was only after a few years that the appalling effects on the whole Republic and also on the citizens of the Czech Republic and on the budget. This means that it is necessary to germinate in peace what the amendments mean, what is hidden there, because it is not normal that several hundred amendments are made in such a fundamental law. And that's what we're trying to do in Dawn - calmly escalate what's under all these amendments. And experts have also told us that they do not know this well so that the impact on citizens of the Czech Republic is as small as possible, preferably none, or best in positive figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u33	Thank you, and now please, with the factual rapporteur, Mr Urban. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u34	Thank you. The value of these performances is actually very dubious, because when you listen to them, you find it really hard to argue, so I'm performing for the last time. Firstly, I said here that the amendments approved by the Economic Committee are all amendments which have also been dealt with positively by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. There's no 180. I don't do any 350, 180 here. There are significantly fewer of them, and all amendments have been sanctified by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, that is to say, during the discussion of the Economic Committee, they said yes, we agree and we agree why and we know what it has and does not have the relevant consequences. So that's one thing, and it's hardly worth commenting on any other numbers. I say no one gets the price up, someone gets the power down and somebody gets the same. It's just obvious to the Highness. Whoever says otherwise here either doesn't know it or deliberately raises alarm messages here and mystifies citizens and the Chamber of Deputies. This standard will significantly improve the position of customers on the market, and I could continue. [[16.40 hours]] Because it's a time-limited note, I'm going to comment on the Renewable Resources Act. The law has in no way caused these enormous solar problems and what the Czech Republic is paying to the solar barons today. It wasn't the law. This was caused by the methodology changed by the Energy Regulatory Authority, which started paying 13 out of six crowns of the purchase price within one month. The problem was that the intervention that governments were supposed to do in 2009 was delayed. And they've put it off for so long that the market's been swamped by giant solar power plants. So don't talk about this being caused by the law. That's not true. On the contrary, this was caused by the regulatory authority by an incorrect methodology for calculating these charges. [[Attention on time.]] Well, that's the last time I got off because it doesn't make sense to respond to all the lay comments someone else wrote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u35	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Černoch's mike, in fact, and Mr Zemek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u36	Mr. Colleague, that's not an alarm report. Those aren't really alarm messages. Because after a while, it suddenly turns out that it wasn't right, and it will be said that it was wrong then and why it was accepted. I would only, if I may, ask the Minister if the burden has been withdrawn, so if he can tell what the cost of this has been calculated. Is that possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u37	Thank you, and please, with another Mr Zemk in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u38	Thank you. I'll be brief. As has been said here from the mouth of Mr Okamura, perhaps the standard has not been properly discussed. I can say for myself the experience of the Committee on the Environment, where I was rapporteur and where we have actually discussed the various amendments in detail. There was a representative of the Dawn, there were representatives of the Ministry and it was properly discussed, there was no protest that something had not been escalated there, so I don't know how much more we should discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u39	Thank you, and now I have two more facts. Mr Fiedler, and I presume that Minister Mládek will react factually afterwards. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u40	Thank you. At the moment, I would respond to a previous speaker, a colleague of Zemk. It is strange that I hear reservations directly from MEPs of the ČSSD that the comment procedure was at least somewhat unstandard. That's weird. To the rapporteur, Mr Urban, through Madam President. Ambassador, I didn't notice that we were reading any factual notes here that we had something prepared. You see here that my colleagues and I are reading some factual remarks? I don't see it. And I have one more question. If there are so many amendments - and we do not try to make light of it - that 180 is divided by two or 175 or 350, they will continue to increase and increase - why are we in such a hurry to pass this law? Where does time take us? Bad experience, very negative photovoltaic experience was a small warning for us? What's the hurry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u41	Thank you, and now please, with the de facto Minister Mládek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u42	I'd like to respond to the burdens. There is a problem with the fact that there should be a projection and it is the administrative costs of those companies that we should ensure. That's why we've moved on, too, and it's going to be dealt with in a special law. There would be no other costs except administrative costs. I have one more thing to say here. The debate on the number of amendments, which supposedly generates poor quality of the law, is completely pointless. Because there were 1,400 amendments in 1999 when this law was discussed in a similar manner. This law is interestingly sensitive, there are many interest groups who want to get theirs, so it is no wonder that it will appear in some amendments. That's what we need to exist, and that's what this body is for to deal with. And I'd also like to comment on the photovoltaic. The basic problem, as my colleague Urban said here, was not that there was a law in 2005, but the problem was that there was some change in the black panel market, which had become cheaper, and the legislator responded with great delay. That was the big problem. So even if there were any problems, if there is a political will to respond, it can be resolved quite quickly. The example of photovoltaics is a completely different problem. It was that there was no political will to respond to a thing that had been overcome and which threatened to cause great economic damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u43	Thank you, and now we can continue the proper debate. Please contact Mr. Petr Adam's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u44	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I admit I have notes because I'm gonna be here for a while, so I have to have something written after all. We have heard from the Minister that it was not customary for any movement or party to go against any law. Well, I guess it's about time someone got back to me. Because what we've been experiencing here in recent years, all of us, and probably our colleagues from YES, have aroused the fact that it's time for someone else to sit in the House, too. Like all of you, I have experienced the usual pressure to discuss laws relating to energy. Although I am a newcomer in the House, everyone has heard of the energy or solar lobby in this republic. It's not a pleasant pressure, but we should definitely endure it. Interestingly, such unusual congratulations are given to those historic Members and Ministers and former Ministers for Social Democracy who are always ruthlessly beating each other for change and money who knows who, and to those new Members and Ministers of the ANO movement who claimed that they no longer wanted to have anything to do with this political matrix. I believe that the real reasons for all of this are being obscured, the reasons why they are pushing themselves so hard. I'm gonna make a little more of a statement on this. I'll start with a financial reason. The only reason why large energy consumers are pushing for the adoption of the amendment to the Energy Act and the amendment to the Act on Supported and Renewable Energy Resources is the amount of remuneration for renewable energy sources. In principle, all market participants are opposed to this amendment. Controlled entities, Energy Regulatory Authority and representatives of ordinary consumers. Everyone is afraid that this poor law will only cause confusion. The contributions to renewable resources are now the same for all, namely CZK 495 per megawatt hour. So they're dependent on consumption. The amendment to the Act in accordance with the request of the European Union changes the method of payment to the charge for the circuit breaker, or instead of consumption, the payment is determined by the capacity that the consumer orders from the distributor. Large Czech industrial companies are promising from this change that they will save several billion crowns from the half-year on payments caused by most solar booms. Although the Energy Act has not yet been approved in the Chamber of Deputies, the government is already counting on its budget to increase its contribution to renewable resources by more than CZK 3.45 billion - CZK 3 billion 450 million. But it is not possible to do this even from the beginning of next year, given how the negotiations are extended and may be delayed. The Energy Regulatory Authority has therefore proposed, and I fully agree with that, that reserve of 3.615 billion. CZK, which we created with our draft state budget for 2015, use for targeted subsidies of voltage levels for high and very high voltage. We will de facto subsidize the Czech industry, increase its competitiveness and do not have to embark on a very risky adventure with a legislative scumbag prepared by the MIT. You will be able to reparate with another novel that is already being prepared. For the sake of clarity, I'll put the numbers on the table for what it might mean. Large enterprises would pay CZK 120 less from mid-2015 for every megawatt hour consumed. So the savings would be almost 25 percent compared to today's state without additional costs for the state budget. [[16.50 hours]] I therefore propose to the Prime Minister, together with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, to adopt a government resolution which will read as follows: The State Budget's resources for granting a grant to cover part of the electricity price for 2015 for customers on the voltage level of very high voltage are 2,262 billion. CZK, high voltage is 7,879 billion. CZK and low voltage is 5.559 billion to cover operating heat support. Crowns. Therefore, the amendment would not have to be discussed now, all steps could be properly prepared and it would be time to prepare an amendment on the ceiling of the maximum amount of energy I submit. In fact, there are no more positive financial reasons for adopting an amendment to the Energy Act. There are only very debatable reasons professional. First of all, the great desire of a number of people for the Energy Regulatory Authority to manage some sort of advice. I don't want to talk about that now. But what makes me go against an amendment to the Energy Act is financial risks. If, at the last minute, there is a problem with material burdens, where tens of billions of unnecessary crowns were threatened, but they are not actually dealing with it, they will only postpone, which is wrong, we should reject the law. If President Vitásková first promises to calculate how much this will cost, then she will come up with a minimum of 35 billion. in the field of renewables, but that the rest can't even be counted by energy companies themselves, that's a warning, and that's another reason to reject this law. If the Ministry comes up with an alleged calculation of the effects on prices, where there are clearly a number of half-truths and errors, and then claims that we are all unnecessarily hysterical and that there is certainly nothing going to happen, it is wrong and we should reject the law. If the same Ministry has been fatally wrong about tens of billions of crowns of renewable resources so many times in the past, and now it turns out that it has given state credits to solar barons for the construction of photovoltaic power plants, the Romaniness of the Ministry should be a warning and we should reject the law. Let's talk business. For the sake of this state, for the sake of our constituents, for the safety of all of us. Let us say how this law will affect the Czech economy, the Czech families, how our strategic investments will turn out, if we are not mocked in the European Union if we meet our international commitments. None of this matters, and we don't know who and how much they're gonna pay. So once again, it's a warning and we should reject the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u45	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Pilný in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u46	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would have tried to demonstrate the difference between the call for an alarm report and the solution in question in that short period of time. There was talk of material burdens and their registration, which will significantly affect the price of the gas. I don't know if the spreaders have contacted the head of the cadastral office. I did, and I would quote the conclusion on the current legislation: Minutes of authorisations of energy network operators and restrictions on landowners established without the conclusion of a contract before 2001 etc. is not an obligation and the Czech office of survey and cadastral has repeatedly warned in the past that this provision is of no practical importance. That's one. Secondly, the paragraph which introduced this obligation to leave a material burden was removed on the proposal of the MPO. Thirdly, Mr. Chairman of the Cadastral Bureau of Večeřa proposes several solutions, because, of course, we also need to protect the landowners. And the easiest thing to do is make a note that the land is affected by the construction of a technical infrastructure or an engineering network. This is a material solution to the problem, which will not bring any administrative costs or increase the price of gas. The only difference is that either we solve the problem with a warning message and create enormous emotions here, or we engage in a matter of fact. I bet none of the people who are discussing this have ever talked to the head of the cadastral office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u47	I thank you, and now, please, next in line, and this is Mrs Jana Hnyková. Mr Karel Fiedler will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution, let me comment on the Government Bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, House printing 351. Yes, it's a very important law. And I would like, through Madam President, to tell my colleague Urban that it is necessary to discuss him from all sides, because he will touch all the inhabitants of our country. We came here to see our citizens to discuss all the laws thoroughly, and as my colleague Votava says, so that they don't pass here. I am pleased to have the opportunity to express publicly my concerns about the weakening of consumer protection in the energy market of the Czech Republic in relation to the current amendment to the Energy Act. As has been said many times in several speeches by my fellow Members and fellow Members here in the House and in the media, the submitted amendment by the Ministry of Industry and Trade can have a fundamentally negative impact on end-of-energy prices, thus endangering consumers and final customers. Not to mention vulnerable consumers. It should be noted that it is not only a financial burden based on regulation itself, but also a lot of partial changes that will lead to more expensive services, namely end-of-life energy prices. A problem that is often neglected and not sufficiently clarified is the impact of the amendment of the Energy Act on the state budget of the Czech Republic. I'll explain. Not only will consumers have to dig deeper into their pockets to pay invoices for energy, but the money collected from them, citizens of the Czech Republic, will literally be thrown out of the state budget through the window. Repaired problems related to the solar boom in the form of a solar charge may reduce the division of plants into smaller units rapidly. The unselected money from private investors in quotation marks will then be missing in the budget to compensate the fees for supported renewable energy sources. Consumers will be beaten twice. I do not want to comment on this rather financial or economic issue any more in detail. I would like to devote time to the fact that consumer protection is not only a matter of economic burden, but also a question of the position of the consumer on the market, i.e. whether the consumer has the opportunity to defend himself against the behaviour and tactics of private entities in the event of problems related to their activities, virtually. relations arising from the concluded supply contract and related services. However, it is a question of transparency in the processes affecting consumers. Their changes must not only lead to a weakening of consumer protection, but also lead to confusion and chaos, which can then be used by dishonest door-to-door vendors. The wording is particularly negative, although it may not be obvious at first sight as regards the way in which the Energy Regulatory Authority's Board is appointed. In my opinion, there is a danger that lobbyist groups will push through the Ministry of Industry and Trade into a closer leadership of a person from practice who will dig so called. for its team and promote tailor-made regulation to the regulated entities they represent, regardless of the interests of consumers. I don't know why to put the appointed Prime Minister back in the game again, in the number of five people. The law now states the appointment of President of the Republic. Why does the Ministry of Industry and Trade want to limit its powers? [[17,00 hours]] I ask and add to the margins - and that is just my personal opinion: I do not understand why five members should be in charge of the Energy Regulatory Authority when the current leadership is headed by Mrs Vitásková's running of the office without problems and is transparent. In this regard, is it obvious that there are hidden motives behind the establishment of the council - or am I mistaken? Regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market, so-called REMIT's supposed to impose fines for machination on the market. It is strange that such financial flows and possible machination are subject to such low fines. In this respect, REMIT is implemented remarkably in an amendment to the Energy Act by the Ministry of Industry and Trade towards regulated entities, thereby de facto endangering consumers. Moreover, in this respect, a separate law was prepared for REMIT, but it was rejected and the regulation was thus imperfectly implemented directly into the body of the energy law. Many other provisions of the proposed amendment to the Energy Act are problematic or disadvantageous in relation to consumers. In most cases, there are systemic changes that make the processes more complex and thus become unclear to consumers. That's probably the intention. It is striking that the Ministry of Industry and Trade, as a consumer protection gesture, is thus weakening the position of consumers themselves. However, this is not only the problem of the amendment to the Energy Act, but also the problem of the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act in relation to energy. It is absolutely incomprehensible why, in addition to the energy Ombudsman, whose practice has already been introduced and proven in an internal form at the Energy Regulatory Authority, he should introduce an authorised entity by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which should act simultaneously. For one thing, it is confusing for consumers, and it is also the know-how of the Energy Regulatory Authority, which has dealt with consumer disputes for years, and as a result it is also inefficient. In addition to these points, I would also like to add that, according to European legislation, consumer protection in energy sectors, electricity, gas and heating, as well as the resolution of consumer disputes in energy, will be assumed at national level by national regulatory authority. In the case of the Czech Republic, therefore, the Energy Regulatory Authority. It also seems highly problematic to me that the amendments to the law result in obligations that would result in the need to amend some five million contracts. As I indicated at the outset, I see this as an area for abuse of the situation, and beyond the financial problems of the amendment, it will still lead to problems in contractual relations. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u49	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Have a good afternoon. Before we go any further, I shall state the apology that has come to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 5:00 p.m. the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok apologizes, Mr Matěj Fichtner apologizes from 17 for working reasons and from 17.15 to 19 Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. Before we proceed to the next in order, the President of the Dawn Club, Marek Černoch, exercised the right of priority. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I think there has been so much information here today, and very important information, by the petitioner and the rapporteur, that we are taking a two-hour break from the Dawn Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-10-ps2013-026-01-003-003.u51	There. Of course, I will announce a break for the Dawn Club meeting within 19 hours, but first I will ask the club presidents if they would come to me to discuss how to proceed with this matter, because we will probably need some time to discuss this matter, and tomorrow we should probably do this without Minister Mládek, who is due to be absent. Club president, please. [[Council of Club Chairs with President Vojtěch Filip.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have also begun to call on colleagues who are in the lobby to announce the next procedure that I have agreed with the President of the MPs. Given that today's meeting day was scheduled within 19 o'clock, I will call for a short break at the meeting of the Úsvit Club, which has significant comments, as is apparent from the Members and Members of the Council. At this brief meeting, we agreed that the chairman of the Social Democracy Club tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. when we continue, will submit a proposal for a continuation before the fixed points of this item number 3, i.e. printing 351 at second reading, so that we can actually achieve that the press can then be discussed in the guarantee committee approved in the procedural vote. [[17.10 hours]] As there is a fixed point per hour, if the printing of 351 had not been completed during the hearing, it would have been briefly interrupted to a fixed point which would have been discussed and continued printing 351. So that's prep for tomorrow morning so we know how we're going to proceed so we can use that time. I respect that the other club presidents have agreed to this in their own way, respectively. they have not protested strongly due to our conditions in the Rules of Procedure. So I'm declaring a recess for the Dawn Club meeting by 7:00 p.m. I look forward to seeing you tomorrow at 9 a.m. and we begin with the 351 press, which is the amendment to the Energy Act at second reading. We will continue with Mr Fiedler, who is duly entered in the debate, only after the change in that order has been voted on, because I cannot vote on this now, given that it is not possible, under the Rules of Procedure, to include a vote in the preparation of the intermission. Thank you and have a good evening.
