ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u1	68. Draft of the representative of the Moravian-Silesian Region for the Act amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and on Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended (the House Print 377/ - First Reading) The Government's position has been delivered as House Press 377/1 and we have received a decision, an extract from the resolution of the Moravian-Silesian representative of the Moravian-Silesian Region, which decided that instead of the Governor Miroslav Novák, the proposal submitted is justified by Deputy Governor Daniel Havlík, who I welcome among us. Before I give him my word, I will ask that Mr Martin Kolovratník, who is the rapporteur for first reading, take his place at the rapporteur's table. Now I ask the deputy chieftain of the Moravian-Silesian Region, Daniel Havlík, to justify the motion of the council. Please, Deputy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u2	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I present to you on behalf of the Representation of the Moravian-Silesian Region, which, at its 12th meeting on 11 March, 12. 2014 decided to submit a bill amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on road traffic and on amendments to certain laws, the Road Traffic Act, as amended in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. [[It's busy in the hall.]] The purpose of this proposed amendment is to clarify the provisions on the transmission of notices of the imposition of a block penalty and to extend the legal grounds for withholding a driving licence of suspicion of the fulfilment of only certain factual elements of the offences for which a ban on driving is imposed. Our proposal is not only a tightening of current penalties for speed, but a strengthening of their enforcement. It concerns the speed at which the driving ban is already imposed. The period of detention of the driving licence shall be counted against that prohibition. The proposal is also in line with the purpose of the institute of detention of a driving licence, both immediately preventing further road safety threats, i.e. the exclusion of an undisciplined or aggressive driver, and, on the one hand, preventing the driver from avoiding mistrials, which is unfortunately common practice today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u3	I will interrupt you, Deputy Minister, for a moment and ask the House for peace. If colleagues are still discussing the forest law, please transfer the debate to the foyer. I know it ended up exactly in the voice that it was rejected, so some of them are very sorry, but if we're discussing something else, please let the Deputy Minister justify the regional proposal in a dignified environment. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u4	Thank you for calming me down. Avoiding misdemeanor proceedings in the event of speed bans is not only very common today, but even today has become institutionalized. Unfortunately, today there are specialised companies representing the parties to the infringement proceedings, and their activities can be considered illegal. It is an unauthorized business consisting of commercial representation in administrative proceedings by persons who are not lawyers. Unfortunately, today there is very difficult proof of the provision of legal services consistently and for remuneration. The defence of the accused by these representatives is based almost exclusively on a well-thought-out system of procedural obstructions, which have to ensure impunity in the form of so-called impunity for drivers violating, above all, the highest speed allowed. insurance against fines. Just look at the website, there are several of these specialized companies, e.g. www.nechcipokutu.cz, www.jaknapokuty.cz etc. Unlike lawyers, the methods of these representatives are not subject to any ethical code. The situation in this regard has become unbearable throughout the Republic and requires a strong solution. In addition to the alleged inconclusiveness of our proposal to choose only to exceed the maximum speed allowed, I would like to point out that, in addition to the above, this choice takes into account the importance of interference with the rights of a citizen by withholding a driving licence. It is therefore not desirable to extend this institute to situations where the suspicion of an offence depends solely on the subjective assessment or perception of a police officer. However, the excess of the maximum permitted speed is already proven to be reliable on the spot by eligible technical means without the potential influence of subjective discretion, i.e. on the basis of objective empirical measurement of vehicle speed, as is the case with the detection of alcohol in the driver by a breath test or drug presence. We find the draft amendment to the Road Traffic Act submitted by the Ministry of Transport to be completely inadequate in this respect. The proposed new institute of driving, unlike the driver's licence, does not mean that the driver is not allowed to drive motor vehicles and that he will be affected by a significant penalty if he violates this ban, but only that if the driver does not carry this document, he may receive a penalty of between CZK 1 and CZK 2 and half a thousand. We believe that instead of invoking the rule of law, it will be more advantageous to use the existing and established institute for the retention of a driving licence and to extend its scope accordingly. We know about the government's disagreement. However, I really need to comment on the fact that the proposed legislation is disproportionately strict. Please note that the current legislation is, in essence, so strict that a ban on activities from six months to one year is imposed on those who exceed the highest permitted speed in the municipality by 40 km per hour and outside the municipality by more than 50 km per hour and more. Or a ban from one month to one year, who twice or more times in a period of 12 consecutive months exceeds the maximum speed limit in the village by 20 km in an hour or more or outside the municipality by 30 km in an hour or more. Detaining a driving licence thus only time shifts this strict penalty closer to committing an offence. If it is argued that in such a case the driver is prevented from driving a motor vehicle, even if it has not yet been decided whether the offence was committed, the offence was committed, and the penalties imposed on him for its commission, then the entire existing institute of detention of the driving licence would have to be questioned. To note that this institute should only be limited to situations where the driver, taking into account his/her condition, e.g. Driving under the influence of alcohol or other addictive substances, or their behaviour, e.g. arriving from the scene of an accident, disregarding the imposed driving ban, poses a particularly significant threat to road safety, we note that even a qualified exceeding the maximum speed allowed clearly constitutes such a threat and is one of the most common causes of serious traffic accidents. When we look at the statistics from last year, the greatest number of persons killed is proven to be due to a significant speed overrun. It is therefore entirely in the public interest that non-discipline and aggressive drivers should be excluded from road traffic immediately after the detection of offences and not after administrative proceedings, which, moreover, can prove to be prolonged by procedural obstructions nowadays. The alleged inconclusiveness of the proposals consisting in choosing only to exceed the maximum speed allowed, when other offences involving dangerous driving behaviour for which bans are imposed, such as failure to give priority in driving - we refer to the explanatory statement in the proposal. [[17.40 hours]] The retention of a driving licence constitutes a significant intervention in the rights of a citizen, and therefore it is not desirable that this authorisation be held by a police officer where the suspicion of an offence would depend solely on his subjective assessment. The excess of exceeding the maximum permitted speed, as I have already said, is proven to be reliably identified by eligible technical means without any possible subjective discretion. To remind you that the proposal thus creates an unequal situation for trespassers who exceed the speed of leave, compared with those who threaten other road users in a different way, I must state that, in that case, drivers who are being detained under current legislation are also at a disadvantage compared to drivers who are not being detained because they are in danger of imposing a driving ban in infringement proceedings. The choice of conditions for the detention of a driving licence is therefore a question of the legislature's consideration, although that discretion must be based on legitimate reasons. Also, from a constitutionally legal point of view, it cannot be considered as inequality if the exceeding of the maximum permitted speed is detected by an automatic technical device, such as a camera-system device, and the driver is not stopped and identified on the spot. In such a case, only the vehicle operator is fined without being able to impose a ban on the activity and entry of points in the driver's register, and this is not considered to be discrimination against drivers who are on-the-spot controlled. Ad absurdum could therefore be argued by the general unequal position of drivers whose traffic offence has been detected, compared with other drivers who violate road traffic rules and were not caught on site. Finally, in view of the normal period of administrative procedure, there is also a high likelihood that the period of administrative proceedings would in many cases exceed the legal scope of the ban on activities, I must say that I only point out that, under the current legislation, it is possible to retain a driver's licence from the place of the accident, which is either not imposed on that offence at all, or only if the driver has committed it twice or more in 12 consecutive calendar months. In such a case, a prohibition of action from one month to six months shall be imposed, as in the event of a violation of the maximum allowed speed pursuant to § 125c para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The impossibility of excluding aggressive drivers who significantly violate the maximum speed allowed from road traffic immediately after the detection of the offence, as well as effectively preventing them from obstructing the infringement, is a serious social problem which must be dealt with immediately. We find the draft amendment to the Road Traffic Act submitted by the Ministry of Transport, as we have pointed out, quite inadequate in this respect. The proposed provision of a driving licence is subject to a barely documented condition of reasonable suspicion that the driver will avoid infringement proceedings. And by the way, the Police of the Czech Republic is not, except for block management, an administrative body discussing the offence and normally does not have knowledge of the course of other driving with the same driver. Furthermore, this provision of a driving licence in contrast to a restrained driving licence does not mean that the driver will not be allowed to drive motor vehicles, but only that if the driver drives a motor vehicle, as I have already mentioned, he will violate the obligation to carry this document, which again is only an offence with penalties ranging from CZK 1,500 to CZK 2,500. I therefore believe that, in view of the above mentioned Moravian-Silesian Region, the draft law in the submitted text remains necessary and conceptual, and I therefore ask you for support, to go through the law first reading and move it to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u5	Thank you to Deputy Governor Daniel Havlík for submitting a proposal for a change, and please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u6	Colleagues, colleagues, good evening, not now as a representative of the electoral committee, but as a rapporteur for this law. The petitioner has been introduced to you in very detail and in detail. I will also try to simplify these arguments very briefly for time reasons. According to the proposal, a police officer should be entitled to hold a driving licence on the spot if the driver exceeds the maximum permitted speed of 40 km in the village or 50 km outside the municipality. Police should also have the right to hold immediately a driving licence in case of further speeding if the driver has done so again in the previous 12 months. This can be justified by the fact that the authors of the proposal, i.e. the Representation of the Moravian-Silesian Region, are most annoyed by the fact that drivers suspected of committing traffic offences use their legal law, are allowed to represent lawyers or specialised firms, and therefore de facto avoid the penalty from the point of view of the Moravian-Silesian Region. I'm sure these arguments have something to do with them. They can be understood, we all know the practice from the media, or - now I don't want to say from my own experience, but from my surroundings, or from the information that comes to us. But I, as rapporteur, must at this point in time call for opposition to these arguments, and I will also report that in a detailed debate, I will propose that this proposal be rejected. There are several reasons. The government has sent us a negative opinion. The proposal is considered by the Government, and I agree with the Government, to be non-systemic, for several reasons. I will briefly try to outline them, and, as I said, very simplify them. The first nonsystemic approach is the fact, and it was mentioned here that if the driver was caught in such high non-compliance with the highest allowed speed theoretically by some automated system, such as radar, the driver's license could not be taken from him logically at that time. But if he was measured by the police on the street or two of the streets next door, then at that point, he could be taken away. So it's a kind of unsystematic and unevenness, an unequal position towards trespassers. Another problematic issue raised by the government is the approach to the philosophy of the law and sanctions at all. To this day, the condition is that the driver's license, we de facto impose a ban on those who in some way threaten or are seriously dangerous. A drunk driver driving under the influence of narcotics or a little while ago caused some dramatic car accident. There are other little things. In this proposal, for example, it is proposed that copies of the penalty block should also be sent when notifying the offence or imposing a point on the relevant register of drivers. The government also considers this to be an unnecessary administrative burden. But the main reason to reject the motion at the moment is procedural or systemic in terms of the negotiations of us, the Chamber of Deputies. I want to warn you that the amendment to this law is Law No. 361/2000 Sb., we already have a large text here in the House ready, it is House Press 471, which was delivered to us on 21 April. So at this point, we are counting on the first reading to take place at the next House meeting. I am aware that this amendment will be discussed in the Economic Committee in autumn, in September, and during the other Houses of Meetings, during September and October, we will be fully devoted to it. I want to appeal to you that if we want to, and I understand this debate, and it is certainly good, to look at the point system, to revise it, to adjust it, to tighten it up, it is right and let us do it, but let us do it in a systemically and logical way, as I said, in other House meetings in the context of discussion and subsequent amendments to the press, 471. Let's not mess with quotes now, and let's not discuss one law in two ways. So much for me now to make a brief statement and, at the same time, to know that I will propose a rejection in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u7	I thank the rapporteur, and I am opening a general debate in which I have an application for both Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr rapporteur, but we will start with an untraditional, factual remark by Mr Radek Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u8	Thank you. I will respond to the rapporteur's speech and I would like to say to the plaintiff that, in addition to the fact that the new law is coming, today we have witnessed a second reading of the press of 368, and on the basis of the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, which has been modified and amended by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and it has been recommended that it be approved, so the pre-slip period is extended from one year to two years for the offence. [[17.50 hours]] I think it's also an important tool against those - how to put it politely - those specialists on this right, because it's one of the most important tactics - to last a year, not to get delivered, not to show up, apologize. It's gonna be a lot harder to last two years in my opinion. So a little bit of hope. We do things in the House sometimes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u9	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura in the debate now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna have a really short gig. We have heard from the plaintiff's mouth an extremely critical view of the government's activities. Only then, Deputy Minister, the Prime Minister is your party colleague. Just by the way. That's the government that underestimates it and has bad arguments in its opinion. I am almost certain that the Ministers of Social Democracy voted in favour of this, because otherwise such an opinion would not have passed, because it is my view that your party colleagues had to propose a negative government position. And the other thing. Since I'm from the Moravian-Silesian Region, I wonder why the council of our region is handling this. A matter of no doubt national importance. A government proposal is about to come up with hundreds of amendments. Because once a point system opens up, I can imagine that vividly. However, I think we have many more pressing problems in the Moravian-Silesian region than to address whether a policeman can hold a driver's license in place. Now, as a lawyer, it's more like entertainment. So it's probably the right legal diction that a cop can hold a driver's license, which is suspicious that he drove faster than he did. And I don't understand the word "suspected." So either we measure it and drive it harder, or we don't measure it, and we don't do it harder. Maybe the lawyers will explain to me that he's still a suspect, but when the speed is measured, it shows the policeman something, and that's where we should be. Not that he's a suspect that he's gone. That he's a suspect, they're the ones who do it, not the cops physically, but the ones who just take the pictures. But that's just to the edge. I think it's another useless law. I support the rapporteur's proposal, I will not give it, I will leave it to him, he has already announced it so that we can reject it. To do this in a government novel, because there will certainly be more of these incentives. But I can't summon the Deputy Governor, but if he wanted to answer my question, why is our country dealing with this? Don't we have enough to worry about with the authority of the county? Or do we have an extraordinary worse experience with road pirates in our region than elsewhere? I don't think it's any worse than anywhere else. I'm not saying it's better. But it's at least the second time today. I still understand the absurd suggestion that the county should have its motorway stamp. That's a hell of a nightmare for our council. That's what we should want, too, if it's 300 in the Karlovy Vary Region, so it should also be 300 in Moravian-Silesian, if not 280, because we have higher unemployment, and I don't know, I didn't compare average wages. I might understand that, though I wouldn't be up for it. But I really don't think it's worth losing your strength in the committee debate on this bill. I think we understand that there may be a lot of this in the debate. I don't want to ironize it, the proposal, because some rational one, I'd say a tough move towards road pirates should be found, and I think that space will be in the government's proposal and then a detailed debate, especially in the Economic Committee. That's where I can imagine. For myself and for our club, I say that we will support the rejection, however, when the government proposal comes, we will be inspired by this idea and we will discuss it with colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u11	I thank Mr Stanjur. The rapporteur is now enrolled in the debate, but with his own discussion paper, respectively. procedural, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. František Laudát will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u12	As I've announced, I'll be brief. I propose to the Chamber of Deputies to reject this proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. My colleague Laudát is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I exceptionally support my colleague Kolovratník in rejecting this proposal at first reading, exceptionally. As for the Moravian-Silesian Region, stamps, I wasn't here, and I'm terrified that such a proposal can pass, and the Moravian-Silesian Region should demand a discount as well. [[Nesroz.]] And now quite seriously about this proposal. If you cry that drivers who commit traffic offences make fun of the state administration, they don't show up, they don't pay, so in the world somewhere, for example in Canada, it's dealt with by paying for the offence until some time. You don't pay, it goes automatically to a quick trial, and if you're not sure that you didn't go over the speed limit or break the traffic code, it's gonna come back to that amount in a short period of time, and then the execution might come. And I can tell you, when I asked how high efficiency is, there's no way anyone would have taken the liberty, unless they're pretty sure they're in a dumpster, to get in front of that quick trial. So please come up with the fact that there will be escalated sanctions for obstruction for any reason, and it will start to work, and quite quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u15	I thank Mr Laudát. That was the last one entered into the debate. [[There's a lot of noise in the room. Members are talking out loud.]] Because I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Deputy? There's an interest in the final word. Please, Deputy Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u16	I thank Mr Stanjur. Of course, yes, from the Moravian-Silesian region. Well, it's one of the things that really bothers the Moravian-Silesian Region, because unfortunately, the number of people who die on our roads in the vicinity of Ostrava and Moravian-Silesian Region is higher and higher every year. Unfortunately, the number of these road pirates is increasing, and, of course, as far as the number of traffic accidents and the number of damage is concerned, they are constantly increasing. Of course, it's one of the things that will bother us. It's one of the things. Of course, there are things that worry more. However, we are fundamentally opposed to obtaining a driving licence here, and we know that, for example, Poland is also dealing with this situation in a radical way. I believe that if we do not finally tackle the situation radically in our country, in the Czech Republic, we will never get to the level of Western Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u17	I thank the Deputy Minister and ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. Colleagues, gentlemen, I'm going to ask for your peace. The rapporteur's final word and we will vote on the proposal that has fallen here. I'll wait. I understand that some of you are having a different discussion. You could at least be polite to the petitioners and rapporteurs so that we know what we are going to vote on. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u18	As a former moderator, I have no problem dramatically increasing the cadence of my voice, but I believe that will not be necessary. Colleagues, colleagues, I just want to update what I've already said or remind you once more. It's House press 471, we already have it in the system, and we will discuss it in the autumn months. I will be the rapporteur for both the Economic Committee and the House. For my part, I will personally be in favour of a radical tightening of the sentence and a really radical introduction of sanctions for the so-called. road pirates and those who really dangerously and dramatically violate the provisions on the maximum speed permitted. So I will be happy to collect all these proposals from you, to discuss them with you. For my part, I'm happy to support them in discussing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u19	I thank the rapporteur for his final vote and we will proceed to the vote. In the debate, the rapporteur proposed the rejection of the proposed bill. Since I banished you to the lobby, I'm going to check you out again, and I'm going to ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the motion to reject the 102 vote that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of the rejection. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 102 of the 141 Members present for 68, against 37, the proposal was not adopted. [[18.00 hours]] We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees, according to the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, to order this press as a committee to the economic guarantee committee? I've started the vote on order number 103 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 103. Of the 144 present for 123, versus 9. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order other committees to do so. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? I don't see anyone. There is therefore nothing to vote on. We have ordered this press to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Thank you to the Deputy Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish my first reading and item 68. According to the approved agenda, we have another of the first reading points, and that is item 23, that is the government bill amending Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, as amended, and some other laws. It's the House Press 460. We're at first reading. I see. Mr. Vondráček is reporting with an objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u20	I'm the one who found out about the junk control... The thing happened to me, not that I... I thought I was logged in. I voted, I'm sure I'll be on camera, I raised my hand. And I'm not logged in. And I sat in my seat. I really voted unambiguously on the previous vote. So I would like to question the vote. It's about the motion to dismiss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u21	I have no doubt that Mr Vondráček did so immediately. I didn't take any break between single points either. Mr Vondráček therefore objects to the minutes of the electronic vote. He's got a charter in his hand. So I take it back that I started point 23. I am going back to the previous point and we will vote on whether we accept Mr Radek Vondráček's objection to the registration of the result of the vote, when we voted on the rejection of the bill. Yes? No one is questioning the President's procedure. I have begun the vote by order number 104, and I ask who is in favour of accepting the objection. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 104. Of the 149 present for 109, versus 2. Objection received. We will therefore have to vote again on the proposal to reject the bill on road transport. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The number of applicants has stabilized, and I will therefore once again submit to the House a motion to reject the bill submitted by the Moravian-Silesian Region on road transport. I've started the vote with order number 105, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 105. Of the 143 Members present for 95 against 34. The motion was denied. I therefore ask the rapporteur and the House's apparatus outside to notify the Deputy Governor of the change of vote at least in writing, because he is no longer here. He was probably happy to leave, and we put a line over his budget under the Rules of Procedure Act that we kept. [[Laughing in the hall]] No one objected to the President's procedure. My colleague Miroslav Kalousek reports off the charts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u22	I recommend a more systemic approach. Perhaps if the House's leadership explained what the word means in our country immediately. Because the Deputy Director left without delay, and we then voted without delay on the objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-006-068.u23	You know, Mr. Ambassador, I'm in a difficult situation because I should be speaking not here, but I just remind you that this explains the Constitutional Court in some way, and in this respect, I asked you if you accept it as a permanent one, and no one objected. So, of course, we're going to process an opinion for the Moravian-Silesian Region. So let's go back to point 23. So I'm rebooting item 23.
