ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u1	123. Report on the situation in the field of internal security and public order in the Czech Republic in 2013 (as compared to 2012) and Report on the fulfilment of the tasks arising from the Crime Prevention Strategy in the Czech Republic for the years 2012 to 2015 for the year 2013 /house print 236/ This material will also be presented by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the relevant government resolutions, let me briefly state both the two materials, namely the annual materials relating to the area of internal security, first of all the Report on the situation in the Czech Republic in the field of internal security and public order in 2013, a comparison with the previous year, and a report on the fulfilment of the tasks arising from the Crime Prevention Strategy in the Czech Republic for the years 2012 to 2015, with an evaluation for 2013. The report on the situation in the field of internal security and public order in the Czech Republic provides information on the state and development of crime and the measures that should lead to its reduction. The Ministry of the Interior has presented it to the Government and the Chamber of Deputies each year since 1993. A total of 325 366 crimes were detected in the Czech Republic in 2013. There was an increase of 6.8 percent year-on-year, involving all the overall categories of crime, especially theft, break-ins. Its consequences include the amnesty of the President of the Republic announced on 1 January 2013. A total of 117 682 people were prosecuted and investigated. This is an increase of 4.1 percent, of which 52.6 percent were recidivists. The number and share of recidivists was the highest in the history of the Czech Republic in 2013. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Measures against relapse in crime so far have proved to be not entirely effective. Deciding and internationally coordinated countermeasures require a steep increase in the number of Vietnamese nationals who are perpetrators, particularly drug crime. In some localities, such as Duchcovsko, České Budějovice or Ostrava, there was an increase in interethnic tension during 2013. The result was a number of anti-Romani demonstrations. Solving tensions in socially sensitive locations is therefore one of the priorities of the government of the Czech Republic. Positive data for 2013 are still the best results of the Police of the Czech Republic in confiscating proceeds from crime during criminal proceedings. A total of CZK 8.5 billion was provided. Also, there is a positive lowest number of people, namely 583, who have been killed on the roads, it is, I almost do not want to say the best number, but it is so, since 1955. The development of crime in 2014 is also positive. Its previous increase has been eliminated and according to data for the first half, overall crime has even decreased by 8 percent. The report was discussed and taken into account by the Government, by Resolution No. 345 of 12 May 2014. The second material presented is the Report on the fulfilment of the tasks arising from the Crime Prevention Strategy for the Czech Republic from 2012 to 2015 with the fact that it is again an insight for 2013, which informs on the gradual fulfilment of the long-term objectives set out in this strategy, namely the reduction of the degree and severity of crime and the increase in the sense of security of citizens of the Czech Republic. It also addresses the reduction in or protection of the occurrence of delinquent activity in target groups. Effective and system of crime prevention and comprehensive approach in communities based on cooperation with municipalities, cooperation with the Police of the Czech Republic and other entities. [[unintelligible]] [[11.50 hours]] The priorities included in 2013 the issue of protecting vulnerable children and their families, increasing safety in socially excluded localities, and people at risk of social exclusion. A major topic was also the prevention of overdebtedness, especially in excluded localities and the prevention of crime against crime committed by so-called "crime." electronic media, e.g. I'm talking about cyber-shikan. At national level, methodological and financial support for inter-ministerial specified prevention projects continued, e.g. national coordination mechanism for the search for missing children, special interrogation rooms for child victims and witnesses, assistance and support programmes for victims in human trafficking. At regional and local level, the implementation of crime programs continued. In total, 258 projects in the field of social prevention, situational prevention, awareness of citizens were supported in 2013 and in 118 cities and municipalities. State aid for prevention was calculated in 2013 at less than 50 million. Crowns. The priorities included projects aimed at increasing security in socially excluded localities, and the most successful project was the crime prevention assistant, which was implemented in 46 municipalities in the Czech Republic. In these municipalities, a total of 146 assistants employed by local authorities were working with this subsidy project. Emphasis was placed on analytical and methodological activities to evaluate the effectiveness of crime prevention impacts. The Ministry of the Interior has developed a methodology for the development of security analyses, including methods and criteria for determining the degree and risk of crime prevention and the methodology for assessing the effects that these projects produce. We have also not forgotten the training of crime prevention workers. Three projects were prepared for implementation, which will be supported by the Ministry of the Interior projects. The projects concern increasing the competence of police officers, local authorities workers, in the area of crime prevention of interdisciplinary training of police officers to increase the safety of seniors and the creation of a uniform system in the field of e.g. financial literacy and prevention of over-indebtedness. Here we also expect a high degree of involvement of individual cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u3	I thank the Minister. The report was discussed by the Security Committee, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 236/1. And I am now asking the rapporteur, Mr Václav Klučka, to report on the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I think I will no longer comment on what the Minister said, because it fully describes the content of the negotiations of the Security Committee, and I will introduce you to resolution 41 of the Security Committee of the 11th meeting held on 4 September 2014 on the Report on the Situation of Internal Security and Public Order in the Czech Republic in 2013 and the Report on the fulfilment of the tasks arising from the Crime Prevention Strategy in the Czech Republic for the years 2012 to 2015 for 2013 (the House Print 236). [[Compared to 2012]] Committee on Security of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the introductory words of the First Deputy Minister of the Interior JUDr. Jiří Nováček, after the report by the rapporteur of the Ing Committee. Václav Klučka and after a general and detailed debate I. Notes Report on the situation in the field of internal security and public order in the Czech Republic in 2013 and Report on the fulfilment of the tasks arising from the Crime Prevention Strategy in the Czech Republic for the years 2012 to 2015 in 2013, [[Compared to 2012]] II. Instructs the President of the Security Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, III. asks the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic - which I have done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u5	I thank Mr Klučka. I am launching a general debate, which was the first to be heard by Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, all I have is material questions for the Minister. Of course, I know that the criminality of foreigners in the Czech Republic is rising, who have long-term, perhaps often permanent residence here. And right now, it's kind of an up-to-date problem. I would like to ask to what extent, because in the law on the residence of foreigners is the very one, I would say, a fundamental note, which is there today, that the revocation of a long-term residence permit can be provided that a foreigner could endanger the security of the Czech Republic or seriously disturb public order during his further stay in the territory. Basically, this condition is both in case of cancellation of long-term residence permits and in case of expiry of green card, blue card or permanent residence. And I would like to ask the Minister in a purely factual way, to what extent this parameter can be applied, or whether it is applied at all, as the police explain this parameter at all, because, exactly as the Minister said here, criminality is rising, whether it be Vietnamec or la drugs and others. And when I speak, I would say, even with the leaders of the police in the various regions, they confirm to me that the crime rate of foreigners is actually rising. That is why I want to ask, because in the Dawn movement, as we know, we are preparing amendments to laws and we have introduced one already, namely the amendment to the law on churches, where there is also talk again on the other hand about the fact that there must not be intolerance etc., and on the other hand we know that foreigners with a long-term stay here, e.g. Mr Alrawi, President of the Muslim Community of the Czech Republic, openly in the mosque during the sermon, says Czech - quote - that believers learn to hate not recognizing Alláh, i.e. to hate all non-believers in Islam - and at the same time in the following seconds, asks parents to beat children from ten years old if they do not want to pray to Alláh. In another sermon this person with a long stay in the territory of the Czech Republic asks, directly there they say, respectively. His colleague at the Brno mosque says, and the recordings are, of course, already published, that the Zionist State of Israel has no right to exist. It's a state recognized by the UN. So I'm asking in a matter of fact, whether it's the criminality of those Vietnamec or other foreigners, really, to what extent we can apply this inconspicuous double word - to endanger the security of the Czech Republic - or the inconspicuous four words or the five words - seriously disrupt public order. Because it seems to me that it's really not enough in the law. Because they have long-term stays here, often permanent. And obviously, there's no will to apply these sentences, or there's will, but there's trouble proving that it's actually happening. So my question is going this way. How many foreigners with long-term or permanent residences have applied this resolution in the law and have they really ended their long-term and permanent residence? How can this parameter be judged, which is now so serious in this law? And as the Minister and this government, if the will is this parameter, this inconspicuous sentence, in some way apply it more deeply or explain it or in some way give some explanation to it at the Ministry, some - now I dropped the word - comment or some justification for how to proceed with the application of this parameter. That is why we are at the church law, and we are also preparing an amendment to immigration law. We're extending it explicitly to look at it, even if they are already looking at it, but since it's not explicitly stated in the law, it's not explicitly given from our point of view who could possibly be responsible if there were any acts. So I'm talking about this moment. And, of course, in case the Minister doesn't know the answer here, that's fine. I'm not mad at all. Just please, if I could possibly get this or we could talk about it, because I think the aim is to ensure the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. So there's no pressure on the Minister. I would simply like to ask what the experience is at this point and what to do with it or what to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u7	Thank you, Mr Okamur. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. There is no such person, I am ending the general debate. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail. I ask who is reporting for a detailed debate. The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In the debate, a debater spoke. I think the Minister has notes on this, so the answer is most likely to be sent. As far as the motion for a resolution is concerned, I have read it and I am asking for its vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u9	Thank you. I'm ending the debate in detail. If no one else is reporting for a detailed debate, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking the Minister for the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly send the exact dates that Mr Okamura wants in writing. The status that the law allows, for example, and this is a ban on residence in municipalities, is really applied only on dozens of cases - in recent years. That's one of the possibilities that exists there. As for when a foreigner receives the status of permanent residence, there is a statement from the Police of the Czech Republic and services, which means that before he receives the status, he undergoes a relatively strong security scan. It's been in place for a long time. I do not think there is anything fundamental to change in this practice. The question is that then let's give it a trial or a judicial review in the event of a permanent stay or in the case of a ban on residence in the municipality takes up to three years, so there may be a need to look for some legislative instruments, so that this option, which the Czech State should have, is easier to apply and easier in terms of time. I am prepared to report to the House on all possible legislative proposals of the Government on this matter in the context of, say, an interpelation or a position report. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u11	Thank you. Although the debate has been closed, with priority rights, President Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u12	Thank you for your answer. I'd just like to clarify what our idea is. I think that foreigners who have long-term or permanent residence here would be worth it if they don't follow our rules and commit criminal acts to end their stay. That means I'm gonna be straight with you. After all, it is not possible that someone will come to the Czech Republic, basically apart from unions, it means marriage, it means family merging, basically they chose us, not that we chose them, that is, I think, a fundamental premise, they invited themselves here, not that we invited them here in overwhelming majority, so we would expect and I would expect them to comply with our rules and comply with our laws. This means that I would be very happy, and I say this quite frankly, that any foreigner with a long-term or permanent residence who is simply committing criminal activity here and from my point of view seriously disturbs the public order or threatens the security of the Czech Republic, but that is the vague wording that we simply end these stays so that it is a warning for the others to behave properly, because I do not know why a Czech ordinary citizen should pay for the fact that there are foreigners who do not even have citizenship who are committing some criminal activity. That is why I would really, frankly, like the Czech Republic to proceed in this way, because if we have a common goal to protect our citizens, citizens of the Czech Republic, who, by the way, are also our voters, unlike the others, I ask this question and ask what is the policy of the Czech Republic, the Government and the Minister in this regard, whether it is the will to really end the stays of foreign nationals who do not comply with our rules here. You say it takes three years. We know, I've been calling for this for years, that the Czech judicial system needs to be flexible. I am, and even during the Dawn movement, we have said many times a motion for a time-limited mandate of judges, so that they do not know for sure until retirement, and therefore we would also motivate them to do some increased activity, increased activity, because I agree that three years of waiting for a trial is what we all experience here in various matters, whether it is divorce or something else. This really has nothing to do with democracy. But I want to ask whether the Minister will have the will to prepare a legislative solution in this regard, or whether there is a political view based on existing legislation that we should end the stays of foreigners with permanent or long-term stays so that they are actually least motivated to commit the crime here, because the criminal activity of foreigners is rising in the Czech Republic. That's why I'm talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u13	Thank you, Mr Okamur. We have concluded a detailed debate, so we will vote on the resolution, as proposed by the rapporteur, Mr Václav Klučka. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on the resolution of the Security Committee, as Mr Václav Klučka said. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 43 vote, 159 Members are registered, for 123, against none. The motion was accepted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and pass on the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-005-123.u14	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue, and that is a point.
