ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-003-144.u1	144. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse (Lanzarote, 25 October 2007) /German press 457/ - second reading I ask that the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán take the floor and present the convention to us. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-003-144.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the Convention in question is a Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. It was opened for signature in October 2007, signed by all 47 Member States of the Council of Europe and 36 States have already deposited instruments of ratification. The Convention from the point of view of the Czech Republic, as far as its content is concerned, is already fully implemented, so its ratification will not give the Czech Republic any new obligations that it would have to fulfil by projecting something into its legal order. From our point of view, it is more about signing up internationally for this commitment. Europe is waiting for us to do this, wondering why it is taking so long. I think that there is no debate in this case as to the need to protect children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. The Convention contains no controversial point, and I ask the Chamber of Deputies to agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-003-144.u3	I thank the Minister. The resolution of the Foreign Committee and the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities was delivered as Parliamentary Presses 457/1 and 457/2. I now ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mrs Jana Fischerová, to comment on this Convention. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-003-144.u4	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I will be here as rapporteur to present a brief report on what took place at the meeting of the Foreign Committee on 19 May. There was also a debate in the presence of Deputy Minister of Justice Petr Jägr. In this way, specific questions were answered and, finally, a resolution was adopted by the conclusion of this meeting of the Foreign Committee, which was supported by all the votes. Perhaps I will mention that it was expected within the Czech Republic that everything be aligned with the criminal code. This is what happened, or we accepted it afterwards. And I can read you the resolution right now. Do you want me to wait for a detailed debate? [[He is turning to the President.]] So I'll read. [[The President: There will be no detail, please read it.]] Thank you so much for agreeing. The Chamber of Deputies and the Foreign Committee recommends this Chamber of Deputies The Chamber of Deputies adopts the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, Lanzarote, on 25 October 2007. It also instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and empowers the rapporteur of the Committee to report on the results of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-003-144.u5	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. I now ask the rapporteur of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities, Mrs Gabriela Pecková, for her comments. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-003-144.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to read the resolution of the Permanent Committee on Family, which has also taken up this press, and then I would like to say a few words on the Government's proposal to the Parliament of the Czech Republic for the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, Lanzarote, October 25, 2007. The Permanent Committee on Family, Equal Opportunity and National Minorities, following the reasoning of Deputy Minister of Justice Petr Jägr, recommends the report by Mrs Gabriela Pecková and after the debate The Chamber of Deputies adopts the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. The other two points are standard. If I may, I'm just as brief as ever. I am so glad that the Venezuelan Convention, after being signed in Strasbourg with such delay in September, got to the Chamber of Deputies so quickly to ratify. I think that the Czech Republic has done a little bit to correct its reputation, but that is not the point at all. First of all, this gives us an important tool in the fight against these crimes. The Minister has already rightly stated that our legal order already contains practically all points. But it is not exactly that we have nothing to improve in this field, because ratification alone will not be enough. We're gonna have to fill it up. Above all, points 6 to 9 concerning education in this area both for children themselves and for workers who come into contact with children, so there are still large reserves, and the Ministry of Education will need to do so. Then I could imagine a small amendment in the law to protect victims of crime. Otherwise, once again, I am very pleased that we can now proceed to ratification, and I would ask all of you to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-003-144.u7	I thank the rapporteur of the Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities. I apologize for the minor assassination of the Prime Minister. I am opening a debate that I am not registering any application for. If no one applies, I will conclude the debate and proceed with the vote on the motion for a resolution. I intend to say about the motion for a resolution because the resolution presented by both the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee and the rapporteur of the Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities is identical. We will vote on them as one resolution. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on the resolution as presented by the rapporteurs of the Foreign Committee and the Family Commission. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 194. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 150, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank the two rapporteurs and end the second reading of this press. The next item is the item number
