ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u1	214. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations The first refusal of a Member's response from the Minister Chovanec is to interpel Mr Zdeněk Ondráček on the question of the crime scene in the violent death of a man in Jihlava. This is an adjourned meeting of the House Press 517. I ask if Mr. Ondráček wants to speak. Minister Chovanec is excused. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u2	Mr President, colleagues, unfortunately, I have nothing left to do but ask for further interruptions again, because I simply cannot discuss this intervention without Minister Chovanec. It's the second time he hasn't had a chance to come. Perhaps next time and perhaps we will discuss this and improve the work of the Police of the Czech Republic with joint efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u3	So, a motion to interrupt this questioning. We will be voting in order number 75. We've got enough logged in. I've started the vote. Who agrees with the interruption of this reply to the written interpellation of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 75. From the present 77 to 65, against no one. The discussion of this response has been suspended, and I believe we will get to it when the Minister is present. The second rejected answer is the reply by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová to the interview of Mrs Jitka Chalánková on the future of Czech children in various foster families in Norway after reaching their age. Interpelation together with response shall be submitted as printing 518. The discussion of this interpelation has been suspended. I am opening the debate and asking Mrs Chalánková - yes, she wants to speak. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since the Minister was not present last time, I would like to remind myself once more. Madam Secretary, I disagreed with your response to my interpellation because you may have misunderstood my question. After all, in your own text, you admit that you don't know what I'm watching with my interpellation. My question was: Let's assume that Denis or David Michalákův will remain in foster care until he reaches age. They cannot be deprived of their Czech citizenship. What happens to them after they've reached age? What rights will they have in Norway as foreigners? What happens to them when the Norwegian state stops paying their foster parents generous allowances and benefits? Will foster parents have a maintenance obligation to them? Will they be entitled to security from the Norwegian State? And how will the Czech state react to them if they decide to return to the Czech Republic at the age of 18 and can't speak a word of Czech? Will the Czech State enforce civil obligations against them, such as the planned withdrawal obligation? Of course, on my part, it was just an exemplary account. The point of my question is that citizenship cannot be chosen. He's born with him, and it's hard to change them. We carry our nationality with us mostly voluntarily, but it does not work that everyone is a national of the state in which it is located. People are very mobile today, but citizenship is a union that is relatively permanent and long-term. [[9.10 hours]] Its essence is loyalty to its country. Citizenship is not just about rights for citizens, but also about responsibilities. Thus, Denis and David will still be foreigners in Norway at 18 years of age. Even if they were to obtain, either voluntarily or against their will, Norwegian citizenship, it would not mean that they would lose Czech citizenship. They cannot be deprived of this in any way by the Norwegian State, because Norway is not allowed to decide on Czech nationality. It doesn't work so easily that you automatically lose your previous citizenship by earning one. That is why there are so many people with double or multiple citizenship, and that is why there are people without citizenship. Double citizenship then leads to legal schizophrenia and conflict of interest. For example, Minister Dienstbier is obliged to maintain his loyalty to both the Czech Republic and the United States of America, for being a citizen of the United States of America and for being a citizen of the United States of America. You say in your reply that the possible return of the already aged boys to the Czech Republic would be a matter of considering and weighing all circumstances, including considering language equipment. So you yourself suggest that Denis and David in Norway will gradually forget, if it has not already happened, the Czech language, and that logically it will limit their choice. With its approach, Norway effectively nationalizes Czech nationals of Czech nationality and puts pressure on them to become Nor in their adulthood. This is unfair not only to them, but also to the Czech Republic. You correctly state that it is everyone's business to decide which country he wants to live in. This results from constitutionally and internationally guaranteed freedom of residence. This right undoubtedly applies to minors, only on their behalf are the persons responsible for them. My parents' rights towards Denis and David are still with Mrs Michaláková and Mrs Michaláková repeatedly indicated that she wants children to live and grow up in the Czech Republic and under Czech jurisdiction. Norway, however, effectively prevents it from exercising this parental right. These are briefly the reasons why I disagree with the response to my interpelation. I asked her to complete her work, and in particular regarding the question of the legal status of Denis and David with regard to the Czech Republic, not only with regard to their rights but also with regard to their obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u5	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. The answer was prepared by Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Secretary Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of Parliament, I am forced to say that even after familiarising myself with the content of the tapestry of the debate of 9 July, I have not fully understood the objective of Mrs Chalánková's interpelation. From the point of view of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, I don't know what I would add more. I believe that the essence of our misunderstanding is perhaps a fundamental approach to the importance of citizenship in human life. We are all aware that the civil union is increasingly free in our more and more globalizing world, and this tendency reflects not only our law but also in other countries, and a number of legal institutes are increasingly associated with normal residence rather than citizenship. The role of citizenship is so significantly weakening. I would like to repeat here that both parents of the Michalákův brothers voluntarily chose to live in Norway. Daddy is already in quotation marks old emigrant, mom didn't arrive until 1989. Both of these boys were born in Norway, and they lived there their whole lives. I believe that the questions raised by the Member point to a debate on citizenship, to which they are called by the ministers of the interior, foreign affairs, or the Minister of Human Rights mentioned here. And it's a bit of an academic debate for me personally. I would like to add some rather important information. At this point, I would like to stress that the diplomatic and other efforts that the national authorities of this country have made and are making in the case of Michalákův's are completely non-standard, above-standard. I believe that the Member here represents the position of the mother of the boys and considers it to be the only right one, while protecting herself with citizenship. But here's another player in this case is a father who also claims his rights. At the same time, there is an interest that we would all of us, as we are here, as we represent the highest state institutions, the duty to reflect, and that is the so-called best interest of children, which I have heard quite little from the Member's mouth. And again, I would really like to turn very strongly against those repeated and, in my opinion, completely unjustified statements by the Member about the inaction of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the case of the Michalákův brothers. To begin with, it is necessary for everyone here to stress that the Office for International Child Protection advises all their clients as standard how to proceed in these cases. He is able to help them write relevant requests, help them fill out various forms, but he cannot do one thing. He cannot do certain tasks for these people, such as filing requests for trial or other local authorities in a foreign country. That's the move that the family, whatever it is, has to do on their own. And I'm going to give you some crucial information that shows what activities our office has been developing, what recommendations it has formulated, but the family hasn't used them. And I would like to point out that it is very likely that this inactivity, which in many cases lasts all those four years, has and has had a negative impact on the whole case from the point of view of the Norwegian authorities. First, the Michalákův family - and now I'm talking about my mother, my aunt, my sister's mother, and my grandfather's mother's father - turned to the office in autumn 2011, where the office began to negotiate with our representation in Norway. At the beginning of the case, the family was repeatedly called upon to make official proposals to the competent authorities either to entrust the brothers to the foster care of the aunt or to contact the aunt with the children, or to contact the grandfather with the children, which would clearly show the interest of the biological family. No such proposal has been filed with the Norwegian authority for four years. This means that this inactivity can lead the Norwegian authorities to believe that a wider biological family simply does not care for the boy. Secondly, those family members who live in the Czech Republic were repeatedly offered free legal assistance for driving in Norway - this, in turn, concerns their aunt and grandfather. They have not taken advantage of this assistance for four years, that is, legal aid, a lawyer who would help them make these proposals for contact with them there in Norway. Thirdly, the family has been repeatedly called upon to use standard official channels in addition to criticizing the relevant Barnevern and officially complaining about the process of this organization to the superior authorities. Once again, we have no conclusive information that Mrs Michaláková or her attorneys have officially complained about Barnevern's progress. Fourth, from the very beginning, the Office for International Legal Protection has offered to the family that it will provide guarantees to the Norwegian authorities that if the boys are transferred to the Czech Republic, they will have a secure apartment, services, child care, etc., that the Office will provide additional evidence that they will simply guarantee to Nor that everything is okay here in the Czech Republic. [[9.20 hours]] In fact, in four years' time, the family did not use this service again, only last month did the first reaction appear here, when the family first identified some organizations that would care for the children here, who would look after them, including the pediatrician. That means almost all those four years that family hasn't done this. Finally, I would like to say that I am fascinated by the commitment made by Mrs Chalánková to this case, when she deals with other cases at least. I know of three specific cases where one of the helpless parents turned to the Member with his cross-border case, but I did not notice any public activity to support these cases. Also, as far as I know, the Member was interested in and interested in some cases of child collection in the UK, Czech children, but I did not notice, again, that the Member would fight for these children, because they seem to be cases that are less media-attractive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u7	Mrs Chalánková wants to speak further. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u8	I'm sure I'll respond. I would like to point out to the Minister that I have been involved in this case since the turn of 2013-2014. Since then, I have been able to comment on my activities. If the Minister spoke of the fact that citizenship in human life and currently in the globalizing world is losing its meaning, I believe that this is not the right way and that there may also be a moment in the international situation that is now happening to us in Europe, that it is not and will not be. That's my opinion, and I think I'm right. We may have a different position on the sides of the ideal anchoring, but I believe that is the case. According to various international legal standards, especially under private international law, it is clear that the mother and children have a permanent residence in Hodonín, even though they have their usual residence abroad, they are covered by the Institute of Citizenship of the Czech Republic. You're talking about the family volunteering in Norway, but the boys were raised bilingually with their parents. They really spoke both languages, both Czech and Norwegian, and given how drastic methods when moving children into foster families and how low the frequency of these visits can be meeting with parents, so it is clear that this language is disappearing. The application for Czech teaching also ended quite infamously. The boys also spent their holidays at Grandpa and Grandma's in Hodonín. You are right that it is important and that the entire case does not concern only your department, in which I fully agree with you, Madam Secretary. We also asked, on the one hand, for the creation of a working group, where representatives of individual ministries and offices, including the Office of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister's office, would be represented in order to pass on information and avoid any information noise. But I will present these steps and these ideas at the press conference at 13:00 today, because it is these days that the Regional Commission in Norway and some non-standard steps are under way, but I will not comment directly, but I will talk about what should be done next. You say that diplomatic efforts in this case are above standard and that we defend only the interests of mommy. I know that mom's interests and children's interests are connected containers. My father didn't turn to me for help. As far as I know, he was the one who was initially suspected of child abuse, although all of this was delayed by the police, so it was supposedly him. My maminka divorced him, changed her circumstances, and now she asks to return her children to her care and wants to prove how she changed the conditions in her life. The interests of parents, biological parents, and children are connected vessels, and if modern ideas of foster family care have a different idea, I will not give up on my attitude. The child's best interest must be defended, but it is also necessary to declare what the child's best interest is. I believe that, in the absence of any proof, but none that mommy would hurt children in any way, I believe that taking children away from a biological mother will not really be the best interest of the child. It is true that we recorded in the media at the beginning of the year that the Minister said that the children would also be taken away in the Czech Republic. The Bureau lives on the knowledge of the file. I can assure you, Madam Secretary, that I have full access to the file because I am the mother's agent and I have the power of attorney, and I believe that this has not been fair to Mom and this family. You are talking about the fact that I have criticized and not familiarized myself with other actions of the Office for International Children's Protection. It's not like that. I've been in contact with the Director of the Kapitán, I've also visited this office, I've been familiar with not only the file, but also the other cases he leads there, and we've been through some of them exemplaryly to get to know them modelly, and we've been dealing with systemic steps. If you're talking about families in the UK, I'm still in contact with some of the workers of the social-law protection of children in the Czech Republic who have turned to me, but the situation is a little different because if proceedings are taking place in the UK, there is a possibility for the Czech Republic to get to know the file in some way. It is true that even the courts in the UK do not take the Czech authorities so seriously. He is also the difference whether there are disputes between parents, a cross-border dispute, where one parent is Czech citizenship and the other is foreign, and when both are abroad. Well, that's settled with the headmaster of the Kapitán. As far as Mommy is concerned, she has many things and applications to make herself, so of course she did. Some were quite lost for administrative reasons, but Grandfather asked for contact with children. As far as the aunt and the wider family are concerned that they should have been entrusted with the children, I would like to point out to the Minister that Norway is not in any way issuing in its legislation children in its territory or in the care of a wider family in the territory of another State. This option is out of the question. Although mommy was pushed to her by the Office for International Children's Protection, from the Norwegian law's point of view, this is absolutely nonsense. The mother also had a Norwegian lawyer from the state who was free of charge for a whole year. This Norwegian lawyer was able to study the file for a year, because she was probably free of charge for her mother, and she didn't come to anything. That is why we have decided to set up a petition committee and a petition event to help so that the mother can use other lawyers who are involved in this case and in this case represent Mommy. I also asked through the Office for International Children's Protection for the creation of so-called. Case conference. I will also introduce everyone to this request at today's press conference at 13:00. There are several other completely unfulfilled requests from Barnevern. You are correct in saying that the mother has already asked the Office for International Children's Protection to state guarantees that she will look after the mother and children if they find themselves in the Czech Republic. This is because the mother originally asked for an institution of social law to protect children in Hodonín, and these authorities gave her full consent to knowing the mother, knowing the wider family, if the children were to find themselves here, they were fully competent and capable of representing and caring for the mother. But since this has not been accepted, he has expressed himself as a guarantor of the Office for International Children's Protection. I do not want to comment more on this today, because the survey of the Regional Commission is under way these days and I would not want to jeopardize their outcome in any way. But what information I have, I'll announce publicly at the press conference at 1:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u9	Next, the debate is continued by Mr Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues. I don't want to discuss this case in detail. I would just like to appreciate the enormous efforts of Jitka Chalánková, who has devoted herself to this case. I don't know, of course, and none of us know how this is gonna end, but maybe it's a good step to keep such cases from happening again. In this context, I am terribly sorry about what the Minister said at the end of her reply. Madam Secretary, either you, if you were preparing the answer yourself, or someone who prepared it for you, in that conclusion, in the infamous Mrs Chalánková, was very unfair, and your answer at the end was very stupid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u11	Thank you. Who's next in the debate? If no one, I ask my colleague Chalánková what she is proposing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u12	As I said before, we can end this conversation because I will have a press conference and I will announce everything else there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u13	So you're not proposing a resolution, and we could end the press 518. I'm gonna ask for an exchange for a second.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u14	Let's keep going. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Vojtěch Filip to the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán in the case of legal delays in the joint ownership proceedings, press 529. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u15	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I have interrogated Minister Pelikán to examine the issue of delay in a particular trial and to express my disagreement with the answer. The minister then answered me personally, and I just have to say that I was satisfied with the minister's oral response afterwards, because he was able to find a way in that hierarchy of district and county courts to verify the file so that it would not be dragged out. I note that the matter has been going on for ten years, and according to the case law of our Supreme Court, any delays in the proceedings are a matter which the State must then replace under Law 82/1998, and here I would like to thank the Minister for his supplementary reply, which he gave me personally, and I therefore do not propose any resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u16	Thank you. I will ask if anyone wants to speak in the debate. This is not the case, in which case we can end this interpelation because the petitioner was satisfied and did not propose a resolution. And I'll hand over the meeting proceedings again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u17	We will continue with the response of the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček, who responded to Mrs Radka Maxová's interpellation with regard to the categorization of pharmacies in small municipalities, specifically the pharmacy Mladá Vožice. Interpelations together with response were submitted as 532 printing. I'm opening the debate. The Minister is excused, Mrs Maxová is absent. Therefore, under the Rules of Procedure Act, we will no longer deal with it. We will continue and it is an interpelation when former Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek responded to Mr Rostislav Vyzula's interpelation on the process of evaluating research infrastructures in the Czech Republic, updating the travel map of research infrastructures and focusing on infrastructure for clinical research. Interpelation with response was submitted as a printing of 540. I am opening the debate and the Member is reporting for the debate. The Minister of Education is present. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u18	Mr President, thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to return after a few months to the question of the evaluation of research infrastructures submitted to the Government on 25 May this year and where the Government also approved Resolution No. 381, approving the updating of the Czech Tourist Map of Large Infrastructures for Research, Experimental Development and Innovation, achieved in Part 3 of Material No. 402/15, and orders the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports to develop so-called. analysis of the landscape of research infrastructures. I would like to address the matter of Minister Chládek's reply in my interpellation. Madam Secretary came to this by being appointed to office. Nevertheless, I would like to continue this interpellation in order to clarify and correct some irregularities in this area. First - the definition and support of infrastructure is undoubtedly a key factor in ensuring and stability of research and innovation in all areas of science. This is true, however, also in medicine, where expectations of both professional and lay public are stable and significant. The number of research projects in the Czech Republic from the field of medicine is hundreds of years old and many of them require the stability of infrastructures, not only new but also already established and used. Infrastructure type - I will now say a few abbreviations - BBMRI, it is biobanking, or EATRIS, it is translation research, or CZECRIN, it is clinical research on human subjects - created by MŠMT activity as priority projects listed in the travel map of the Czech Republic of major infrastructures for research, experimental development and innovation in the field of biomedicine in order to create knowledge, research, methodological and service support for carrying out translation and clinical research. Just for the record - The European Strategic Forum for Research Infrastructure established the field of infrastructure for biological and medical sciences and the Ministry of Education somehow made it a field of biomedicine. What, like there's some kind of technomedicine? My written interpelation of 28 April this year asked a few questions and I would briefly sum them up in parallel with the answers I received 27. 5th of this year. The first question was: what were the rules and criteria for the selection of members of the relevant field panel of the international evaluation committee, especially in relation to infrastructures with clinical overlaps - BBMRI, EATRIS etc.? Who designed them and approved them? Answer: It was a very general justification and not a justification for Mr Ing's conflict of interest. Petr Šeda from the Microbiological Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, who is among other things a member of one of these infrastructures. A clear conflict of interest, then. Another question was asked: Has the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic been addressed in terms of delegation of a representative with expertise in the clinical area? No answer. Next question: One of the experts from the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic was involved in the so-called "Participation." landscape analysis in the field of biomedicine, which material is verbally shielded? No answer. I'm asking you a little bit further. The BBMRI project, which is therefore a matter of biobanking - to bring it a little closer to you - is basically a collection of biological material to determine in the future different sensitivity to treatment, research, genetic profiling, etc., which is basically the basis of future science in medicine, which is dealt with by leading institutions in the world. I merely note that five such centres have been established in the United States, which are spread throughout the United States, in which they place enormous resources to sustain these projects, because it is actually the future of medicine. And the way we treat it is that we do not support this project until the next period and we want it to make money on its own right now. Why would he be in a category that's supposed to earn money? I don't get it yet. [[9.40 hours]] Next question: Why did the government approve at its meeting 25. 5th of this year's resolution No 381, as I've named it, so-called. travel maps of the Czech Republic of large infrastructure for research, where are also evaluated A1 to A4? Just to clarify. The government's approval of some travel maps is perfectly logical and normal. But part of the table I have here is also the evaluation of all infrastructures that should be supported. They're listed, costs are allocated. And all these ratings are A's. I mean, you'd think they had more support. But they already have A1 through A4 ratings, and they are already assuming that only A1 and A2 will have financial support, while others will not. And all I care about is why the evaluation was already in this approval. It does not seem entirely logical that Minister Chládek gave this approval just before his appeal. I understand he couldn't have known. But it seems to me that it was all done too quickly, just so that no one would notice too much, so that in the amount of work the government has to do to make this work. I keep asking. Why is there no report from the Ministry of Health's observations when it comes to clinical medicine? How is it possible that it is just a coincidence that most of the money from the total proposal of around CZK 4 billion - CZK 4 billion - goes into these projects - goes only to the Academy of Sciences? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Education, in cooperation with the Minister of Health, to open negotiations without delay on the provision of the necessary funds for the infrastructure of clinical research in the planned period 2016 to 2022 and to lay down rules on the allocation of funds between biological sciences and medical sciences so that there is no situation where research on mouse models is presented to the Government of the Czech Republic as a priority and therefore more necessary than clinical research carried out by competent bodies - these are faculty hospitals, specialised institutes - on patient material and for their needs. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister to include in these rules the clear professional involvement of the Ministry of Health's Ministry of Activities Planning, Financial Planning, Continuous and Final Expert Evaluations, Evaluations, Panels of evaluators capable of assessing the clinical aspects of research activities and so on. That's all for now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u19	I thank Mr Vyzula, and before I give the floor to the Minister, I will say an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Ivan Pilný apologizes within 11 hours, Minister Dienstbier - not attending the whole session today for work reasons. Mr Holík apologizes from 9 to 13 a.m., as well as Mr Krákora apologizes from 9 to 13 a.m. and until 11 a.m. for personal reasons, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský a.m. and Mr Plzák from 9 to 10.30 for working reasons. We will now proceed. The Minister of Education will respond to Mr Vyzula's rejection of his response to the interpelation. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to respond to Mr Vyzula. I will start a little bit more generally, because some of the information from which the Member was based has made changes in recent months and it is possible that the addition to this information on my part will make him more satisfied with the Ministry of Education. The first thing concerns large scientific infrastructures and the evaluation divided into several degrees A - A1, A2, A3 etc. This is a matter that has been revised by the Ministry of Education. In September, one of September's governments will discuss the updated material called travel maps and this will expect to be supported in the same way by all infrastructures classified in all these categories, because, of course, the classic classification with no division into one, two, three within A does not count. That means all major infrastructure will be supported. With regard to securing funding under the medium-term perspective, I am ready to open a debate on medium-term prospects in cooperation with the Vice-President of the Government for science, research and innovation, in particular, because of the material relating to large infrastructures that I presented to the Government about 14 days ago, and I can, of course, provide this material to Mr Vyzula, it follows that in 2017, we lack roughly 800 million for the sustainability of large infrastructures. This matter will also be dealt with. As far as cooperation with the Ministry of Health is concerned, without being a specialist in the area, I also, for example, for such infrastructures as the FNUSA, assume much closer cooperation between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health than it has been so far. On this issue, I will therefore admit that I am primarily planning to set up more intensive communication after the bureaucratic and ministerial level between the two ministries. As far as the unjustified distinction or underappreciation of importance between biological science and medical science is concerned, I believe, and I hope that I understand it correctly that just that all scientific infrastructures at all levels of A, that is, all those who have received an A, will be supported to the same degree and will have the same opportunity to compete for, for example, European funds, will remove certain doubts of Mr Vyzula linked to this matter. Perhaps one last mention of the issue of conflict of interest. I would like to say to you, honourable Members, that we really have big problems with ensuring enough experts in the field of large scientific infrastructures. It's due to a high degree of specialization of these experts. However, we are trying, of course, to choose from the most diverse waters, and so we are reaching into the foreign waters of academics and others, in order to ensure the differentiation of these experts and, of course, to reduce the risk of conflict of interest. Even so, I can assure you that if the expert is someone who is involved in some, perhaps even remotely in some of the major scientific infrastructures, I can assure you that there are, of course, tools within the control mechanisms and layering of the various mechanisms of the Ministry of Education, which can verify possible conflicts of interest and prevent it, in a last resort, even at the initiative of externally, if there is doubt with other participants in large infrastructures. So much on my part briefly. So I would just sum up that I am prepared to complete the previous minister's written interpellation, to supplement the documents that have been submitted to the government over the last two months on the subject of major infrastructures. The travel map will be updated in September, and the funds will be dealt with immediately following this in the medium term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u21	I thank the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. I ask, Mr Member, an additional one in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have nothing to add to the debate. I just kind of figured the exchange of ministers was right. [[With a smile.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u23	Thank you. This interpelation is over. I'll ask the Prime Minister again if he can relieve me for a moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u24	Let's keep going. Interpelation number 6 is the interpelation of Vice-President Filip again to the Minister of Justice, Mr Robert Pelikán, and it is in the constitutionality of the position of the Constitutional Court 501 05 of 1. 11. 2005 and Melantrich, print 550. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u25	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will not be so forthcoming with Minister Pelikán this time because this is a matter which, I would say, has a different dimension. Who among you has read the print 550, you know that this is a question of the Melantrich building on Wenceslas Square and that it is not a dispute about restitution or the return of property on this matter. The point is that it is the continuing ownership and decision-making of the Czech courts in this regard, whether it be first-degree courts, second-degree courts or appeals, and the Constitutional Court has not acted correctly in this respect in my view. In the end, the votum separatum, i.e. the different position of certain judges of the Constitutional Court, such as Senator Wagnerová and so on, is testifying to this. And I don't want to hold up the Chamber of Deputies with all these changes. My point is that if the stock company law, the 1950s law, was applicable throughout the period, there was an opportunity to find specific shares in the archives of Melantrich, and those 90-year-old gentlemen came to the archives and brought specific shares to the general meeting, they proved that they were heirs of the shares, and the inheritance proceedings were clear that we had a situation where, in fact, the judicial system or, to be more precise, the judicial system is unequal to individual entities. That is why I think I cannot be satisfied with the Minister of Justice's reply, although he tried to describe the situation honestly, frankly, and the Ministry has written up a sort of sum of how the various institutions have progressed on this matter, how the shareholders have acted, both the former and the current, and what has happened. What's the big deal? That it is a sale or a property shift of a building that has value expressed in hundreds of millions, and there are sales for CZK 1,700,000. For that you won't buy, forgive me, not even a cabin in Lipno, let alone a building in Wenceslas Square. And for example, I'm wondering, why wasn't the state's attorney's office active in this situation? Why didn't the police do it on a case-by-case basis? In this respect, therefore, it is not left to those who seek to make certain uniform decisions against this public limited company, because I note that in other cases, for other assets requested by this public limited company, the courts have decided on a lasting property relationship and Melantrich was able to take possession of the property, whether it is the forests of Pardubick or elsewhere. In this regard, then, when I have read the matter, I must say that I must look for a way in which the decision made by the Constitutional Court could be changed. In this respect, therefore, this is essentially a procedure which can be brought before the European Court of Justice or the European Court of Justice. The European Court of Human Rights, and here at the European Court of Human Rights, may be opposed to a breach of the Convention and a description of the factual background. Unfortunately, in this respect, the Czech state authorities are not active and I basically call on the Minister to be active in my interpellation. And that answer does not satisfy me, and I basically want a new one with the fact that I want it to be limited by the possibilities that the Ministry of Justice has - and they are not very big, I recognise that in this respect the executive entry into the system's negotiations is significantly limited. It's a good thing it's severely limited, I'm not questioning it at all. But the active approach of the highest administrative authorities of the state, for example, to the European institutions could help here, including possible contact with the Czech Commissioner - by the way, the Czech Commissioner for Justice and Justice - in the European Commission, Mrs Jourová. And, of course, against the European Court of Human Rights. That's why I turned down the answer. The Minister knows that I am not imagining that there is a legal opinion other than that of the Czech Constitutional Court, which is why I am asking him to take an active approach to this matter. If I do not agree to his reply here at the plenary, I will demand that he revise his reply on the basis of the request of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u26	Thank you, too, Mr Vice-President. The Minister is about to answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that I will not be satisfied in my oral response to the Member and colleague either. First of all, the Ministry of Justice does not have any instruments at all towards the Constitutional Court. If he decides something by the Constitutional Court plenary, the Ministry of Justice has no choice but to respect it whether he likes it or not. The Member is right when he mentions that there is another court on the Constitutional Court in a sense, that is the European Court of Human Rights. However, it is not only the Ministry of Justice's task, but it is not within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice to bring the matter to this court. On the contrary, the Ministry of Justice will represent the other side in such a possible dispute. It will be forced again, no matter what we think of it, to defend the procedures of the Czech Republic, all its institutions, including the Constitutional Court. So my answer and my advice is, in accordance with your rights, let the alleged damage turn to the European Court of Human Rights and see what it tells us. When I try to return to the substance of the matter for a moment, in a nutshell - the Member explained it quite well - the point is that in addition to the restitution rules that we set here, at some point another way appeared to get back to the property in fact, that it appeared somewhere in the archives or in the attic or in a box of old shares, because formally it happened that the joint stock company had never been declared extinct, so formally she always existed and formally no one bothered to expropriate it, so she also formally owned the property all the time. So at first glance, all you had to do was come up and say, "I'm still here, the property's still mine, so give it to me! In fact, some courts did, and others did not. And the Constitutional Court has now united the approach so that it is not appropriate and will not be. [[10.00 hours]] I understand the Member if he finds this to be an injustice against those whom he has not been granted and will not be, if they look at the situation of those to whom he has been granted. But that's the way it is in unifying the caselaw in the end, unfortunately. It's something that's rightfully necessary and irresistible. My personal opinion is that the Constitutional Court made the right decision this time. I am convinced that the bond that existed between the property and those persons is remote and truly purely formal. How do those who didn't hide the worthless paper in that box come back, unaware that one day it would be possible to turn it back into a house on Wenceslas Square? So my answer will be sincere in this. I can't do anything about it, I really don't want to do anything about it. I understand the situation of these people, I understand that they feel it's wrong, but I'm afraid that if the Constitutional Court decided the other way around, it might be even more wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u28	Thank you, Minister. I wonder if anyone is reporting for the debate. Vice-President. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u29	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your sincere words to the Minister of Justice for not wanting to do anything about this. He answered what he wrote to me. But, you know, I could understand that. I would also accept this if it were not for change, a complete change in the position of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. I do not want to read the summary of the complaint that was written by the Court of Human Rights, filed by Melantrich, a. s., for the graphic industry and publishing industry in Prague, and I do not want to bother the Chamber of Deputies in any way to discuss what Article 35 of the European Convention is and how the Czech Constitutional Court stands up for it. But what really bothers me. When the complainant sought the protection of his right before the national court by an action for the determination of ownership of the property in question, the complainant's actions were, however, rejected without examining the question of the existence and termination of the complainant's right of ownership in a territorial manner, in the absence of an urgent legal interest of the complainant in the protection of ownership... If, in principle, it was after the adoption of restitution laws and privatization regulations on the examination or protection of the right of ownership at a different level than it was here until 1989, respectively. 1990, 1991, so we have to say that it is not possible to apply claims for property taken away on the basis of restitution rules that were adopted in the Czech Republic immediately after the end of the previous regime. The very existence of these rules, according to national courts, creates an obstacle to the protection of their rights by persons who are not authorised persons within the meaning of restitution rules. But why did the Stock Companies Act be amended in 1950? Where's the scale of the discount? If we admit these things, we're going to dig into a situation where we're going to look for a discount in technical subjects. And I don't think that's right. The latter applies both in cases where the right of ownership was withdrawn and in cases where the right of ownership was formally retained, however, there was a factual impediment to the control of the owner of the property. Here, let's face it, Melantrich has always been ruled by those who have declared themselves legal successors of the Czech Socialist Party, then Socialist. So in this regard, even the break of that right was not such that in fact those who claimed to be legal successors would not apply it. Which is a serious matter. Now, if we're going to straighten out these property ratios - and here we're talking about what's going to be returned, I'm having a problem with what was stolen after 1990, if we're going to call it going to be restitution to stand back, not nationalization, but restitution to state... Because they're crimes! This is the removal of property to whom the property has never actually been taken. That's the serious problem. And in this respect, I refer to the votum separatum that was there. And if the State's free reasoning as to the content and scope of the restitution rules was interpreted by the Constitutional Court in such a way that only the selected persons were entitled to claim the restoration of ownership, then why the Constitutional Court changed the situation and the protection of the persons to whom this benefit, if you wish, was granted, was not given to others, was weakened, but not affected, was left to rely on protection through general regulations. Following the adoption of the opinion of the Constitutional Court, the caselaw of the national courts has changed completely and all claims have been rejected without further justification that the persons claiming judicial protection are in fact circumventing the restitution rules. So that's the discount rate, the restitution rule? Is it that when someone's right has not been revoked, the other person who is now granted will actually take possession, and the one who actually was the owner is not entitled to that? Well, in that regard, don't be mad at me, I can't but demand some activity from the state authorities. I understand what the Minister said. But yet I am not satisfied with that, for example. In selling the property, nobody's been stopped, especially the police and the prosecutor's office, and the Home Secretary isn't here, so I'm just gonna talk about the prosecutor's office... Why didn't someone at the D.A.'s office, whether the Chief here in Prague or the Supreme Attorney's office, stop that the property was sold for 1.5 million if it was worth almost a billion? You know, that sounds like a screaming injustice to me if I'm to say it in poetic words. And I'm convinced that we'll either admit here that nothing else, that some kind of restitutional dot has occurred here, that no one will get anything, and if anyone asks, Pacholíček already has the Smolíček, forgive me for this folk expression. But then, if we are in parliamentary democracy, at least here we have to say something that has to be said, a resolution, or something. It's the law. We're still here after 25 years to deepen the restitution process. Where will he be stopped? How is it that courts issue land that is under construction, even though the law, which is a donation law for churches and religious societies, says that the land is not being issued but is being replaced? And the compensation is paid by the state from the state budget. But the courts continue to judge against what is written here that restitution takes precedence. How can a restitution rule take precedence when the law says it's not being issued? So what position are we in towards one entity - and now I'm talking about two legal entities? The breach, whether or not a legal person can restitute, is a fatal matter! If they were individuals, we were still talking about individuals, their rights. Once we have established legal entities here, not just municipalities, by law 127/1990 Coll., we have of course admitted to abandoning this Section 28 of the Land Law and, in this respect, we have come to a situation where it can come, forgive me, the organization which was declared hostile after 1945, which according to the Decree was removed property, and say - but I have the property, I want it. Because you were handing over this legal person who was no better off after 1945. [[10.10 hours]] That's a serious problem we're bringing in. I would like us to be active and say, yes, in the process of selling the privatization of property, it was that the rights of the original owners had been violated, who had never lost the ownership. And if it was performed through first a joint-stock company Melantrich, a joint-stock company for the graphic industry and publishing industry, or through the authorities of the Czechoslovak Socialist Party, that is basically indifferent to me, because if the authorities respected it then, they should have respected it even after 1990. And that's the point of my rejection. And I ask that at least the Ministry of Justice process an overview of how we are going to build on this next time and whether it is even ready to present here a bill that will say a restitution dot in the Czech Republic - no longer anything, it is no longer possible to go beyond the fact that in parliamentary democracy Parliament is saying that nothing else is possible, because we would even call into question the rights sustained, which are part of the Civil Code. Or if you want, we'll have here, forgive me, a permanent property coup, which will be done here depending on how you get a majority or a willing judge who decides against, not a free-thinking judge - I don't question the independence of the courts at all, the courts are independent, but the judges are bound by the law. And we are a parliamentary democracy, not a judicial state. So in this respect, I'd like there to be a unified procedure. I therefore propose that the Chamber of Deputies reject the Minister of Justice's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u30	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Before we continue the debate, I will read two note cards. Today, from 11.30 to 13 o'clock, Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologizes and today from 14 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Jiří Zlatuška apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Zahradník is also enrolled in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u31	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am also familiar with this problem. Unfortunately, I can't talk about him as legally as Dr. Filip, the lawyer, Vice-President of our House. However, I would like to say a few words about it. The problem of Melantrich's stock company with the exact name mentioned by the Vice-President in his speech is a problem which is, of course, complex and has been discussed at different levels of our state for a long time. The Minister has made it quite clear, and unfortunately I have to say so strictly and irreversibly that I would not want to be in the shoes of those people who are trying to acquire their rights, which they believe are legitimate, regular, and that they have a duty to enforce their rights and to pursue them. It is their belief that is strong, among other things, because there is a precedent that has been addressed here. Perhaps I would remind you again that next to Melantrich, a. s., there was a similar joint-stock company with a similar profile, with a similar history, a joint-stock company Target, whose property was a building called the People's House. This question has been resolved. The problem was solved and the property was returned. He was returned to the Czech Social Democratic Party, which uses it today. To a man who looks at this, there is nothing else to offer but to remember the old Latin proverb quod licet iovi, non licet bavi, which we present to the Czech what is permitted to God, is not allowed to a ox. So I would like to see the state, after all, look at the whole problem once more through its representative, the Minister, and try to have a contextual perspective, so that one thing be resolved and closed, let's say, also accepted by the public, is sometimes called into question, but I think it is therefore irreversible, and it is solved in a similar way that the problem of Melantrich is solved in a similar way to the problem of the Objective. That is what I would like to address the Minister with, and I therefore think that it is possible to support on my part the proposal that Vice-President Filip has tabled, that is to say, with the Minister's reply to express dissatisfaction in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u32	I thank Mr Zahradník. Mr. Attorney General reporting. Before taking the floor, I would ask the person who did not write his name and just signed up and wants to interpel the Prime Minister in the matter of the Holeš industrial zone to publish his name, because, of course, his signature of the registration verifiers cannot identify him and cannot identify him in the name of a particular Member. When he logged in, he would, of course, be placed in the draw order. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u33	Mr President, honourable Members, I do not want to have a debate circularly, and I would like to repeat myself in many ways. If you accept the resolution that you are proposing, I confess that I do not know what to do about it. I've been trying to explain to you that there's nothing in my jurisdiction that could touch this case in any way. If you find anything, I'm prepared to submit to the will of this Chamber of Deputies, but I don't really see anything. I cannot intervene in the activities of the courts, the less so in the activities of the Constitutional Court, let alone change the decisions already taken by these courts. And even when it comes to legislative work, we'd probably do a dot behind the dot, which would make it about three dots. And we know that three dots mean something other than a real dot. Even in this regard, our ministry has no competence. That would probably be the matter of the Ministry of Finance, almost certainly the Ministry of Finance. As I'm saying, I understand that the question of restitution is still alive and will always wipe out passions. Just that certain legal person, of whom the Vice-President is a member, made us a hell of a mess a long time ago by building a paradise on earth, and we still haven't gotten rid of it. And it's always gonna be that if one can undo the wrong, the other will say, but you should undo it for me, too. After all, I can tell you that our family had a house in Vinohrady, only that it was torn down just before the revolution, so instead of the house that everyone else got, we got a hundred thousand crowns, because these people were returning refunds according to the prices in 1950. Then I might as well bitterly say what justice is. Nothing, of course. But that's just the way it is in life. Like I said, there's nothing I can do about it. And the fact that I don't really want to do anything about it for the reasons I've tried to explain is probably secondary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u34	I thank the Minister for another sincere statement. Still, I filed a motion. 'Cause I can't let him take my place, so I'm sticking with him from here. That's all. Who else will be debating this matter? If no one, we have before us a motion for a resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies rejects the Minister of Justice's reply to Vojtěch Filip's intervention on the constitutionality of the Constitutional Court's position. I've started voting number 76 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 76, out of 115 for 33, against 27. The motion was not accepted. So the interpellation is settled. [[10.20 hours]] We will continue, and this is another rejected by the intervention, this time by the intervention of Mr Jan Farský on an interview in the Journal of Law, House Press 551. The Interpol minister is Andrej Babiš. I am opening the debate and Mr Jan Farský is signing up for it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Babiš in the diary last 20 June The right to the question of how many thieves there are in the House answered himself: As far as I know, at least four or five. [[Laughs in the hall.]] It seemed so serious to me that I allowed myself to interpel him in writing with the fact that I asked him who those people were and if he could identify them. I received a written reply: "I will not mark these at the question of the particular introduction of persons, and just as in an interview for the Rule of Law, I will leave the answer in general so that you do not misuse my answer for further attacks against me. " [[Laughs in the hall, mostly from the left side.]] I will read it once more: "I will leave the answer in general so that you do not abuse it for further attacks against me." I'm confused. Am I to see this as a confession, or am I to see it as an accusation of close associates? Unfortunately, I believe that I cannot obtain this answer without the Minister's presence here, and therefore I am asking the Chamber of Deputies to interrupt this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u36	Yes, thank you. We will decide in the procedural motion without debate, by voting 77 which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this reply to the written intervention. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 77, from 117 to 64 in favour, against 1. The proposal was adopted and the negotiations on this interpellation were adjourned. We will continue, by interpelling Mrs Radka Maxová on a change in the form of a lesson in the victim's victim's criminal proceedings against the Minister of the Interior, Milan Chovanec. And since the Member is not here and the Minister is not here, but especially for her absence, I must state, according to the Rules of Procedure, that this questioning will not be postponed. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura in the case of a selection procedure for the inclusion of the CEO of the Frýdek-Místek plant at the state enterprise Povodí Odry. This is the House Press 572 and an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. I give the floor to Mr Zbyněk Stanjur in an open debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u37	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the government's torsion, those ministers and ministers who participate in today's written interventions, because we will meet after the parliamentary holidays and more than half of the written interventions, if I have information, the relevant minister is not, testifying to how some members of the government approach this. So I really thank those who are here and are ready to debate with Members, whether coalition or opposition, which unfortunately is not the case with the Minister of Agriculture. Before I suggest a break, I'll say five sentences after all. That I could continue with the iron logic of the members of the government, which he had just demonstrated here by quoting from the answer of the Minister of Finance, Mr Farský. I intersected the Minister of Agriculture a few months ago to tell me the reason for the appeal of the Director General of the Odry. At the same time, I said that I respect the Minister's right to replace the Director and that I consider it normal in a civilized society if the new Minister wants to replace the Director of such an important enterprise that he has done well, so that he invites him, publicly thankes him, explains to him that a new Minister has arrived, wants to have his people there, and these, as decent and reasonable people, will break up. If that were the case, I would not burden the Minister of Agriculture or the Chamber of Deputies. However, a very common practice in the Czech Republic or in the political life of the Czech Republic, when someone wants to replace someone, whether at the level of the community, the region, or the state, instead of this standard polite procedure, they are looking for reasons to explain it. At the same time, the authority is clear and indisputable and I say that it is a good thing that the new minister can choose co-workers, including directors of major businesses in the department. I'm not questioning that at all. And I don't even think it's necessary to put out a tender, that it's just the responsibility of the particular minister, if he chooses him directly, to reach out to someone he knows could run the business, or to hold a tender. However, Minister Jurečka chose this procedure, and if you look at the log, he repeated about five times that the main and de facto only reason for recalling the former Director-General is that he refused to open a tender at the position of director of one of the Odry Povodí races, contrary to the wishes of the Ministry. The CEO then argued that he thought it best to make a closed tender, i.e. To first address the employees of a particular enterprise, he said that it is useful that there are people who have experience, there are enough people who can represent such a function. The Minister of Agriculture had a different opinion, it was the reason for the Director-General's appeal, and after a few months I asked how the new Director-General dealt with the task, and I must say that he did well. The new Director-General has conducted a closed selection procedure only from the Odry basin staff and has selected the person who worked in the company and who can certainly hold the position. So I don't want to criticize the new CEO. I want to ask you about the double approach of the Minister of Agriculture. When the CEO needed to appeal, there was a need for an open tender. When he switched and, by chance, his party colleague came there, which upset both the Minister of Agriculture and the Vice Prime Minister, it was no longer necessary. And I say and repeat, that's a good thing, that's a reason. And read my interview, where I quote from the tapestry of what Minister Jurečka said, and read his answer. And it's the iron logic: I called off the former director because he didn't put out an open tender. The new CEO did not issue an open tender because he convinced me that it was good to make a closed tender. I don't know how exactly I would describe this without using a stronger term, and I would like to discuss it with the Minister of Agriculture, and therefore I suggest that we stop discussing this interpelation so that he can explain this logic to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u38	Thank you, yes, there is a motion to interrupt. It is a proposal that is procedural, so we will not continue the debate, my colleague Bendl certainly understands. I've started voting number 78 and I'm asking who's in favour of interrupting this interpelation. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 78. Of the 118 present for 59, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. So we're gonna end the interpellation, and we're gonna continue with the next... [[Cries and warnings from the left side of the hall that the proposal has not been accepted and the debate is open.]] Oh, sorry, sorry. In that case, I accept my colleague Bendl's application for a debate at the moment, because we have not approved the procedural proposal and the debate is open. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u39	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, honourable two ministers present at the meetings. I think it is necessary to tell the Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL and the Minister of Agriculture in one person that he will not escape the intervention anyway. First of all. Two. You should already explain to the Minister that not attending the Chamber of Deputies, not attending the Council of Ministers for Agriculture of the European Union are a fatal weakening of the Czech position in the European Union in the field of agricultural policy and not taking part in the meetings of the Agricultural Committee, where the materials that are really important about the future of Czech agriculture are, I will say, a fatal failure to go to work, but a really abandoning the debate in which we are to go about how to go further in Czech agriculture. I very much call on the present President of the KDU-ČSL and Vice-President of the Government to ensure the participation of the Minister of Agriculture in the Chamber of Deputies, as well as his fatal absence and absence at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the European Union in the field of agriculture. It's worse than the Prime Minister for such a fatal absence. With the Prime Minister, we are certainly able to understand that there is a great number of responsibilities, but in order to have a significantly worse participation than the Prime Minister himself, I think that there has never been one in the past, and so please the Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister KDU-ČSL to be involved in this, because otherwise I do not know why you actually ran for the Chamber of Deputies!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u40	Yes, thank you, my colleague Bendl. I see the application from the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura, the Interpelling Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u41	Honestly, I don't know how to get out of this. I don't remember the House refusing to interrupt the interpellation if the minister isn't present. Partly it's my fault, because I didn't ask to be logged out, but part of it's also management's fault. Let's share responsibility. [[Fun.]] But I admit mine, because there's clearly no 120 of us here. I have a few options. Either we try again, which I don't know if it's gonna work, or I'm gonna talk about something else for 28 minutes, because that's what I want to debate. I don't want to question the vote because I voted in favour, I'm in favour of the high school, so everything's okay. [[Messenger. The hobby from the diaper suggests a solution.]] All I can suggest is that this item is interrupted by the next meeting, that is, in the second House of the week of this meeting, it will not get to this interpelation, but if we approve it, and I think it goes according to the Rules of Procedure, then Petr Bendl will be right that the Minister will not escape from the discussion of the interpelation. If it doesn't go through with the procedure, I'm really gonna be sorry and I'm gonna file it again, because I think we should talk about it. So my procedural proposal is to interrupt this interpellation until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u42	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, that is a relevant proposal, because otherwise we would have discussed it according to your original proposal on Thursday next week's meeting, whereas at the 32nd meeting it is something else. Otherwise, of course, you could have proposed a direct rejection, and there I would have signed you out of my own accord, because that's a little different. [[Disadvised gesture of the messenger. Stanjury.]] It's always your business if you're interested in finding out the exact state of affairs, and I don't want to interfere with your affairs. Okay. So a motion to interrupt the next meeting. I'll check you out first, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your identification cards and I will wait for the number of Members present to settle. Some people still don't want to sign up, even though they're here. At this point, we will be voting on the suspension of this interpelation until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where there will be an interpelation. Thus, they leave meetings called specifically for signatures. I've begun the vote on order 79, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 79 of the present 84 for 83. The proposal has been adopted and this will be discussed at the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We continue by interpelling Mr Zbyněk Stanjura on the issue of the liberalisation of rail transport, when he rejected the reply of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. I open the debate and ask if Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is the first to report. Yes, he's reporting. The Minister of Transport is present, we can discuss the interpellation without any difficulty. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u43	Thank you for the floor. We have special cases today. I do not remember, therefore, that one of the ministers would refuse to answer and submit the information requested by the Member. That's what happened in this interpellation. I consulted with the President of the Chamber of Deputies yesterday. Unfortunately, he's not here to confirm it, but if you can ask, he considers it as unacceptable as I do. We can have different political perspectives, we can interpret information or data that we get, we can lose it, but don't make me write under Law 106 and then judge and demand information. I think it is my constitutional right to exercise the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I'm telling you right now that I'm saying no because I didn't get about half the answers. For one part, the minister answered me, for the other part, he didn't answer me. At this point, I will focus briefly on the first part and then in more detail on the second part where I did not receive the answer. I asked how this government would continue to open up the rail passenger market. And if you read it and translate it from the official language, you'll know that basically nothing. During the operation of this government, i.e. from the 2013 elections to the end of the parliamentary term, i.e. sometimes October 2017 will not start riding on competing lines anywhere in relation to the competitions of the Ministry of Transport. So one thing is always a declaration, a press release as the government continues, and the originally adopted timetable is constantly being postponed. To be fair to Minister Took, he is not the first minister, and two of his predecessors in the government have postponed the timetable. I am not questioning and I am aware of this, and this is not new information that European directives and laws also allow direct input. That is not what I asked, but thank you for the educational window that all Members who can read it, who may not be interested in passenger rail transport, have learned this information. However, I am convinced that open selection procedures are a better way for the quality of travel, for better services, for passengers on the track and also for better prices, for better, more open competition, which would not record the Czech Railways, but also for private carriers. I think we should try. I described my own experience in the interview. When I went to the Ministry, I actually inherited the results of the submitted offer of the first pilot competition, where the state in the person of the Ministry of Transport received two offers. Unfortunately, there was a formal error in one, at that time under the valid wording of the Public Procurement Act, if you had one offer, you were forced to cancel the competition, so I cancelled it. [[10.40 hours]] At the same time, I knew that the offer remained in the competition, it was better than the one voted out. Therefore, I took advantage of the option that the Minister also writes about in reply, the direct assignment. Of course, that has to be notified. So we sent an announcement to the European Journal, but another minister canceled. So not the one track that was competitive, it was the Ostrava-Opava-Krnov-Olomouc track, it hasn't been competitive until today. And what happened during the contest? Until we competed, the Czech Railways showed a loss of one kilometer in some amount. At the moment when we launched a competition which the Czech Railways did not apply to, the costs fell miraculously on this line, respectively. loss for České dráhy, roughly in half. I'm going to assume that these are correct data, that increased efforts and greater efficiency have succeeded. So if we applied it on all the lines and it kind of fell in half, the saved amounts for the state budget are in the order of billions. As I write in the interview, the total resources from public budgets to cover the loss of passenger rail transport are approximately CZK 13 billion a year. I asked for some data on the management of the Czech Railways and the Minister replied: I wrote to the Czech Railways and the Czech Railways wrote to me that it was their business secret, that they would not tell the Minister and the Ministry, and therefore the Minister and Ministry cannot answer Parliament's Members. So I have supplementary questions that I know the answer to, but I would like the minister to say it and. [[unintelligible]] Who is the owner of the Czech Railways? Who is a member of the Management Committee of the Czech Railways? Which department sent how many people? Who is a member of the Supervisory Council of the Czech Railways? How many people did the Ministry send? We're pretending that the owner asks management and management tells him, I'm not telling you, Vlastík, that's my business secret. And I'm supposed to settle for that. And not just me, but you. I don't understand. I do not understand that when Minister Ťok received such an answer from the management of the Czech Railways, he says, "No, gentlemen. [[no]] That's the information I need for the Chamber of Deputies, and you're just gonna write it down for me." And if he doesn't, the owner can act. Management Committee, Supervisory Board, etc. I am 100% convinced that if the Ministry wants it, the management of the Czech Railways will meet the requirements of the Ministry of Transport. So much for my first performance. Because if we don't have the data, there's no point in speculating whether the questions I'm asking, and the data, should have shown the answer whether the suspicion of funding was justified, is not justified. [[unintelligible]] Whether there is a fair competitive fight especially on the Ostrava-Prague track or not. Without the evidence, we can't find out. I'd only speculate, and I don't want to speculate. I would like to discuss the facts and compare possible myths with reality. Unfortunately, neither I nor you can do that, which is why I suggest we disagree with the Minister's reply. And if I wanted to paraphrase the Minister of Justice's question, "What about it?"so over and over again, again, and I ask for those answers. And then let's talk about them. Then let us discuss whether the plan that the government has for opening up the rail market or the rail passenger market is slow, proportionate or fast. Without specific data, I just don't know. And I mean, I'm glad, and now I really don't mean it ironically, that the Minister, regardless of the fact that there isn't yet a register of contracts, even publishes contracts under 50 grand. But take the situation - we will find each contract on the website of the Ministry of Transport for five or ten thousand. And that's good. But if we want to ask if we're publishing 13 billion right, 13 billion versus less than 50,000, we just won't know because it's a business secret. And my long-standing approach to business secrets in relation to the public sphere is simple. If you want to do business with the state, the county or the village, you don't have a business secret. If you want business secrets, find private partners. Then there's nothing to the state after that business secret. I didn't want any key-type stuff, passwords, software products. I understand all that. But these are not business secrets, more like copyright, etc. I wanted to point out that it is true that relatively detailed data, but for example I do not know why we cannot know how much the average cost per mile is for České dráhy. How can they bill 13 billion a year to the Ministry, states and regions - to say that much is paid from regional budgets - if we don't know what the average cost is, and therefore the average return, or the loss of one mile away from the public service? I just don't believe it's a business secret. And I can't believe that data can't process very quickly on the Czech Railways. But it's simple. If we let any state enterprise grow over our heads, no matter who the minister is, no matter what the government says, management will decide. I don't think it's good. Management is supposed to account for the owner, in this case the state, and become to the greatest extent, but not 100%, it is sometimes a mistake, the Ministry of Transport does not have 100% representation, for example in the Management Committee, even it does not have majority, if I am not mistaken, three out of seven, if I am not mistaken, but I believe that all representatives of the Ministry in the Management Committee are able to deposit the management of the Czech Railways to provide the Minister of Transport information so that he can properly reply to Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u44	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Mr Dan Ťok, Minister of Transport, is reporting in an open debate on this interpelation. I don't have another application yet. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u45	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Stanjur, I would just like to start by saying that my reply did not say that the Ministry of Transport would refuse to give information to anyone it has, let alone to reject them to Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, we will provide you with all the information that The Ministry of Transport has and which, of course, are available in this way. But I would start with the information on the liberalisation of public services. The government expressed its interest in liberalisation by resolution 758 of 15 September 2014 and specifically proposed that it continue to liberalise competitions on lines R16 Plzeň - Most, R5 plus R20 Prague - Ústí nad Labem - Děčín - Cheb, R14 to plus R15 Pardubice - Liberec - Ústí nad Labem and R27 Olomouc - Krnov - Ostrava. The first competition on line R16 Plzeň - Most is currently taking place. The notice of opening the invitation to tender on line R16 was published in February 2015. The closing date for the submission of tenders was 8 September 2015. The Ministry of Transport received five offers - namely from České dráhy, LEO Express, Tenders, s.r.o., Arriva consortium and GW Train and RegioJet, a. s. Most of the applicants offered lower prices than the state currently pays for operating this line. In the case of a line, a contract may be concluded on the basis of the result of the selection procedure, first after the completion of the work of the evaluation committee which is currently working, and in addition after the decision of the client to choose the most appropriate tender and then after the settlement of any objections or proposals submitted to the Office for the Protection of Competition. [[10.50 hours]] Unfortunately, I have to say here that, given this fact, we have received an objection from the český Railways to this competition. We rejected it and the Czech Railways submitted a submission to the ÚOHS, which will have to decide. That means, I hope the UOHS here decides quite quickly and we will be able to complete this competition. In the original timetable, we should already compete with the second line or the other two lines, however, the Ministry of Transport agreed, in agreement with other potential suppliers, to suspend or postpone this competition. We have moved it because we want to give these lines the opportunity to buy cars from the Transport Operational Programme, which would quickly bring better quality trains for any of the carriers to these lines, while at the same time, in order to meet this commitment, this programme must be passed through the government. The material is currently in an inter-ministerial commentary procedure. I assume that in the coming weeks it will get on the agenda of the government, will be approved, and then immediately and immediately we will continue writing these lines. There's one thing I'd like to get back to. What Mr Stanjura, through Mr President, said here about the Opava Line competition, the problem that was there, of course, was that one contestant remained, the other unfortunately had to be excluded. Given that the notification in this case would last one to two years, both parties, in this case not only the Ministry, but also the offerer, agreed that in this case they would withdraw from this contract and it was dealt with by direct award. As for information from the Czech Railways, I have to say yes here, the Czech Railways are a business company that is 100% held in the hands of the state. The Ministry of Transport exercises shareholder rights, but it is not quite easy in all respects. The Czech Railways Management Committee is here, the Supervisory Board is here, the head of the Supervisory Board is, yes, a Member of the Ministry of Transport, but I must say that this does not mean that the Ministry of Transport clearly has this authority under control. Of course, both the Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors must operate under the law and it is their responsibility to decide how to do so. I would like to say here that the Ministry really was not and cannot answer Mr Stanjura's questions at this time, especially in the generalized information, because the Czech Railways nowadays do not follow individual - or, on average, the average, the costs per kilometre, regardless of which line, because the costs differ significantly from each other. What the Ministry of Transport has at its disposal are materials according to which it is able to check how the funds we spend from the state budget in subsidies are spent on public service lines. The differences are too big for other matters and want to be here after the Czech Railways, which have a uniform fare, and it is not specifically for a single line to give a general mile away, it is not, I think, entirely fair. Me and the český Railways are debating these things. I'm not pretending that the Czech Railways are a pier who pushes things forward quite slowly. I'm not happy with that. On the other hand, I have to accept the fact that the Czech Railways are already in a liberalised market, and I have accepted their reminder that they provide the information they have. We require information so that we are effectively able to check whether the losses covered by state subsidies are adequate. This information is, of course, available and we are ready to pass it on to Mr Stanjur. However, I feel that information about how many train kilometres are on average or how much is on each passenger line is information that is not absolutely essential to the nature of the state subsidy control and therefore I did not require them from the Czech Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u46	Thank you, Minister. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Adamec has the first, followed by Mr Urban. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would perhaps say something from my own experience here to the Minister, how companies operate under the control of the Ministry of Transport, virtually. As it should be. I was a long-time member of the Board of Directors of SŽDC, which is the organization that separated from the Czech Railways in the framework of the liberalisation and regulation of the European Union and manages the tracks, and one day we decided otherwise than the State, the Minister wanted it, and I will tell you how it ended. We haven't been there in a week. I don't see why, and I don't understand that the minister here is saying that they're not just gonna tell the owner the data he's asking for. I have my own experience, and if they don't want to, they just won't be there. By the way, Mr. Stanjura was Minister then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u48	I thank you for keeping time. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Urban. Then Mr. Stanjura is duly registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I want to stand up for the Minister a little, because he found himself in an absurd situation, not by his own guilt. It's giving the data means favouring competition. Now what does the minister who is the executor of property rights do? He's supposed to be a proper caregiver, and we're forcing him to liberalize, which means he's hurting the company he owns in his own way or at a disadvantage. So I think it needs to be organized in the future. České dráhy is the property of the state and that is good, the executor of property rights is mostly the Ministry of Transport and that is also good, but the Ministry of Transport is not supposed to liberalize. It's supposed to be someone else or watch liberalization. It's supposed to be some regulator, someone independent, not the owner of an important subject. That's the problem. Then I understand that the entity, the Ministry, as the owner of the firm, is taking care of the proper economy, and I do not mean that the Czech Railways do not have any reserves, but that it is afraid to give the public and the market information that might put the Czech Railways at a disadvantage. From this point of view, the situation is a bit absurd, not by the current minister, but by all previous ministers and all previous governments, regardless of political affiliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u50	Thank you. Mr Stanjura is now duly registered. Just for the record, Mr President, I will have to suspend this point at 11 o'clock, because there is another programme at 11 o'clock. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u51	Mr Urban is wrong. If it puts the competition at a disadvantage information about, for example, the number of passengers or the number of tickets sold, how does the state control the loss if it doesn't know how many people go there and how much a fare is sold? It's just not true. The Minister says - I quote him - the Czech Railways did not give it to me, so unfortunately I cannot provide you with information. Today, Minister, you said some serious sentences. I'd say at least the one isn't true. I am not in control of the Czech Railway Supervisory Board. And who controls her if not the owner? Who does the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways listen to when the Minister of Transport says "don't be mad at me, I don't have control over her"? And then you say-- we'll be happy to provide you with that information. Well, you could have, and you didn't give them to me. And then, Minister, you said, "I didn't ask them to." Then it is not the responsibility of the Czech Railways, but your personal responsibility. [[11.00 hours]] Now let's go over the data I wanted. And let's say, when you say "we don't want to liberalize the railway market, we want the Czech Railways to stay" that's a legitimate political view. Colleagues from the left have long held him, I don't share him, but I understand. But I can't say "I want to open the market" at the same time, and do everything I can not open it. Either I want to open it or I don't want to. Both roads are legitimate, both roads have their own defenses and political supporters. Each of us is convinced of what could be better for the passengers. And I'm not questioning it, I'm just saying that I have a different opinion than my colleague Urban, as far as we can liberalize. The government's been here for two years, and I know that the problem is that we lack a regulator and that the Department of Transport, the minister, is in a dual role. I know that. Well, we left in June 2013. I've been there for six months. I really can't help everything that hasn't happened in six months. Meanwhile, there were two other ministers. So it doesn't look like I'm criticizing Minister Took that he hasn't done anything for two years. But in my opinion, this government does not want to open the market. I think it's a shame, but I think it's more honest to say "we don't want it" than to say "we want it," and to do everything to make sure it doesn't work. Seems more logical to me. And because I take that train very often and I see the effects for passengers on that one single line that is liberalised, i.e. Ostrava-Prague - better service, more frequent connection, better price. The passengers made a lot of money on that, and if you put statistics on it, you'll find that the number of passengers has increased many times. So instead of driving a D1 car, we often drive some of the carriers, because the track is good, it runs fast, prices are good. And when we propose to keep this going, this government says no, the first timetable, I think, says December 2019, that's two years after the next election. Why not? It's a legitimate opinion I don't agree with. But if I want information that would confirm or disprove whether the Czech Railways on the railway line of Prague-Ostrava are moving fair to competition, then the Czech Railways will tell me "we won't give them to you because it would damage us." But if it's fair, there's no chance the government's opening up more and more lines to competitors, the data will, of course, become obsolete. I wanted to be 2014. If it goes according to this government, the first train will leave in 2019, so tell me how data from 2014 can harm the competitive struggle in a competition that you have not written. [[- Mr. Congressman...]] And the last sentence, and I'm done. [[Thank you.]] History repeats itself. How is it possible that the Czech Railways are sabotaging the competition again? It happened once before at the first challenge, and now they're doing it again. Objection. The Ministry rejected this objection. And the company, which is managed by the Ministry of Transport, refers to the UOHS. Does that seem normal to you? Do you know any other, perhaps regional or urban level, where it could happen that the city's business is attacking the decision of its owner? It would have turned out the way my colleague, Mr Ivan Adamec, described earlier. The management just went.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u52	Thank you. I am interrupting the discussion of this point and ending the discussion of written intercessions. I remind you only for the sake of order that we have already firmly classified points 139, 150, 133, 31, 23, 24 and 22, and for 12.45 minutes we have a fixed electoral point 192 and we will address paragraph 129 after the oral intercession. I report with the priority right of Mr. Vice-President Gazdík and President Sklenák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u53	Good morning, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I've announced this and I'll actually do it every day. Even today, I would like to propose item 120, House press 543 of the Law on the Agricultural Soil Fund, which actually burns and is critical for many young, especially young families, to include in our negotiations tomorrow as the first point of the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u54	Thank you. I'll make a note of it. Furthermore, President Sklenák with priority rights and after him President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u55	Thank you for the floor, good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Given that we did not have time to discuss an important point last night, namely the amendment to the Act on the budgetary determination of the revenues of certain taxes, it is paragraph 7, the Parliament's press 416, so I propose that we place it firmly as paragraph 133 today, i.e. if I am not mistaken as the fourth fixed point of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u56	Thank you. Now, President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u57	Good morning, colleagues, Mr President. Allow me also to propose some changes concerning tomorrow's day, namely the firm inclusion of items on the agenda for Friday 18. 9. as the first item 159 of the programme, the government bill on insurance, it is printing 414, yesterday we also did not have time to negotiate it in third readings, and then as the second item of the government bill on registration of sales and as the third point of the law related thereto, it is prints 513 and 514. As a first point, I repeat, Law 277, Print 414, Print 513 and Print 514 as a third point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u58	Thank you. [[A Member of the Votava is reporting in front of the speaker's desk.]] Only with priority rights. Yes, now proposals are accepted to modify the program. You have your word. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u59	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to ask for a fixed point, namely a draft of the Czech Republic's State Final Account for 2014, Parliament's Press 475. It's important for us to actually close 2014. Now, I don't know where we're going to put it, if it's the first point in tomorrow's meeting, I think it's going to be very short.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u60	I want to ask you the number of this point. It's a 475 House press. [[Mr Votava: Yes, that's right.]] Point number? [[Help from the hall: 200]] Point 200. That means the first point on Friday. [[Member of Votava: Yes, thank you.]] Thank you. Vice-President Filip. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u61	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I propose that item 129 be removed from this afternoon's meeting in order to facilitate the discussion of those points that we have not had since Tuesday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u62	Yes, this point concerns Ukraine. I'm registering this proposal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u63	vážený President. I would like to include the oldest press in the House, which has number 42, as the second point tomorrow. It's the contract register bill, third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u64	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u65	Thank you for the floor. I have no suggestion, just a comment on the proposals. The government coalition has been saying for months how she's the one that's been moving the contract register forward. I'm not a fan of this law, I've never kept it a secret and I'm not hiding it, and I'm saying it openly. I have also tabled 13 amendments, of which I make the adoption of some of them subject to my own consent to the adoption of the law as a whole. But a year and a quarter, all the plaintiffs or some of them, not all, are pushing it. And we heard a statement from coalition politicians on Monday: this week we will push through, push through, finally finish the contract register. Reality is like that, and everyone who suggests: If you submit a state final account before the contract register, and that's not a formality, it's not a minute of debate, I think it's time to talk about 1,300 billion expenses, submit analysis and criticism, if you put EET ahead of it, as you propose, and the contract register just won't be. I really don't mind, I'm saying this openly, but then don't tell the press, media and activists that it's you who run and push it forward. [[11.10 hours]] A colleague of Farský, yes, he's been trying for three years. How many times in the last month did he propose a prioritization of that point? You've always rejected it. So I leave it up to you, you have most of it. We don't really care how the points will be stacked tomorrow, whether we start with an EET or something else, but you know that if we start out the way President Faltýnek suggested, but also President Votava, he won't be able to get to the contract register tomorrow by 2:00 p.m., at the third reading. Why not? Just so you know, and to take responsibility for putting it off again for a few weeks or months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u66	Thank you. Mr. Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u67	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I understand the program's loaded. I'm downloading my proposal. I assume, then, that, in agreement with Minister Babiš, we will apply it to what they say, an emergency meeting that will be in 14 days. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u68	Thank you. I made a note of it. Mr. Laudát. I ask you, colleagues, to make room for the speaker to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u69	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, when we didn't discuss some points after 10:30 a.m. on Tuesday night and we discussed even less yesterday, I was wondering what was going to happen, and I was quite right to estimate that chaos would break out by the fact that the coalition's factions, coalition members would start stuffing there completely chaoticly and changing the program to push their points. Guys, if this is how you behave in the House, then I'm not surprised you run this country this way. I understand that it is important to discuss the RUD that we have not discussed, because yesterday we opened up the room for you to vote after the 19th hour of this meeting, and out of 118 members of the coalition, you were unable to get it, I think the vote was 63 votes in favour. But what you're doing here today... You don't want to take a break or at least make a deal with each other in the morning in front of the House, setting priorities for the program, and you actually load here and say, and you have most of them to score points. But if anyone really thinks that tomorrow will be the second point of the EET, then it must be clear to him that a number of third readings will fall under the table, some of which may already be under sanctions. And then you'll probably blame the opposition for the chaos in this country. I really urge you to finally sit down and start acting at the level of how this Republic and this House should be governed. I think that there are things like selling time on holidays, etc., those are the priorities you put there, but then there are really things that the state requires to be discussed and approved. Of course, you lied to people about the best reconstruction of the state, and that if there wasn't a register of contracts two days ago, it's too late, and you're gonna bring in another step that just means it's going to be postponed again by weeks and weeks. The fact is, and it's a hat down that you have such PR that you can endlessly lie to people about how you control things differently and better, but the reality here is quite obvious. What it's turning into here - and I would really ask it to come together, whether today or tomorrow, and start putting together what it's going to pay to really tell the coalition what priorities are, and act accordingly. If you want to meet here ad hoc like this, you just have to argue about who's gonna push through their stuff all of a sudden, that's really the real, real picture of how you rule. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u70	Thank you. Another one entered in the debate is Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u71	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's all been said here. I think that when the contract register is being discussed, it is a very difficult matter, it is being taken to committees and it is constantly being pushed away, although it is always promised that it will be discussed, then something will happen again, eventually it is not being discussed and something else will be pushed forward. I agree with my colleague Farský that this law, this register of contracts, should be discussed and should not be constantly delayed, so that everyone has an opinion on this, but it should definitely be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u72	Thank you. I don't see anyone else logged in, in which case we will vote on individual proposals to change the program. First I read - spare card No. 2 today Mr Radek Vondráček and alternate card No. 20 married Mrs. Kailová. First of all, the proposal from Vice-President Gazdík was made, to include item 120 tomorrow, House print 543, on the agricultural soil fund. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby so we can vote. I'm registering your application for check-out, I'm going to log you out, and I'm going to ask you to rejoin. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of item 120 being the first item on tomorrow's agenda. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 80, 148 Members and Members registered, for proposal 42, against 52. This proposal was... I'm registering your objection that your voting device isn't working. In that case, I declare this vote misguided. I'll check you out again and ask you to sign in again. I wonder if everyone has succeeded in registering for a voting device. Nobody floats... [[Objection from the O.R.: You didn't say the number and name of the point.]] I said the number of the point and what it relates to. I said it was about an agricultural soil fund, that's what I said. Anyone else registering a voting device problem? Still? So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna sign you off one more time, and I'm gonna ask you to sign in, but unfortunately, part of the Members aren't working on the voting device. I'm gonna ask you to try your voting cards again and come forward. Anyone else report a problem with the voting cards? It's not like that. In that case, there is nothing to prevent us from taking the vote. I will repeat what we will vote on, which means we will vote on who is in favour of item 120 as the first item tomorrow. It is a point concerning the agricultural soil fund. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? We have a vote with order number 81, 156 Members and Members registered, for proposal 50, against 64. This proposal was rejected. [[11.20 hours]] Next, President Sklenák gave his proposal, and that is that item 7 should be included on today's day, it concerns the budgetary determination of taxes to be included today as point 133 as a fixed item. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? We have a vote with order number 82; 159 Members and Members are registered, for draft 157, against none. This proposal was adopted. The next proposal is from President Faltýnek to place him firmly on Friday as the first point in point 159, that is the point in respect of insurance, and point 513 and point 514 (rightly paragraphs 13 and 14 - House prints 513 and 514) concerning the record of sales was included as the second and third point. I ask whether I should vote separately, that is, the first point, the second point, and the third point separately. Yes. So we will now vote on who agrees to put item 159 on insurance as the first item tomorrow. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 83, the Members present are 159, in favour of proposal 89, against 31. This proposal has been approved. In addition, we will be voting for point 513 (right point 13, print 513) - sales records to be included tomorrow as the second item. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 84, the Members present are 159, for proposal 91, against 38. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. Furthermore, we will vote on the inclusion of point 514 (rightly paragraph 14, print 514) as the third item of the negotiations, which relates to the point of registration of sales. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 85, registered 159 Members of Parliament, for proposal 89, against 37. I note that this proposal has also been approved. Furthermore, there is a proposal from Vice-President Filip, and that is to exclude paragraph 129 from today's negotiations, that is an item concerning Ukraine. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour of eliminating this point, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 85; 159 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 31, against 103. This proposal was rejected. I also have a proposal from my colleague Farský to include the 42 - contract register as the second item tomorrow. This is President Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u73	Vice-President, I need to explain what we are going to vote on. The proposal was clear. However, the House decided by vote that the second point would be different. And now I don't know exactly what we're voting on. So I would like an explanation of what we are going to vote on before the vote starts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u74	You're right. We have three fixed points. That means we're going to vote on this to be the fourth fixed point. [[Big fuss and conjecture in the hall.]] My colleague Farský reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u75	Mr President, I am not competent in procedures, but I think one of the legal rules says that lex posterior derogat priori, which means that now that we vote that it is the second point, it will be the second point and it will push everyone else away. This means that we can vote on my original proposal, that it is the second point of tomorrow's meeting, without changing anything about what has been said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-001-214.u76	Okay. The House is in this souvenir. I've loaded the fixed points. Anyway, if, in this case, the House decides that it wants to place this item on tomorrow as a fixed item, I will put it to a vote. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Tomorrow's the second point. I said, "Tomorrow, the second fixed point." So I'm going to read the motion for a vote one more time - put 42 of the contract register as the second item tomorrow. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 87, registered by 159 Members, in favour of proposal 87, against 5. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. [[Big round of applause from the right.]] That's what we've been through with all the proposals to modify the program. [[Suddenly, there was a huge wave of noise in the hall. Members are crowded and debated.]] We're going to focus on the fixed points we voted on. The first is - but I, colleagues, will ask you to keep the room down, because the noise level is really enormous.
