ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 15, 16 and 17 First of all, with priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I heard the opening speech of the Minister of Finance, I confess that I was slightly moved. It was the same text that the Ministry of Finance officials wrote to me in 2013 on the draft Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility, which I presented here in 2013. The proposal, as it was put forward at the time, was consistent with the text. The proposal we have today is a bitter joke when it talks about stabilizing public budgets, about development, about responsibility. Because unfortunately, all we have left is the opening word, which remained the same for two years, and the title of the Budgetary Responsibility Act. Everything else is completely different, it is neutered, and it would be fair if the title were not a constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, but a constitutional law on budgetary irresponsibility. Because by law, the government tells us nothing but that we agree that debt-adjusted debt should not be higher than 60%. Until then, we're not ready to do almost anything. At 55 percent we want to make some vague statements without sanctions, and since we now have about 43 percent of those reserves cleared, the government says nothing but that we here formally claim a name that we call budgetary responsibility, and we do nothing below it but that roughly half a trillion - I repeat half a trillion crowns - we can still borrow on account of future generations without having to confess, to bear any sanctions or to take any measures. This is, please, a bill on budgetary irresponsibility. This is not a law on budgetary responsibility. [[17.40 hours]] Maybe I'll surprise you. I will not now argue about what I think should be in the constitutional law. I know that many of you will try. I also wish if it weren't only 55 percent, if there were 45 percent of the orange signal, 50 percent of the orange-red penalty, 55 percent of the big problem. If only there'd just been the gradual brakes and the fuse. There are no gradual brakes and fuse. What we once presented was an effort to brake at some point, but not hard. Brake. So we wouldn't crash into that wall. What Minister Babiš is putting forward is a challenge to go full throttle until it hits that wall with that nose. With the assumption that I wouldn't be Minister of Finance by then, I wouldn't care. This really is not a standard that in any way encourages the government or the Chamber of Deputies to assume budgetary responsibility. But that's not what I want to argue about. I don't want to argue about 45 per cent or 50 per cent, whether or not there should be such sanctions. I want to say that the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, if it met at least the basic criteria, would be an important segment, but only a segment, the key rules of the government's budgetary policy responsible. And the key rule of responsible budgetary policy is not just debt. It is also a structural deficit. Not by chance, the fiscal treaty to which the government has signed in Title III and Title IV follows these two basic criteria, the structural deficit and the level of debt, and follows, above all, the trends, not the static indicator. Sixty percent, if she had the Czech Republic today, that's a terrible number for her, because she actually has 43. Sixty percent if she had Italy today, it's a fantastic number for her, because she's actually 110. The glass is either half-empty or half-full, and that static number tells us nothing about the government's responsible budgetary policy. That's what the trends tell us. Whether it's getting better or worse. The absolute amount of debt of around 43 percent, if the Minister corrects me, I am talking about debt adjusted from debt reserves, not nominal debt, which is calculated for fiscal compact purposes, the absolute amount of debt is not a dramatic problem for the Czech Republic. This is relatively low compared to a number of other countries, even Germany. The absolute problem is the trend. And the trend determines the second key indicator, the structural deficit. In other words, whether the glass will be filled or emptyed. That's the important thing. We have, now speaking for Members of the TOP 09, offered to the government, almost a year ago, and we have offered it to her after she formally signed up for fiscal compact, that if she does not only formally sign up for the fiscal compact, but actually, that is. that it will take Titles III and IV, namely the debt indicator and the structural deficit indicator, that we are ready to support the ratification of this fiscal compact, for which a constitutional majority is needed, that we are ready to support the budgetary responsibility law as well, and that we are ready to support every draft state budget that respects this signing and that respects the minimum recommended reduction of the structural deficit by half a percent a year. Because this is the pace that will guarantee that, regardless of whether we have 55, 50 or how much in the Constitutional Act on Budgetary Responsibility, this is the pace that guarantees us that we will not get into crisis areas, with half a percent a year being a very peaceful and kind demand. I would like to remind you that, according to open information from the Ministry of Finance, the structural deficit decreased at an average rate of 1.4 per annum between 2010 and 2013, which is roughly 60 billion. If we say that we should reduce the structural deficit at 0.5 % per year, we are talking about 20 billion crowns. The year-on-year increase with projected 2% GDP growth is approximately CZK 23 to 25 billion. So we don't even want the government to save. We just want her not to waste money, so she doesn't raise expenses. And if it doesn't increase it, the year-on-year increase in GDP will make it perfectly safe for the half-percent it is committed to. If half a percent commit to it, we're not in any danger of getting to 55, 50 or 60. We will simply reduce the structural deficit at half a percent a year. Once again, after four years of ongoing reduction in the structural deficit and the recovery of public budgets, there has been a sharp deterioration in 2014 compared to 2013, and worse, further deterioration compared to 2015, so this year we have a structural deficit of 1.8 percent. Okay, 1.8 percent of the structural deficit and 43 percent of the debt, while it is an unnecessary deterioration in the state of public budgets and irresponsibleness, it is not a tragic and dramatic situation. And if the government decided to reduce the structural deficit by half a percent a year for a responsible budgetary policy, i.e. She's gonna decide not to spare as she promised. She promised to save - we don't want that. Just not to increase spending, not to throw away money and 25 billion income from higher annual growth to reduce structural deficits, so in four years we are on balanced budgets without any social shocks. When the government commits to this, it can count on our support for all these basic documents. The Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility, ratification of fiscal compact and budgets, which will respect this strategy, regardless of the fact that spending, i.e. political, priorities in these budgets will be such that they do not suit us. These are government priorities, the opposition had other priorities. But if budgets meet that fundamental requirement that the next year's structural deficit will be half a percent lower than that of the previous year, i.e. that the government will not save, but will not increase expenditure, then can count on our support for all these documents. Because it is a logical, understandable and responsible financial policy. If the government does not want to commit to this both to the European Commission and to the Czech public, it cannot count on our support for Potěmkinův's villages. We simply cannot support the government's law on budgetary responsibility, which is called that, and in fact is the government's proposal for a bill on budgetary irresponsibility. We cannot support the ratification of the fiscal compact to which the government has formally applied, but it has requested an exception from all the important points of the fiscal compact, because, in addition to Title III and IV, there are only wordings on budgetary responsibility. But the real instruments of budgetary responsibility are contained in that Title III and IV. Then there's nothing more than a formula like "hopeful," "understand," "together striving." [[17.50 hours]] So are the budgets. It's hard to say that I'm saving, and I'm throwing away 40 billion more each year, as you intend. So if you really commit to fulfilling what you verbally said you wanted to save if you actually applied not formally, but really to what you signed up for at European Union level, that you wanted to respect fiscal compact, then there is no problem supporting this law, however bad it is. Because we are in a situation where the structural deficit is an infinitely more important criterion for us than the absolute amount of debt, and if you follow this criterion, it cannot happen that there will be a critical situation on the issue of debt. Other states are different, so there are two criteria in fiscal compact. A structural deficit is crucial for us. That's a fair offer from the opposition club. And that's a fair offer from a club who cares about budgetary responsibility. If you really want to fulfill what you claim, you can count on our support. If you want to apply only formally and really want to do something else, not only can we not support you, but we will draw attention to your hypocrisy today and daily. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u3	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Now with priority rights, President Tomio Okamura. A colleague of Klaška will prepare himself for the club's chairman. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement on behalf of the Dawn Assembly. In general, debt is not good. Economists would add that there is no debt as debt. If I borrow for a reasonable thing, i.e. if I invest the money well, then debt can also be the right step from trouble or start to prosperity. But it is also true that long-term debt is the way to hell. In the debate on the debt brake, priorities need to be seen in a slightly different way than those set by the government, and that is what I would like to talk about. Debt of 55 per cent may or may not be a disaster depending on how long it would take. Of course, the longer the worse. Because debt service costs are rising and the country's credit in the financial market is falling. In our view, the principle of constitutional pre-debt insurance should, first and foremost, oblige all governments to balance the budget in the long term, and that is lacking here. Even if the current irresponsible management of governments has made such a requirement for utopians, but utopias that should one day be reality. Personally, I see as a risk of approval in quotation marks of a problem-free constitutional debt ratio, where there is a logical risk that the 55 per cent threshold will become more of a standard for further debt. The correct targeting should, in my opinion, be quite opposite. The ideal is the surplus, or at least zero, and only in bad times debt according to the acute need, not according to the pre-set bar. That is, I think, the fundamental difference in this government's view and in the view that we see, that is, in the view of sound management. The Constitution should therefore, first of all, declare the government's obligation to manage a balanced budget and commit future governments to this objective. That's just what we're missing here in this proposal. The follow-up law on budgetary responsibility also hides other problems. The proposal on budgetary liability rules sets out austerity measures that do not apply in the event of disasters or financial crises defined by the decline in GDP over the last two years. So here, too, it seems to me that this is far from ideal, because the crisis, i.e. a crisis de facto, not a crisis according to economic manuals, can occur from day to day. And let me give you a specific example. For example, if the US federal government were limited by the proposed Czech laws, which means what the government is proposing here, it would not be allowed to approve TARP programs in 2008, save car manufacturers, and countercyclically cover the economic downturn. Just before the crisis broke out, the real economy in the US was growing. In 2007, by 2.2 %. This means that, according to the tables, the US would not be in the economic crisis and therefore the exemption to government management could not be applied. What follows from this is that much better than binding a government with specific numbers that can never reflect the reality of life is to commit governments in general to a particular Swiss constitution. It basically says briefly on three points that the Confederation must maintain its revenue and expenditure in balance over time. Secondly, if the federal budget's total expenditure exceeds the ceiling within the meaning of the constitutional law, these excessive spending needs to be compensated by savings, with details being specified by law. Finally, thirdly, there are some types of expenditure that are excluded from the Swiss debt brake. This is mainly about health and unemployment insurance costs, which are intended to operate anticyclically. The Swiss debt brake was enacted in 2003 and reduced the growth of public expenditure from an average value of 4,3% to 2,6%. Last decade, while Switzerland's gross debt first increased to 53.9 percent of GDP in 2004, it fell again to 42.1% in 2010. And such a result was achieved by Switzerland due, among other things, to its so-called debt brake. The aim of the Swiss system is to keep the federal government's total spending relatively independent of the economic cycle so that expenditure growth reflects the trendy long-term growth of the economy. Tax revenues can then fluctuate according to the business cycle, in which case there is no need to increase taxes at the time of the recession and thus deepen the economic downturn. And just such a flexible-set debt brake is not procyclical, it does not worsen the recession, it helps to balance the recession and keep the budget at the best possible level in the long term. This should primarily be our aim and purpose for this government, and not to hold formally some constitution-specific debt ratio. But the government is not going that way. In this modern direction, from the most advanced countries in the world. So, if I sum up, we will vote for the second reading for the Úsvit movement club, because we also had it in our program, that we need to enforce a constitutional debt brake, however, our complaints, and I think these are quite fundamental criticisms, I have said here and we will continue to discuss the proposal and try to propose changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u5	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Now, Mr Klaška, on behalf of the President of the KDU-ČSL. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, allow me to sum up the discussion to date, as I have been following it for the last year, on budgetary responsibility or on this subject. I believe that it is not about whether to be budgetaryly responsible, in essence the European Union, which we are a Member State and its directives, also recent experience with the debt crisis, but it is more about how to be budgetaryly responsible. That is also what today's discussion is about. As I have watched this debate in the last year, it may be that someone has a mantra, that if they are not in the law, and please in the constitutional law, the rule on debt brakes, that when reaching the public debt threshold of 55 percent of GDP, declared by the independent National Budget Board, the government must present a balanced or surplus budget as soon as possible within 15 or 30 days. And it's so crucial to him that he doesn't even take anything else. Or it's irrelevant to him or it's not important to him. In my opinion, however, it is essentially a measure of the type of fiscal reef. And we know how such solutions, which offer a fiscal cliff, for example, in the US, will come to an end. There's always a deal, because it's a problem for any government. This measure is therefore not effective. In this context, let me mention that the Czech Republic does not live in a vacuum. Around Europe, in particular the European Union, with its efforts to restart economic growth, with its pillars of rebooting economic growth, with its EU law, trade relations and ties, there is a globalised economy, international development, and all of this has an objective and daily impact on the Czech Republic. [[18.00 hours]] Therefore, in my view, budgetary responsibility is not only the provisions on debt brakes but on more interlinked principles, the determination of revenue on the basis of a serious macroeconomic forecast, with the opinion of the forecast committee, in which very erudite experts are to operate. Furthermore, the expenditure rule with countercyclical action and effect, with consideration of the National Budget Board. By the way, I highly recommend this spending rule, especially box five in the explanatory memorandum. Furthermore, there is a correction component as a pillow of a maximum of 2% of GDP for the difference between planned and actual management, if times are worse. The principle of the public institutions sector. It is not only a state budget, it is the budgets of other state institutions, but also health insurance companies that manage public health insurance, public universities, etc. There is also the principle of the National Budget Board, an independent expert body operating in the area of fiscal budgetary policy. We don't want to be formal, we don't just want to have a debate. We want to be budgetaryly responsible with the primary task of reducing the deficit to a balanced budget and then reducing existing debt and creating reserves for worse times. Therefore, we think it is important to be budgetaryly responsible without delay, but also to take account of the economic cycle, the current situation of the national economy, the global economy, and not to stir up undesirable shocks in the economy, so that we do not go anywhere near 55 percent of public debt to GDP. Once again, it is not whether to be budgetaryly responsible, but how to be budgetaryly accountable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u7	I, too, thank you and now with priority right Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u8	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me make two comments on this press on the draft constitutional law. The creators did not even try to put this draft constitutional law into the logic of the Constitution. He would probably have to come in front of the fifth or sixth head, depending on how they would perceive the question of the Czech National Bank, or how they would continue to do what needs to be done from the point of view of the executive power. That's a purely constitutional assessment. I will continue to do so before I say a certain organizational measure, or a proposal that should be directed towards that. At the beginning of our parliamentary term, we did not approve the creation of a Constitutional Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore we do not have any body that is mirrored to deal with the second Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Senate, how to reach agreement in our constitutional system, to change or to supplement the Constitution either by individual articles of the Constitution or by separate constitutional laws. This has come back to us, and I think it is a permanent deficit in the work of the Chamber of Deputies. It's not that there's no constitutional committee here, it's certainly here, but it's his duty to discuss ordinary laws from the point of view of the work of this committee and to look at how they respect the Constitution's system. And when we acted in the subcommittee on the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the government presented 11 proposals for change by mouth or document Jiří Dienstbier, and there was no such proposal. The other proposals that arose during the meeting of the subcommittee were, in total, 14, one of them came from the Constitutional Act on the Supreme Audit Office, namely from the specific constitutional change and then from the resulting other laws, and then the other 13 concerned different sectors or parts of the Constitution, and only the care of the members of the subcommittee at all came the subject of budgetary responsibility without any processing at the meeting of the subcommittee. It follows that rather than respect the Constitution of the Czech Republic and treat it, with possible change, with the responsibility of a proper economic operator, and in this respect also in the field of law, we treat it as an ad hoc one. I don't think that's possible. I am convinced, and I am not avoiding a thorough discussion of this draft constitutional law, I believe that it is necessary here to clearly define the rules on how long it is possible to work with deficit management, how to disengage from it and in what steps to monitor the individual parts of the state, but also the self-government under the Constitution, which has the power to decide, to respect a certain financial framework. This is certainly a matter which belongs to every responsible farmer, but also to every responsible politician. I would therefore like to say that the debate over this law is certainly very important. I will not resist - and I think it will be in the speech of my colleagues from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia as well as from the point of view of the text of the constitutional law itself - a discussion on this subject, in the independent constitutional law. But on the other hand, I dare say that without, at the same time, passing this law to second reading, to set up a commission for the Constitution or for the amendment of the Constitution, albeit temporary, which should end a stage in this parliamentary term of ours, forgive me that word for somebody pejorative, revision of the Constitution, but let's be aware that our Constitution has been paying 23 years and, in fact, the biggest debate about its functioning was after ten years. I remember the rather extensive seminar at the time in the Senate, which evaluated the various provisions of the Constitution and where we are moving in that constitutional system. But since then, I'm sorry, it's more of a salami method, and it's never suitable for the Constitution. Therefore, in addition to wanting to have a very serious debate on this subject, not only in the Constitutional Legal Committee, but I think it is in the Constitutional Committee that would need us to set up together with the Senate, because you cannot approve the Constitution simply by having a simple majority or a constitutional majority in one chamber. When I look at the situation after the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, after the elections to the Senate, it is obvious that we may put together a three-fifth majority in the Senate in a much more complex way than the three-fifth majority in this Chamber when it offers, under certain conditions, support for this constitutional law on one side of the TOP 09, and we declare our willingness to participate in this debate, even if it is not a priority for us, but on the other hand, we realize that it is not possible for the Czech Republic to evolve in a way that will lead to some financial collapse. And in this regard, we also want to share in this text as good economic operators. [[18.10 hours]] All on my side. And as an accompanying resolution, I would like to propose to the Chamber of Deputies that, after the first reading of the decision on the guarantee committee, on the decision on how we will proceed, adopt the accompanying resolution, or I will leave it to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic has set up a temporary committee for the Constitution of the Czech Republic for this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u9	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Stanjura's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u10	Thank you for the floor. Before I comment on the financial constitution, I would like to return to my previous speech on tobacco tax, when I said that all members of the coalition voted against the amendments. It's not true. So to those of the government Members who voted six months ago to accept the amendment that either I or then colleague Fiedler tabled, I apologize. I got knocked down. Next time, I will use the correct wording of almost all government MPs. I felt obliged to say that. I am coming to the financial constitution, which is the long-term political objective of my political party, the Civil Democratic Party. In the last parliamentary term, we pushed through the government and sent a draft financial constitution to the House. Whoever is interested will find it as the Parliamentary press number 821 of the last parliamentary term. The aim was and is to create binding rules for political representation, which will prevent excessive borrowing of the Czech Republic. I must say that during the last parliamentary term, we worked hard to win the constitutional majority, and for several months the Ministry of Finance worked with a working group, where representatives of all the MPs went during the last parliamentary term. I went there as my political party, too. We negotiated there for about eight months and registered and were prepared to make comments and amendments to the opposition together with them. There are four opposition clubs in this Chamber of Deputies. At the time, at least at the beginning, we had a majority of 118 votes, you have 111, but it's still not 120. At this point, we can really compare four proposals. I'm going to try to do this so that it's clear how we're going to proceed and why we're going to do this. The first proposal is the 821 House press from the last parliamentary term. The second proposal was submitted by colleagues from TOP 09 in this parliamentary term and it is House press number 24. In principle, it contained the comments of the opposition that we were prepared to make. The House rejected it, if I'm not mistaken, first reading. The third is the proposal of the Ministry of Finance led by Andrej Babiš, who went into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. The fourth proposal is the press that we are discussing today, that is, the House press 411 and the subsequent House prints 412 and 413. Before I make a detailed comparison of the proposals, I must say that there is a substantial difference between proposal 3 and proposal 4. It is the absolute victory of the Social Democrats over the ANO movement, because the proposal sent by the Ministry of Finance to the commentary proceedings, although it does not respond to us, there have been otherwise established boundaries, there have been no gradual limits, but at least it has maintained the debt brake. In fact, what the government eventually adopted after a commentary procedure is an empty document. There's a title left. There's nothing else. I've been looking at Word, I've already forgotten it, but I have a feeling that constitutional law has 900 words, there's nothing but general formulas, there's one number 55 percent. So congratulations to my colleagues in social democracy, they never wanted it, and they were able to enforce theirs in this coalition government. I remember those debates about how today's Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek went to see Social Democrats during the last parliamentary term. The only reason we're actually discussing this is because the Euro-Hungarian government considers it an obligation because it's in the fiscalcompact, so it's actually from duty and not because it's convinced. We're going to propose a second reading of amendments that will bring it back not to our proposal, that we would not succeed, or maybe also, but to the proposal that left the Ministry of Finance, because the proposal, if it goes the way it was at the Ministry of Finance, I can promise for our club that you have 16 votes, and that's what the constitutional majority can achieve. And now I'm going to try to document the Social Democrats' victory on the facts. I don't take it from them, it's their political opinion, it's their legitimate political opinion, but it's a shame they pushed him into a coalition to such an undiminished degree. Basically, the whole financial constitution, or whether we call it the Constitutional Responsibility Act, solves three things: the National Budget Council, the debt brake and the management of self-government. The easiest is the National Budget Board. In principle, the four proposals do not differ when they differ only in detail. In principle, it is said that they will monitor the management, there are mandatory materials to which they will comment, the composition of 3 to 5 members, we discussed this, it is basically one, they will be voted by the Chamber of Deputies, the number of employees is estimated between 10 and 15, the small office, the costs are estimated somewhere between 20 and 50 million. Kč. That means the proposals are essentially identical. I'm not saying that we can't argue with any detail there, but there isn't really a political dispute in the area of the National Budget Council. And why would he exist? In principle, she has no competence except that she is required to express herself on certain materials. Now I'm going to skip to the third, and that's the management of cities and municipalities. There are many experienced representatives of the government sitting here. The real economy of municipalities, cities and regions is not a budgetary problem of the Czech Republic. It just isn't. In the 25 years that the municipalities and cities have run, and in the 15 years that the regions have managed, their debt is comparable to the one-year deficit of the state budget, plus minus. That's just the way it is. Cities, municipalities and regions, unlike the state, pay their debts and either stabilize them or even reduce them in recent years. And we all know that the key item in debt is the capital of Prague, and it is logical. When we add three other big statutory cities, Brno, Ostrava and Plzeň, they actually make up almost half of it, and we're somewhere roughly - don't grab me completely for that number - about 60 billion. And for everyone else, it's roughly the same amount. The proposals are very similar again. They only react when there's 60 percent GDP debt. In principle, they say that governments with a large deficit, a long-term or medium-term deficit, if they do not reduce their debt, will be reduced and retained by some part of the budgetary determination of taxes. The proposals do not differ in principle, they are very comparable. The only thing -- the government is tougher. We have proposed that this should apply from 1 January 2020, that is, if a new representation comes after the next municipal elections to have two more years to do something about it. The Government proposes 1 January 2018. But it is a matter that does not prevent us, if necessary, from supporting this law, because, in turn, 2018 and 2020, there is, in principle, sufficient time for the municipalities to prepare themselves. However, we will propose that it be from 1 January 2020, that the next council of cities and municipalities also have at least two years to see the state of their management and, if necessary, take some measures, not lose 5 percent of their budgetary determination of taxes in the first year. I believe we can agree on that. The biggest problem lies in the debt brake. We have not only heard here today, but also in the public debate over the past few weeks many take-off words about what will happen when a number of 55 percent of GDP is reached. I agree that the number is not key. We proposed a range of 40 to 50 per cent first, we were prepared to raise it by five percentage points after consulting with the opposition, which means that the borders could be 45 to 55, so we are actually close to the number that the Ministry of Finance proposed in the last phase and approved by the government. [[18.20 hours]] However, if you look at the Parliamentary press 412, which is not a constitutional law, which has great magic, because every government majority can change it as it pleases, and there is no emphasis on the constitutional majority anymore, so the debt brake proposed in that accompanying law does not concern the government at all. But nothing at all. There's a kind of rubber formulation. I suspect that today's chief counsellor, the former Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, who was famous for saying "sources are" and the wording of his political conviction, and I respect him, I just don't share it. There is such a rubber formulation that if the debt is 55 percent of GDP, the government must present a budget that will ensure sustainable public finances. And for that, everyone can put in whatever they want. That unnamed former Prime Minister of the current Prime Minister today, he just thinks that resources are, so for him, every budget that the government proposes, with any deficit, is consistent with the rubber definition of sustainable public finances. Then, of course, there are measures for municipalities and cities, the government has not forgotten that. That's not a big problem in the overall package, but she didn't forget that, that's what's there. There's a health insurance obligation, but the government has no obligation there, no automatic, let alone brakes. We wanted this, and we want those brakes to be arranged to be constitutional, and if political representation in the future is constitutional, it usually agrees that it needs to change the parameters, why not. I don't actually remember the Czech Government, which had a constitutional majority in both chambers. But it can happen, nothing against it. We are proposing no 80 per cent of Members, but a constitutional majority, as it is very accustomed. Now let's try to compare the four debt brake designs. [[Cough.]] I'm sorry. Our proposal says five bands, but the first band was below 40 percent of GDP and the law stated that nothing was going on. Then there was a second band of 40 to 45 GDP and it was just that the government would present a justification for the debt increase in the Chamber of Deputies, present to the Chamber of Deputies the measures taken and proposals for the following year. The scope of the measure shall be consulted by the National Budget Board and the provision or limitation of the granting of State guarantees shall take place. I'm sure we can agree that this is no big brake for any government, no big restriction. Then in the original proposal in the Houses of Print 821 there was a third band between 45 and 48 percent of GDP and there were mandatory steps. First, that the government decides to bind 3 percent of the expenditure of the approved state budget, with the fact that this does not affect the specific items listed, such as: pensions. As far as I know, this government did it last year, that it tied some funds, and so did previous governments. It's not dramatic again. Pensions have been removed from this. Then it said that if the excess of 45% is repeated in the next few years, the government will freeze state budget spending, state funds and health insurance companies. The salaries of constitutional officials are reduced by 20 per cent. I am aware that this proposed measure is particularly unfair to senators who are not discussing the state budget at all and also to the opposition, respectively. Members who do not vote for the state budget. But we took it systemically, it was proposed to all constitutional officials, except for the judges. After the experience of almost every government's efforts to reduce or freeze the salaries of judges, it was proposed there, except for the judges. And it was also proposed to freeze total spending, wage spending in the public administration. This does not mean that every single employee in the public administration will freeze their salary, but their total expenditure. This means those who make some job savings can easily increase wages in such a case. was the third zone. The fourth band was between 48 and 50 per cent, and the government would be obliged to present a surplus or balanced state budget. I'd like some peace after all. kdo doesn't care, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u11	I understand, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for peace of mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u12	It's really serious material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u13	We have a 411 press, it's a constitutional law. So please let the speaker speak incessantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u14	Thank you, too. I just want to explain the following procedure that we will not propose any rejection or return. We will vote for the release of all three materials, but I want to explain clearly what strategy and tactics we will choose to negotiate with the government coalition in committee. In the original proposal, band 48 to 50 per cent of the government had an obligation to submit a surplus or balanced state budget, budgets of state funds and health insurance companies. The same would apply to local authorities, i.e. regions, cities, municipalities, and other public institutions shall not accept new long-term financial commitments. And then the last band, more than 50 percent, was when we suggested that the government come to the House for trust. Which, for a functioning coalition, whatever it is, shouldn't be a problem. If the government has a majority, it would come back for trust, but if the coalition works, it will gain that trust. But it is some kind of verification that although debt has risen above a certain amount, the government still has the support of the Chamber of Deputies. No constitutional majority, a simple majority, as voted on trust, and that is the simple majority of Members of the Chamber of Deputies present. I mean, there's no need for 101 votes, but a simple majority. We have proposed exceptions, many of them are preserved, so that this does not apply to the period of the state of danger, the state of war, it does not apply at the time when two quarters in a row would fall by three percentage points, respectively. by five percentage points in three years. This would also not apply at the moment when the state hits a natural disaster and new, unplanned expenditures are needed by the state. We also suggested that one year after the announcement, after the appointment of a new government and the announcement of trust, there should be a moratorium, i.e. that the new government should have one year after its appointment to proceed to rescue debt brakes. Members of the TOP 09, House press 24, in this parliamentary term actually used the proposal de facto. They just raised all those boundaries by five percentage points. This means in the proposal rejected by the House, at 55 percent the government had to ask for confidence, at 53 percent it had to submit a balanced state budget. The difference was five percentage points and was based on long-term consultations with the opposition during the last parliamentary term. The third proposal, which was drafted by the Ministry of Finance of the Minister of Finance, went into an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, had one limit of 55 percent. Our position says it's not good, but why not. There is no reason for us to vote against it. Although we think it's better to have a few boundaries and prepare gradually. The issue is not whether it will affect this or the next government. Our proposal from the last parliamentary term also intervened until the next government, as well as this proposal, so they are similar and there is no dispute. We can make an amendment, we can debate it, but there would be no reason for us to vote against it. The proposal contained a debt brake in the constitutional law, unlike the one that came in the Parliaments' 411 press, and there were five automatic debt brake measures. Firstly, if this exceeds 50 percent of GDP, the government will submit a proposal for a balanced or surplus state budget. Which, with the proposal where we said 48 to 53, differs by just 2 percent of GDP, and that's correct. That's something we can support. Secondly, these are local authorities, that they must also approve balanced budgets. We would support that, too, because that is also the right thing to do. For others, other public institutions were not allowed to accept new long-term commitments, and this, in turn, differs by only five percentage points. Then, again, there was a reduction in the salary of constitutional officials of 20 percent in the proposal that left the Ministry of Finance, so it copied the previous proposals again, with only a different value of GDP debt. Then there was even a very courageous measure, which I thought was called. A white dog so the Treasury can retreat on something. Even the Ministry of Finance suggested that the government - not the House and the Senate - could reduce pensions at the time of the debt of 55 percent of GDP. Not to reduce pension valorisation, not by law, but by executive measures. [[18.30 hours]] We really weren't that brave. Hat down before the courage to suggest this. But quite surprisingly, the Social Democrats blocked it in the context of a commentary procedure and apparently coalition negotiations. And then there was also a ban on granting further state guarantees. When you compare the proposals, ours from the last parliamentary term, colleagues from the TOP 09 from this parliamentary term, and the proposal put forward by the Minister of Finance into a commentary procedure, it can be said that they are essentially very similar. Really. There aren't all the measures, it's not gradually, it's all of a sudden, and I'm saying that if we agree to return to that bill what was at the beginning of what came out of the Ministry of Finance, we're ready to support the constitutional law. If not, it's fun. So we just have the title. That's the kind of European policy. We'll approve something, but we won't require it. I don't know if you've noticed that France has been given two more years to resolve its budget deficit. Can you imagine what would happen to us if the European Commission conducted a complaint procedure with the Czech Republic from 2008 to 2015 that it did not meet the Maastricht criteria as a member of the euro area and that someone would give us two more years in 2015? I think everyone knows we'd never get away with it. So as they say in one famous book, all animals are equal, only some are more equal. And that's reality. That's why I'm saying that this government proposal is an absolute victory for the Social Democrats. They're ugly, like they're ashamed of their opinion, but they really don't want it. They don't believe it. It's a legitimate political tool. I'm just surprised that the ANO movement has completely cleared out its positions. When the rapporteur spoke of the debt brake, I ask him publicly to find in the draft constitutional law the only duty of a government that constitutes a debt brake. And not just in the constitutional law. Let him find it in the accompanying law. When the government makes it easier on itself by not needing a constitutional majority. It is clear from all this that we are ready to have a constructive debate. It's really our long-term program point. And let me just remind you of the public debate in the Czech Republic. In 2009, everyone laughed at us because Brusel didn't want us to. At that time, the Maastricht Treaty was dealt with, and among other things, the fact that one State must not guarantee the debts of other states. Where did we get to in those six years by 2015? As soon as Brusel approved it, the mainstream in Brussels is for the fiscal pact, the financial institution, the debt brake, so suddenly those who laughed at us, and now I think of colleagues from the left, say: that's how we accept it. But they're such a smart hobby. They proposed to approve, but there's nothing there. I saw the headlines on TV again today, virtually. The report, "Today the Chamber of Deputies will discuss the draft financial constitution which introduces an obligation for the government to submit a balanced budget" That was in the Ministry of Finance's proposal. There is no such thing in the government's proposal. Mr. Volný and I fought about it on TV. In the end, it turns out that I'm right that the chief counselor put his rubber definition of sustainable public finances into the bill. On behalf of the civil democrats, if the government wants to support our club for constitutional law, we will demand that the debt brake actually works. We are also prepared to support the proposal originally sent by the Ministry of Finance to the commentary procedure. Maybe with some modification. It doesn't have to be like this. We're ready to discuss this matter. However, if you leave this toothless bill that is a mockery of the name of the financial constitution, we will have to vote against it. Although some commentators tell us that if you don't have a bull, at least take an ox, I don't think that's the right analogy, because in this case there is absolutely nothing in the draft constitutional law and in the implementing act. So I ask my colleagues from the government coalition if you are serious about this and if you want to adopt a financial institution, these are boundaries and parameters that we are prepared to discuss with you seriously, because I think the Czech Republic needs it, and not because it wants Brusel, the European Commission, but because it is good for the Czech Republic. [[Nesroz.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u15	I thank Mr Stanjur. Before I give the floor with the rapporteur's priority right, allow me to state, for personal reasons, Daniel Korte's apology from 5:30 to 19:00, from 17:00 to 19:00, Ivan Gabala, from 18:00 to 19:00, for the reasons of Hnyková's negotiations and from 17.45 to 19:00, Mrs Golasowská. Mr Václav Votava now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would perhaps begin by responding to the words of Mr Stanjura. He said that they were not invited to make this proposal. I do not know if the Ministry of Finance has consulted the opposition parties on this proposal. That's probably not a question I should be answering. It is true that back in 2011 or 2012, if I remember correctly, I was a member of the committee that was at the Ministry of Finance. Together for our party, I was there with my colleague Mládek. There were other parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies. But I have to say that when we made a lot of comments there, eventually the result of the whole law was a law where our comments were not. At least the comments that were most important, let it be about the individual boundaries, the limits on the debt brake, but also a number of others. I think that if anyone here misses being invited to the Ministry of Finance to discuss it, we were there, but it was no good to us at the time, because none of the other comments that we had were there came out of the proposal anyway. I would like to say quite clearly here that long-term sustainable budgets are the aim and policy of social democracy. That's what we've always said, and that's the way it is. And even the current coalition government, in its programming declaration based on the coalition treaty, has applied to the responsible management of the state's funds and has therefore taken up budgetary responsibility. The financial constitution with the so-called The debt brake is therefore a measure that requires the obligation to maintain long-term stable public budgets, and therefore public services that ensure good health, education, pension or social systems and a number of other public services. Perhaps it is worth mentioning that at constitutional level, only nine European Union states have a financial constitution. The Czech Republic will therefore be assigned to these States. Other states have a financial institution either implemented only at the legal level, i.e. in the ordinary law, or they do not have it at all, because they may not be members of the euro area. We are also not members of the euro area, we will have a financial constitution. I'm sure we'll have it. The proposed constitutional law on budgetary responsibility follows the decision of the Government of the Czech Republic also to accede to the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic Monetary Union, so-called. the fiscal pact, albeit with delayed effect, and this was mentioned here by Mr Kalousek, with the deferred effectiveness of the budgetary provisions, such as Titles III and IV. Of course, we will have to comply with these Titles III and IV after joining the euro area. This accession is actually an expression of a symbolic return to the mainstream of European integration. It is also a sign-up to the fact that the Czech Republic wants to join the euro area. [[18.40 hours]] It is also basically a strategy of this government. We want to be a full partner of the European Union. And when we joined the European Union, we also have a commitment to adopt the euro. Membership in the euro area will, of course, also mean for us the fulfilment of those deferred provisions of the fiscal pact, which also concerns the amount of the structural deficit and the correction mechanism when it is exceeded. But I took a bit of a turn, and I think it was important that I recall that the Czech Republic applied to the European fiscal pact after the former right-wing coalition did not want to sign up for it. And it was the Civil Democratic Party that didn't want to accept the fiscal pact and enter the fiscal pact. That's what you have to say. I would like to comment on some of the comments that I have registered in particular from among the representatives of the Civil Democratic Party and the TOP 09. One of these arguments is that the proposed threshold of 55 per cent is not strong enough, it is mild. I would like to point out that the proposal is fully in line with the requirements of European law, and therefore there is absolutely no reason for our legislation to be more stringent. European regulations talk about stable budgets. There is no discussion of the budget that it must be surplus, that it must be balanced in this case. The main criterion is the public debt threshold of up to 60 per cent of gross domestic product, and this is what the current coalition has signed up to. Of course, it also applied to reduce deficit and maintain government budget deficits below 3% of the domestic gross product. I think the government is more stringent in this regard. 55 per cent is a more stringent criterion than is required at all. The current debt is at the limit of 43 per cent of gross domestic product and the forecast by the Ministry of Finance for 2015 speaks of 41.3 per cent. The government is reducing its debt. I believe, and I think quite rightly, that the 55 per cent threshold may not be reached at all. Of course, in a responsible approach to public finances, in a responsible fiscal policy, and that is what the current government coalition is about. Another argument of the opposition is that the proposal of Nečasův' government, or Kalouskův Ministry of Finance, at the time when the country's debt exceeds 40 percent of its gross domestic product. A colleague of Stanjura also talked about it. A little smiling and hypocritical, of course, is that our debt was already close to 40 percent in 2012. It reached a limit of 45 percent. It is completely pointless that there should be a limit of 40 per cent of gross domestic product back then. The opposition, especially the Civil Democratic Party and the TOP 09, is often hypocritically fond of criticising the current government for debt. It is enough to remember that it was their right-wing governments that owed the Czech Republic double the situation in 2007. 900 billion to 1.9 trillion. So, folks, that's something you need to remember all the time when you're talking so flamingly about us indebting this country. You're the one who indebted her. We have seen the disastrous results of restrictive fiscal measures in the previous right-wing governments, which have also applied this kind of senseless economic policy. It applied them at the time of the hardest effects of the economic crisis, as well as in the subsequent period. The policy of cuts leading to the reduction of consumption extended the period of economic recession and subsequent stagnation of the Czech economy. We also strongly criticised this form of irresponsible economic policy at the time of the proposal for a financial constitution from Kalouskův's workshop. That is why we could not proceed to a version of the financial constitution that would apply this kind of restrictive rules. Rules leading to the binding of the economy and the impossibility of implementing a proactive economic policy. I believe that austerity cannot be deployed across borders, i.e. in an equal manner, as the previous proposals of the financial constitution have done. I think it is a matter for every government to set its political priorities, which also means its financing priorities. Therefore, the coalition's proposal sets out targets for the government, which are stable public budgets, but leaves every government, and I want to emphasise and repeat here that each, including future government, other government, is a space for setting its budgetary priorities. I expect, of course, a rich debate for the Committee on Budgets, not just for the House plenary. Of course, when it comes to setting the debt brake and the measures related to it, it has already fallen here, but also to the position and competences of the National Budget Board. Definitely a sensitive provision is the management of local authorities and measures in which their debt would exceed the value specified in the law. So if there is no reduction in their debt as envisaged by the bill, I think it is definitely a matter for debate, for debate. Of course, I register opinions from individual municipalities. I also register the opinion of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, which in this certainly will also speak for individual municipalities. I think that if the opposition is talking about budgetary responsibility and today's opposition parties have, in the past, tabled their financial proposals, the proposals of the financial constitution, although we were critical of them at the time, and I think the reasons for our criticism were quite clear, we are certainly prepared to look for a way to reach agreement. We are prepared, of course, to look for this agreement, because it is a constitutional law and 120 votes are needed for Members and for us to also approve the constitutional law in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u17	I thank the rapporteur and we will continue the debate with the fact that I have two factual points and then the Minister of Finance's application. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Stanjura, then Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ready speeches have the problem of assuming I'm gonna say something and then reacting. The chairman of the budget committee protested the argument, said the members of the ODS, so far I was the first to perform for our club, and I didn't say anything that he turned away. It's a shame he didn't listen to me when he sat about six feet away. I said that I thought our proposal was better, but that we were prepared to vote in favour of the proposal prepared by the Treasury Department of Andrej Babiš. I didn't talk about it, and I didn't criticize the 55 percent limit. I said I had different opinions about this, but that it is not crucial and that the 55 per cent limit is not such a thing that would not allow us to support the proposal for a financial constitution. So please, let us listen and protest and disprove the arguments that the opponent will use in the debate, not those that somebody thinks will use in advance. And I said that we were suggesting something about the following governments as you suggest this government, and I didn't criticize it, I just said it. And I really didn't complain that I wasn't on any committee. I merely stated that the government had not tried at all - not the Ministry of Finance, the Government and the government coalition did not attempt to discuss this proposal with the opposition before sending it to the Chamber of Deputies. But I really didn't complain, I'm not taking it to any expense. It's just making you a problem that the debate is going to be longer and that the consensus will be looking for maybe longer and maybe more complicated. [[18.50 hours]] So please, let's listen to each other. I didn't even talk about bands or criticize 55 percent, I just said that we think our boundaries are better, but that we accept the decision as well. What I cannot accept, however, is the attitude of your political party, Mr President of the Committee on Budgets, through the Vice-President, who does not really want this. Even though he's got these kind of take-off words. So what is it - a budget that provides sustainable financial public budgets?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u19	Mr President, your time for a point of fact has come to an end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u20	Tell me what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u21	Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Yes, I heard that, Mr. Ambassador. Anyone who exceeds a two-minute limit will be disabled because that is the order of procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President of the Committee on Budgets through the President, I do not wish to argue with you about the parameters you are talking about. You believe that it is possible to buy permanent growth and prosperity for a higher deficit. I don't think so. I think it's irresponsible to the future. Neither of us are the bearers of one single truth. After all, that will show the future. I'm much more irritated by your neighbor's attitude, who verbally says he wants to save, that he doesn't want to owe the future, and he does. In this regard, you are more transparent. But please don't let us get any ideas. When you were talking about debt over 45 percent in 2013, you were talking about nominal debt and you forgot to clear it of a debt reserve that was more than 300 billion at the time. for well-known reasons. We both know that for the purposes of this law and for the purposes of the fiscal compact, a debt cleared of this debt reserve is important. That's what counts, no other. The fact that you reduced your debt - and I did the same in 2013 - was only due to the high debt reserves that had to be accumulated and the functional treasury that your neighbor says is not working. But that's just a cash operation where supplies are taken from the granaries and consumed. That's no savings. Please don't confuse the terms here. Today, the debt for the purposes of this law is 43 percent. You have spared nothing, you are increasing the structural deficit, and you are aggravating the de facto state of public finances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Now the rapporteur's point of fact, then the Minister of Finance, Vice-President of the Government of Babiš. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u24	Thank you for the floor, I don't want to prolong it, but my colleague Stanjura has just escaped and I wanted to speak to him, by your means, of course. I listened to him very well, but he didn't listen to me because I said that I was watching from the media the statements of the various representatives of the Civil Democratic Party and I registered, for example, Mr Skopeček's statements. And that is the representative and expert of the Civil Democratic Party. And he harshly criticized the 55 percent limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u25	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u26	Thank you, Mr President. So I'd like to make a statement about the problem in general. Karusely will, too. Don't worry. [[He responds to notes from the benches, followed by the laughter of some Members.]] Firstly, it is absurd for me that the European Union is telling me to be budgetaryly responsible. I know that, because in business, you have to be budgetaryly responsible, or you're gonna go bankrupt. And I don't know who I'm with, but I'm gonna do it. So that's one. Secondly, I could really use - Mr Stanjura is not here - so why didn't you accept it, the proposal? If you had made it 40 percent or 35, it would have made it easier to negotiate my budget. What's on the table here is a coalition agreement. We didn't clear out any positions because... I'll get to that. After the meeting with the opposition, it was made clear that the Prime Minister had dealt with you. And if he didn't act, I'm ready. Then I would like to mention - please, I'm always fascinated when there's a virtual debate. And most importantly, there are no correct numbers. Okay, first of all. For the first time since 1995, we've reduced the absolute debt. It's only 18 billion, but it's down. Secondly, we reduced the debt service, so I don't know where Mr. Okamura got it. We've reduced the debt service by 2.4 billion. Crowns. All this in a situation where I took over Financial Administration in decay, Customs Administration in decay. A state treasury that doesn't have accounting! He doesn't have accounting. Five billion were crowded in it. And also in a situation where there aren't all public institutions in the Treasury. If they were there, our debt would be about 100 to 120 billion. smaller, because the money is different in commercial banks. The Czech Republic is doing very well in terms of its position of debt today. If we had a treasury system, we would even be somewhere at level 3, 4 in Europe of the least indebted countries. And we are only at the beginning of the journey, because, of course, Mr Kalousek here was talking about the structural deficit, but he didn't de facto do anything about it. Because if he was managing the Financial Administration, the Customs Administration, if he had introduced cash pooling, central purchase, central property management, if he had implemented at least some tax collection measures, like we want to do control reports and reverse charge. Yes, the Czech Republic is today the leader of the tax agenda in the European Union. The commissioners know about this, politicians, MEPs know about it, we're writing to all finance ministers today about reverse charge. Yes, reverse charge, that's the cure for carousels, 3.2 -- applause. [[Resurrection and applause in the right side of the hall.]] 3.2 billion euros, that's 108 billion, folks. Every year. And the kobra intervened 14 times, and it was always on the carousel. So if we had a measure, so-called. a transfer of tax liability, so we would be approaching the target, and that is a reduction in deficit. So for me, all of this is a virtual number that can never happen in our government. Because if the debt brake is 55 per cent and we predict 41, so the difference of 14 per cent of GDP, we would have to have a deficit of 600 billion. and that's absolutely out of the question. My draft budget deficit for 2016 will be 70 billion. And I understand that Mr Kalousek is talking about a structural deficit. Yeah, that's important. I agree with that. I'd like one, too. But not by strangling everything, but we're investing, because there's also a huge investment deficit, and we've also released consumption. So, of course, all these measures will come in time. [[19.00 hours]] So before that, of course, the macro-economics were making a view, and they were always mantras - the surrounding states. But we're doing something specifically for the debt reduction. So what was said here, I fundamentally reject it, because debt is decreasing, deficit is decreasing, much more was planned for 2016. So it would be good if, really, if I say pragmatically here and admit error, I would like to live to see the opposition express itself objectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-021-999.u27	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš for his speech. I will not continue the debate. I note until the end of paragraphs 15, 16 and 17 that the first in the debate during its continuation will be Mr Miroslav Kalousek with a factual remark, and then they are properly prepared for the debate by Jiří Dolejš and Marek Černoch. Because in the morning, when we voted on a possible continuation after 19 o'clock, this proposal failed, so we cannot continue the negotiations. Allow me, therefore, to announce, under the Rules of Procedure Act, that tomorrow at 9 o'clock we will continue the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by replying to written interpelations with which Members disagreed. And the first, I think, is the interpellation of my colleague Ondráček to Minister Chovanec, the second, I think of the Prime Minister, if I'm right. So it'll be the opening of the day tomorrow. We'll continue the negotiations at 11 o'clock. There are fixed points. I presume that the members of the MPs will agree on a time when we will continue with these three items discussed. Have a good evening and I look forward to seeing you tomorrow.
