ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u1	214. The draft law amending Act No. 243/2000 Coll., on the budgetary determination of the revenues of certain taxes to local authorities and certain state funds (the Act on budgetary determination of taxes), as amended (the Parliamentary Press 416/5 - returned to the Senate) The Senate returned the bill with an amendment. We received his resolution as Parliamentary Press 416/6. I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. And once again, I ask the House for peace... Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of today's discussion is the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, the Chamber's Press 416. As you are all aware, the subject of the proposal is an increase in the percentage by which the regions contribute to the return of value added tax from 7,86 % to 8,92 %, with effect from 1 January 2016. The change remains in Annex 1, according to which individual regions of the Czech Republic participate in the defined part of the yield. The draft amendment was discussed by the Senate at its meeting on 3. 12. 2015 and adopted an amendment to it concerning the budgetary determination of municipal taxes. The basis of the amendment is an increase in the proportion of municipalities in VAT to 21.4 % and a parallel abolition of the 30% share of municipalities in the income tax of natural persons from the return allocated to the municipality according to the permanent residence of the person lodging the tax return. The effectiveness of these measures is proposed from 1 January 2017. This is a compromise option, which is not merely a simple increase in the share of municipalities in VAT, which was the content of the amendments tabled during the discussion of this press both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. Moreover, the amendment adopted by the Senate repeals the problematic parameter of the current tax system, namely the 30% share of municipalities in income taxes on natural persons from the return. The beneficiaries of this share should have been municipalities motivated to create appropriate conditions for the development of business. However, over time, because of the adoption of different legislative changes, this parameter has ceased to fulfil its function, which I can document on the following data. Only 23 per cent of the municipalities were entitled in 2014 to a 30 per cent income tax on natural persons in the return. 77 per cent of the municipalities should not have transferred anything to the DPPO's share of the return, or the Financial Administration transferred the share to the municipalities at the beginning of the year, but, at the end of the year, was compensated for by the remaining negative balance from other shared taxes. [[9.10 hours]] There has also been a decrease in the tax collection to which this share is linked. Moreover, the analysis carried out showed that the collection from this tax not only declines year-on-year, but at the level of each municipality shows its yield of considerable volatility, it is no longer predictable and therefore completely inappropriate for the budgetary purposes of the municipalities. The Ministry of Finance therefore agrees with the amendment and also dares to ask you for its support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteurs, in particular the Guarantee Committee of Mr Volný, whether they wish to comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u4	Madam President, colleagues, colleagues. This point was given by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u5	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but the noise is really big.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u6	I'm joining in support of the Senate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u7	Yes, thank you. I am asking the rapporteur of the next committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Věra Kovářová, if she wishes to comment. He doesn't want to. Okay. I am therefore opening the debate, and Senator Martínek will be the first to speak in the debate. I ask that other Members be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u8	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. My dear fellow Members, it is an honor to come before you with a bill dealt with by the Senate of the Czech Republic and returned to you for a new discussion. The Senate agreed to this for the following reasons. First, the Senate welcomed the increase in tax revenue for the VAT regions and accepted them without objections. Secondly, after a large debate, the Chamber of Deputies proposes to increase tax revenues for cities and municipalities too, and that is why it was forced to return the law to a new discussion. The amendment, which was finally adopted by the Senate, increases the share of taxes on VAT from 21.4 (?) 21,4% in combination with the abolition of the municipality's share of 30 per cent of the personal income tax on the return, which is allocated according to the permanent residence of the person lodging the tax return. This change is postponed with effect from 1. 1. 2017. The total contribution for municipalities from this measure should be between one and one and a half billion crowns in the coming years. The measure abolishing the income of 30% of the share of the tax on business individuals responds to the fact that the adoption of various tax exemptions, deductions have substantially reduced the collection of this tax, so if we are to compare it in previous years, from the original collection of about eight billion is now the collection of roughly one billion crowns. Moreover, this tax, and who is interested in it for a long time, knows that it is very irregular, very poorly forecasted, prognosisable. This measure also deals with one thing that, I must say, has been very troubling to the senators, it is that, at the moment when, and concerning it, your fellow Members, also you, when you submit a tax return, which you give yourself, for example, various deductions, which you give during the year, such as various gifts that you give to different social and other institutions, and then ask for a deduction, so paradoxical is that what you return to your wallets goes only, or until now, only from the pockets of your own community in which you live. So the state is so unhappy that it affects virtually 70 percent of the municipalities, and even about one third of the municipalities are in the sense that not only does it not collect any taxes from this tax, or does it not receive any income from this tax, but, on the contrary, because of these refunds, taxes are still being levied on other shared taxes. So it's obvious this situation has to be dealt with. At the same time, in the accompanying resolution, the Senate asked the Government to address this situation in the event of further relief and to prevent these reductions from further reducing budgets for municipalities. For these reasons, I recommend approving the returned press on behalf of the Senate of the Czech Parliament, as amended by the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u9	Thank you, Senator, and please to the microphone of Mrs Kovářová, who is duly logged in to the debate, and after that the Vice-President of the House of Gazdík will be prepared with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, in the Committee on Public Administration, the amendment has been approved during the discussion of this press, which increases the share of the revenue of value added tax to 21.4 % for municipalities and cities with effect from 1 January 2016. Their budgets would thus improve by some CZK 2 billion, which is not a stunning amount, but certainly not a negligible amount. The Minister of Finance Babiš did not agree with this proposal throughout the negotiations. I was sorry because I considered the arguments he made to be very weak. For example, the municipalities manage well that they have too much money in their accounts. I thought that it stems from the fact that the Minister has no municipal experience at all, and therefore he naturally underestimates the justification for the requirement of self-government in his own way. Meanwhile, the voice of former or current local ANO politicians is so weak that it cannot correct the decision of an inexperienced minister. There was simply no one to shout, "The king, or the minister, is naked!" I wasn't surprised. I'd be surprised if it was the other way around. However, then came really incredible news. Minister Babiš in the Senate supported the amendment, which will increase the proportion of municipalities and cities to 21.4 percent. In retrospect, I think the message was too good to be true. And it wasn't true. Or actually part of it. After getting to know the amendment, which was created by a hot needle in the Ministry of Finance and which was adopted by the Upper House, I understood that the Minister is broadly consistent. At least with its earlier positions on the amendment to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes in the last year. These attitudes are both renegade to the demands of municipalities. The minister may not be consistent with what he wrote in his movement, but hell, few people remember it anyway. For those interested, I would remind you that in the programme of the ANO movement, there is talk of strengthening the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities and cities and abolishing national grant titles. I cannot help but think that in political practice this programme is somewhat overlooked. That was an easy turn. In short, the Minister, who did not want to add to the municipalities, is consistent because the increase to 21.4 percent, even from 1. 1. 2017, on the one hand, there is no fame and, on the other hand, it is not clear whether there will be any increase in individual cases. Why? This increase is combined with the abolition of an incentive component of 30% of the income tax on the income of natural persons from the business, which the municipalities receive a significant part of what their income increases by. We can talk about exactly how many communities they're gonna lose. If it's 80 million, one billion, one billion 200 million or so much more. If the Minister manages to enforce some of the proposed measures, not that I particularly want to do so, I must admit that. Paradoxically, the more successful the Minister will be in this area, the less he will improve the municipalities. Improved selection will only be reflected in the state budget, which, of course, would be annoying from the point of view of the municipalities. [[9.20 hours]] The whole thing has one important dimension, which I have already pointed out above. Although, in summary, in the case of the approval of the Senate version of the municipality, some of them may record a decline, their tax revenues will be reflected negatively. I ask which municipalities they are, Minister. I exchanged some e-mails with Mr. Director of the Department of Territorial Budget Financing, Matej. In his last reply, he said: "Hello. The 30% share of municipalities in the income tax revenue of natural persons from the return is a very unstable element in the RUD system. It shows considerable volatility over time, both at national level and in particular at the level of individual municipalities. Its financial effect is unpredictable at the level of individual municipalities, because the annual changes in volumes that have demonstrated to specific municipalities are in tens and hundreds of percent, both upwards and downwards. In other words, individual municipalities have relatively higher collections on this RUD component for one year, while the following year is significantly lower or even negative. It depends on how many employees make a tax return, whether a businessman fails or whether, on the contrary, the CEO of a large international company moves into the village and does not pay a dividend tax there, for example. The exact impact number cannot therefore be calculated, which is actually one of the reasons why it is appropriate to remove this unstable element from the system." The director continues: "What is obvious is that 77 per cent of municipalities, over 4,800 municipalities, on this parameter of lines. For this reason, the Ministry of Finance uses the statistical methods of mean value using historical data on the use of this tax. The calculations were applied further to the tax prediction 2017. On the basis of this model, it was found that losses of over CZK 1 million should relate to 15 municipalities, with only two municipalities representing a loss of approximately CZK 3 million on tax revenues, which is marginal in relation to total tax revenues. Greetings, Miroslav Matej." I took the liberty of quoting almost the full answer from the director. I believe that the Minister will argue very similarly, which has also happened. What's important is the answer seems very rational, I must admit. However, it also shows that 23 percent of municipalities do not lose on this parameter. That's not enough. That's almost a quarter of the municipalities. Naturally, I wondered which municipalities they were and how much this change would translate into their budgets. I think that's a pretty normal question that offers itself. After all, do you, my colleague Volný through Madam President, know how the proposed change will be reflected in the budget of the Walk Plane? Do you, my colleagueFaltýnek through Madam President, know how Prostějov will stand? Does Mr Komárek, through Mr President, have any idea what the proposal made by Minister Babiš through Senator Martínek will mean for the municipalities in the Liberec Region? And does the Minister know what the Senate proposal will mean for Průhonice? Have you, colleagues, seen these calculations? Have you been introduced to them? I don't have to remind you that there have been very long and complicated debates in the case of previous changes to the budgetary determination of taxes. The arguments for and against were considered. Individual Members have requested a quantification of the impact of the proposed changes for municipalities from their constituency. I do not think it would be wise in this case to deviate from established practice, at least I will have an impact for municipalities, especially in Central Bohemia, a very important argument when considering how to stand up to the proposal. All the more so, that we are confronted with such a surprising proposal for me, which has not been discussed either in the committees or in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, which has not even been discussed in the Senate committees. That's just not how you make conceptual changes, Mr. Secretary. I cannot call this anything other than contempt for municipalities and cities. I cannot describe this as anything other than contempt for Parliament. Build us just a few days before the end of the year before such a decision. That's not a nice Christmas present. I really don't! You know, I have to agree completely with my predecessors on these issues, who, in principle, stated in the context of the 2007 amendment to the Tax Code that it is a mistake of the Ministry of Finance if the proposals are submitted late and there is not enough time to discuss them and discuss them. These are the conclusions that, in my humble opinion, are applicable in our current case. By the way, these predecessors, according to this publication, were Social Democrat Members named Bohuslav Sobotka and Radko Martínek. So much for a refill. Perhaps I would put an end to one more question, and that is an entirely incomprehensible role for me to play in the discussion of this proposal. an expert or working group for budgetary determination of taxes at the Ministry of Finance. If I am not mistaken, and if so, do not be angry with me for its creation was announced at the beginning of July 2015. Then nothing happened for a long time and this group met only in the second half of November 2015, i.e. a few days before the Senate proposal was discussed. I would like to stress that I have also taken part in this group's negotiations. A number of comments were made during the extensive discussion. It was all about it or not. Among the problems mentioned were the motivational component. If there was a consensus on anything, it is that these problems and their solutions still have to be debated for a long time and search for a viable solution. What was my surprise when Director Matej e-mailed me and subsequently informed me: "Dear Member, I would like to inform you that the Senate approved the RUD amendment yesterday with an amendment, which abolishes the problematic parameter of 30% motivation and also increases the municipality's share of VAT to 21.4 % from 2017. The Ministry of Finance will agree to the Senate version when discussing the proposal in the House. That amendment is also in line with the conclusions of the RUD Working Group, which met at the Ministry of Finance. If necessary, do not hesitate to contact me." So I didn't hesitate. You see, Mr. Director and I have been texting quite a lot, but this report didn't please me at all. After reading it, I felt like Alenka in Wonderland. I learned that the RUD working group, which met at the Ministry of Finance, had some conclusions. That's what caught me off guard as participants. I wasn't aware of any conclusions. [[9.30 hours]] I therefore replied to the Director that I would like to refresh my memory, for which the minutes of this meeting will best serve me. The minutes of the above hearing, however, were not approved to this day and sent to the participants. In parentheses, either it's been three weeks, so the Ministry of Finance isn't exactly working, or he's working on something else, maybe answering my interpelations, because the Minister doesn't participate in oral interpelations. I don't know, maybe the Minister will explain. It is true that distribution of cashiers for needed children does not happen itself and no one is better qualified for it than the employees of the Ministry of Finance. Some minutes for Members, Senators and representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities can wait. By the way, Senator Martínek, who became the bearer of the Senate proposal, did not attend the hearing at all. There is one other thing that I would like to draw attention to. It is the way in which the government is currently treating organisations such as the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities. At this point, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am a member of the Bureau of the Association of Local Authorities and I have worked with the Union of Towns and Municipalities on a number of issues. I dare say, successfully and constructively. Well, it is for these organisations that the government, specifically the Ministry of Finance, behaves very unkindly. Their consultations are only formal, opinions from people from practice are generally unheard of. Let's go to power. When I have votes, I'm right. Government and ministerial servants seem to know better. I don't think it's a happy approach, and I'd like it to be reviewed as soon as possible. That's a bit of a turn-off. I'm sorry. I would like to return to the original track through the following question. Can you tell us, Minister, which municipalities will be at this change in bits and by how much? That is information I consider absolutely necessary. Each Member of the Chamber of Deputies should have it at his disposal so that he can responsibly decide whether to support the Senate or the House version. And my second question, Minister, is closely related to the first one. Are you considering compensating this blackout for the affected municipalities? Thank you for your reply - and this time I would like to beg in the debate. In case you are unable or unwilling to present these data today, I suggest that you suspend this item until next Tuesday. I think nothing prevents us from continuing the negotiations after the extraordinary meeting, which is just on 22 December. And I look forward to the Minister's answers. I hope that this will be in the debate, because otherwise those who are addressed in his last speech cannot respond to his reservations or complaints and his lashings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u11	Madame, have you made a procedural proposal here which you will repeat according to whether the Minister will perform? [[Nonverbal response.]] Yes, very good. Mr. Gazdík's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u12	Good morning, dear colleagues. You have a proposal before you that is somewhat controversial. I wonder what you're gonna decide. Because in relation to the municipalities both senate and House proposal means whether we shoot the municipalities or hang them. Anyway, for the time I've been moving around and dealing with the issue of the budgetary determination of taxes, which is almost ten years ago, it has never happened that we would have a proposal before us that is not analyzed in any way. We have a proposal from Senator Martínek, who, I dare say, has not grown there in the last ten years, where he has stepped up to the budgetary determination of taxes. He was one of those who clearly said, and I can prove it on his quotes from specific publications and from specific media outputs that we should never submit proposals that are not sufficiently analysed, for which you do not know what impact they will have on particular municipalities and cities. It is good that the Chamber of Deputies changes the parameters of the tax system and adds to the municipalities. It is wrong for us to interfere without any analysis into the system itself without knowing what specific impact this will have on specific municipalities or cities. This is a procedure that is unscientific, and I dare say, also stupid. That's the kind of design we're facing here. Yes, both Senator Martínek and the Minister are right that the 30 percent of the file is outdone. For a number of municipalities, these revenues have to be replaced by income from other taxes in order to somehow repay the incentive component to those who submit tax returns. Let's have a serious debate about this, and it was one of the things that we discussed with the Minister a year and a half ago, and also for this matter, and I am grateful to the Minister for that, that was the Committee of the Ministry of Finance which was supposed to analyse these matters. The second point, which was to be analysed and which is also an important systemic change, but which had a previous analysis, was the system of including the number of pupils in schools in municipalities into the budgetary determination of taxes. This was set at 8 per cent, and the Commission's aim was to ensure that, after the new budgetary determination of taxes was in operation, at least two years later, we could see if it was set correctly. Because he was set to calculate academically. I don't know if it was supposed to be 7.5 or 8.5. And what it did in different size categories of municipalities that have or do not have schools or have more schools. That should be the main systemic change we should be talking about first. The other one we're talking about here, and that's the motivational file, which I'm sure we need to talk about, too. Because it's true that it's really unpredictable. But, frankly, value added tax is also unpredictable. Value added tax, if the Ministry of Finance, as it happened in the spring of this year, retains value added tax, taxpayers, VAT, so it will have a significant impact on the municipalities, as it did this year. And those mayors and municipal councils don't know if it's coming or not. Even less predictable is property tax. The municipality has no idea how taxpayers pay property tax, the tax office will never provide them with information about who the taxpayers are and how much they are in the village. So, overall, the system, how it's set up, especially in these taxes, is unpredictable. We're in a situation where we just cross off one motivational file without any compensation. I believe that the Senate has not really taken advantage of its opportunity here to be a more regional chamber, whose directly elected representatives come out of regions, municipalities and cities, by failing to pass one vote on the proposal for the budgetary determination of taxes to return to where it was before the introduction of the pension reform so that VAT revenue would be 23.58. Senator Martínek is lying a little bit in his opening speech here because he said that the aim of the Senate was to increase the tax revenues of municipalities and cities. In the current proposal he cannot, because there is no analysis, predict accurately. Saying words like that roughly or practically, he can't know what that means. He cannot know what this will mean especially in connection with the increase of deductible items on children. He can't know what it's gonna mean, whether the Treasury is gonna or won't collect higher taxes, whether it's gonna be able to fight tax evasion, or if it's not gonna be able to fight tax evasion. And the best, the increase that would have been, and that was not what the Senator was talking about, for which he probably didn't even vote, was an increase to 23.58 - which is exactly the parametric change that is currently needed, and the other systemic changes that are needed in the budgetary determination of taxes, but must not be without any analysis as this proposal is. [[9.40 hours]] Dear colleagues, you are before the proposal, where neither one nor the other solution is well. The only happiness in this case is that the changes are proposed until 1 January 2017, in addition to the changes in the budgetary determination of the taxes of the regions to which general agreement was held here in the House. I would like to sign up for the fact that if the Senate proposal, which is not analysed at the moment, simply cuts the motivational component, does not introduce anything that would replace it in any way, and we do not know how it will turn out to specific municipalities, so if such a proposal passes here, I am claiming to be one of those who will certainly initiate a new amendment or amendment to the Tax Budget Act, which should be clear, analysed and which will not bring chaos to the budgets of municipalities and cities next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u13	I thank you and please to the microphone of another duly registered Mr Vilímec, Mr Votava will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u14	The Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, of the proposal on the budgetary determination of taxes, as submitted by the Government, was essentially based only on the increase in tax revenues for the regions. This has been presented all along, and since many Members have listened to the legitimate demands of the municipalities to address the issue of increasing the share of municipalities in the collection of value added tax, there have also been some proposals. The proposal, which was comprehensive, balanced and which, in a certain period of time, envisaged unification and an increase in share taxes even in the case of municipalities, had the support of both the Union of Towns and Communities and the Association of Local Authorities and the Association for Rural Reconstruction. This was quite unique because earlier most of one professional organization was opposed, the other was in favour, this time they were all in favour. We know well that the proposal was not finally adopted, nor was the partial proposal tabled by Mrs Kovářová, respectively. the Public Administration Committee. I looked at the voting record yesterday about the final version of the proposal. Thus, 160 Members voted on the final version in the third reading of the proposal, which basically added or added only to the regions. This means that all the MPs supported eventually, regardless of the fact that the municipalities did not enforce, they supported the increase in tax revenues for the regions. I'm saying this because something happened in the Senate. He first appeared in the Senate and was discussed in committees with almost unanimous support of the modified proposal that we submitted, which I was also co-authored in the Chamber of Deputies, which seemed to be approved by the Senate. At that moment, Senator Martínek, wrote to his colleagues that he was concerned that, in the case of a proposal with which the Minister of Finance did not agree, he would be approved and handed over to the House so that, in the case of this proposal, it would not end up being so that tax revenues for the regions would not be increased either. No one's ever seen anything like that. I didn't hear from any MP club that he wasn't ready to support an increase in tax revenues for the regions. Based on this assumption, I think he negotiated with the Minister of Finance, or the Ministry of Finance, an amendment which was tabled and which I consider a trap for municipalities, although the Ministry of Finance does not agree with that. I, on the other hand, strongly disagree and object to an article published by the Ministry of Finance. The trap is due to the fact that suddenly the Senate proposal increases the proportion of municipalities in value added tax, but completely interferes and completely cancels so-called. one of the motivational components. This means that it intervenes without any consultation with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, with the Association of Local Authorities, in the structure of the budgetary determination of taxes. The structure of the fiscal tax determination was established in 2000, the law is from 2000. Since then, the percentages have changed, even the criteria according to which tax revenues are distributed have changed, but they have never intervened in the structure of the budgetary determination of taxes. I cannot imagine that an ad hoc proposal that has not been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, which has not been agreed on by the Working Group, which the Minister of Finance has set up for proposals to amend the budgetary determination of taxes, which has not been discussed with the Association of Local Authorities, so I cannot imagine that such a proposal should have the support of the Chamber of Deputies. There was a call from Mrs Kovářová and from Mr Gazdík, a call for the Ministry of Finance to publish estimates for each community. What impact for each individual community, what impact the change the Senate version brings should have. I was part of the task force, the task force was convened twice. On 27 November 2014, the Deputy Minister Gregor said that he was not counting on any increase in the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities and that it was the will of the Ministry of Finance to deal with some partial matters, i.e. and sub-cases related to the motivational component. The meeting, I have the minutes of the meeting, was not conducted by the fact that the motivational file should be cancelled without any compensation. At the meeting, possible approaches to the incentive component were discussed, either by replacing another incentive component that exists, i.e. the distribution of tax revenues from dependent activity by number of employees, or that, in the event of the abolition of the incentive component, this will be replaced by an increased share of the tax not due to value added but to the income tax of natural persons. The representatives of the authorities demanded the Ministry of Finance, and I think it is technically possible for it to be separated in the case of the incentive component in order to separate those tax revenues that actually go into this item from entrepreneurs, from self-employed persons, from those who submit tax returns only as taxpayers of dependent activity in order to obtain tax bonuses. The Treasury says it's complicated, complicated, not impossible. It was agreed in November 2014 that a working committee would be convened or a working group, as officially called, at the latest in the first half of this year. It didn't happen and was called after the delay until Monday before last. I wasn't at the meeting because I couldn't participate. But according to the actors, at least the representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, there was no agreement at all at this meeting, no agreement at all with the fact that the motivational component should be abolished without compensation. [[9.50 hours]] What exactly is going on in the motivational file? Because Mr Martínek is wrong when he claims that all the tax deductions go to the detriment of the municipalities. It's not like that. The incentive component is 30% of the preferential income from the tax of natural persons on the basis of the tax return. Of course, if someone submits a tax return only in order to get back some tax bonuses or tax discounts, then it splits again 30 percent and then the remainder, as set out in the budgetary determination of taxes. So it is not true that, when the motivational component is abolished, all refunded tax discounts will be at the expense of the state alone, as Senator Martínek and Members wrote in the information on this amendment. I just want to add that a Senate proposal without any deeper analysis, without support from the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, or the Association of Local Authorities cannot be so brutally interfered with the budgetary determination of taxes. I don't even know what's going on here. Maybe this is about intent to look outside like the one who's adding to the community. But it's actually gonna be different. If we vote on a Senate proposal, then we will vote more or less on whether we leave tax revenue to the municipalities under the existing rules, that is, in autonomous terms, the same amount, or probably to them in the future, and no one can calculate it, we will partially take income. This is a decision for the Chamber of Deputies. I certainly do not recommend that we go against the municipalities at the moment, because the proposal does not support the municipalities. And if we can't figure out how much the municipalities would actually lose, only the so-called numbers are mentioned here - 2 billion. estimate of the return on value added tax, minus 1 billion. less tax on the motivational component, which is an estimate, which is both very inaccurate and which is significantly influenced this year and last year, therefore the decline in the item by, of course, applying a tax deduction under the decision of the Constitutional Court working pensioners. The Ministry of Finance publishes the treasury implementation of the state budget each month. We can look at November's performance and, above all, the arguments that are made there, when the Ministry of Finance estimates the impact of those working pensioners and their return of about 2.2 billion. CZK per income tax per natural person on the basis of a tax return. Will this impact continue in the coming years? Will working pensioners file a tax return when they have already granted a tax credit to pensioners? I don't think so. Look at the other thing. When we try to discuss the e-booking of sales law, the Minister of Finance argues, and you can look at the explanatory report on the proposal that in the case of the introduction of only the first two groups, i.e. restaurants and retailers and wholesalers, this will bring 5 billion to personal income tax. extra crowns. We are suddenly working with the idea that, on the contrary, personal income tax will fall on the basis of a tax return. So either A pays or B pays. We can't say anything else when we're discussing electronic records of sales, and we can't say anything else when it suits us if we want to cancel the motivational component for the municipalities. I admit that the proposal cannot really be supported. It is a škoda that the Minister of Finance was not present at the financial conference of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. Too bad. After all, on Wednesday morning, the state budget did not approve. The state budget wasn't approved until this afternoon, so he could be present. He could have heard the arguments. He could share 400 mayors who were present there, his findings and his arguments in favour of this Senate proposal. He didn't use it. What was the result? The result was such, and I will read that the Council of the Union of Towns and Municipalities thanks the Senators for showing their efforts to table amendments on the budgetary determination of taxes, but it will not support this proposal, and, on the contrary, supports the basic proposal that it is prepared to negotiate very patiently and rigorously with the Ministry of Finance next year in cooperation with the Association of Local Authorities, so that the VAT contribution will actually increase to at least 21.4 percent without making any other changes that are detrimental to the municipalities. If we approve this proposal, we will go against the municipalities, actually avoid the possibility of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, eventually the working group, to discuss these proposals and present some conceptual material that can be approved in the Chamber of Deputies next year. There is no rush, because the effects of this Senate proposal on municipalities relate equally to 1 January 2017. That is why I will not understand why this proposal, which we do not even know, is being promoted at all costs, will have specific impacts on particular municipalities. That is why I cannot support such a proposal, and certainly not even the Civil Democratic Party will support it. If this proposal is not accepted, the Senate version, of course, we are prepared to support the original government proposal in this situation, because it is ultimately better than what the Senate is trying to enforce in its version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u15	Thank you. I see Mr Beznoska's actual application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would support, to the max, what has just been said here. That the Senate proposal is a very bad proposal and we should clearly reject it in our vote. I am a little sorry that our amendment was not adopted in the debate and in the discussion of the amendment, I mean my colleague Stanjura and colleague Vilímec, who dealt with what the municipalities certainly deserve, namely the increase in income from the share of value added tax. The proposal was in two steps, there was an increase of 1 % to 21.83 in 2017 and to the final value so that it would return before pension reform to 23.58, until 2018. So we should think in a systematic way. The proposal that came from the Senate is non-systemic, it is an intervention in the budgetary determination of taxes and, as such, we should clearly reject it immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u17	Thank you. Now it's just a few technical matters. Minister Chovanec votes with replacement card No. 13. Allow me to load my apologies: from 9.35 to 11 o'clock, for reasons of work, Mr Šarapatka, Minister Valachová apologizes from today and tomorrow for reasons of work, Minister Chovanec apologises from today on 15.30 for reasons of work, because of illness Mr Plíšek apologizes from today, Mr Soukup apologizes from 18.30 today for personal reasons, Mr Volný apologizes from today's meeting from 14 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Pfléger apologises from 18 o'clock today for reasons of work, and Mr Grospič apologizes from today on 13 o'clock for reasons of work. And now I am asking for a microphone from Mr Votava. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u18	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, unlike my previous speakers, I will support this Senate proposal. The Social Democracy Club will also support him. You know, budgetary determination of the tax, it's kind of a constant evergreen, the issue keeps repeating itself. It must be said that the budgetary determination of taxes will in fact never be entirely fair to all municipalities. Controversy, of course, triggers the abolition of an incentive contribution of 30% from the income tax of individuals from the tax return, but he doesn't actually fulfil the function he was supposed to perform anymore. It is far from fulfilling and the income tax on natural persons in the returns continues to have a declining trend. And it has already been said that the withdrawals are small, the yield is small and essentially reaches nearly one billion crowns. It must also be said that not all municipalities have the opportunity to create conditions for business. In a number of municipalities, a businessman who pays income tax on the basis of a tax return cannot have his registered office. That's true. 80 percent of municipalities simply do not have such options. And my fellow speakers, Mr. Vilímec here, says: The people disagree with the Senate proposal. What community? All the communities? I mean, that's not true. Of course it's a prediction. It is an estimate of how much change can yield, being an additional income for municipalities of one and a half, two billion crowns. That's true. It may also be worth pointing out, and I said that the 30% contribution is actually linked to the businessman's residence and not always the businessman's residence is consistent with the businessman's establishment. That's another thing. This is taken into account if we continue to think about how else to set parameters for the budgetary determination of taxes. And I'm sure it's necessary. I have no doubt that there should be a motivational element. It should be. But this element really survived. And there still needs to be some solidarity, because, as I said, most municipalities just can't reach, they don't have the conditions, they don't have the conditions to have entrepreneurs on their cadastrals, so they have, like, an establishment on their cadastrals. It was mentioned here that a certain group was set up to amend the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes. Yes. I was also involved in this group. Among other things, there was talk about the proposal made by Senator Martínek. I thank him for making the proposal. The Ministry then admitted that the incentive contribution would be abolished by increasing by a certain part that the share of the value added tax for municipalities would be increased. There were representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. There were representatives of the Association of Local Authorities. There were quite interesting proposals to change certain parameters, how else to construct budgetary tax determinations. For your idea, the Union of Cities and Municipalities came up with, for example, an increase in the share of VAT, which was probably the biggest discussion there was. Corporate tax to bind to the registered office of a legal person, real estate tax, introduction of a tax on the market price of the land. That was another suggestion. Introducing a share in excise duties, a new autonomous municipal tax. These were the proposals of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. Of course, there were proposals from the Association of Local Authorities, which suggested, for example, extending the structure of shared taxes on environmental taxes to excise duties. And if I quote from the background material, as the Association of Local Government has therefore submitted its proposals, it has, for example, such positions: rámcový agreement with the position of the Ministry of Finance on the existing adjustment of the coefficient of sharing of income tax on individuals. Indeed, this incentive element does not fulfil the role originally assigned to it. This is one of the statements of the Association of Local Authorities. Or a constant negative attitude towards the introduction of new incentive elements within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. The principle of equality of all municipalities. So it can be seen that, indeed, the budgetary determination of taxes is a rather complex matter. Looks are different. And I think it's a good thing the group's working. Of course, she should have, and she must have some kind of performance. And I believe that the outcome will be from this meeting of this working group and we will come up with some changes in the parameters of the structure of the budgetary determination of taxes so that it will suit the municipalities better. But I say again, it will never be entirely fair for all the municipalities. I guess it never will be. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to forget my point yet. My colleague Gazdík here spoke very deeply and said: We do not even know if the Ministry of Finance will be able to collect taxes so as to ensure that a share of VAT is raised so that the funds will also grow in municipal cash registers. Of course, Mr President, if you prevent us from introducing measures to combat tax evasion, then, of course, the funds will not reach as much as we imagine and as the measure, so let us assume by monitoring reports and sales records. So please do not prevent the introduction of these measures. In the end, I don't think you're even interested in fighting tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u19	Thank you. At this point, I'm registering five factual points. With the first, please, to Mr. Vilímec's microphone. Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u20	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I must answer the rhetorical question which municipalities do not agree with this. The Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, which brings together 50 percent of all municipalities, disagrees. Nor does the Association of Local Authorities agree. Mr Votava, through Madam President, you can look at the press release signed by all the chairmen of the regional organisations of the Association of Local Authorities, which is called the Senate as a protector of self-government, which has failed. You can read this text. When Mr Votava spoke of the need for a working group that was set up for the budgetary determination of taxes to work, I do not know what will work if the Senate version is adopted. He won't work at all because there's nothing to work at. I guarantee that, in such a case, no further proposal can be made in this parliamentary term. And just to have an idea of what the impacts are, for example, at least this was published by the Ministry of Finance, although they claim they can't do it, the impact on one particular city that was pierced in the presentation is the impact of the abolition of the motivational component according to data from 2014 on the capital city of Prague is almost 700 million crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u21	Thank you. I prosit you, Madame Kovářová. Mr. Beznoska will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u22	I'd like to respond to my colleague Votava. The question was: What communities disagree? Well, we'd quite like to find out, too. Unfortunately, we don't have a list in hand. What does the income of municipalities look like in this particular motivational folder or their losses? Why isn't he available? I asked for it, and I basically didn't get a list. I've been rejected! We all know that the motivational element survived. That's what was discussed in the working group. And it said that it has to be discussed for a very long time and that it is very problematic to cancel this folder. And all of a sudden, from day to day, we have a cancellation of the motivational component. If we say we want this for all municipalities, then why hasn't our proposal been supported to increase the VAT share of municipalities to 20,4%? Colleagues, we had him here. We could've raised it, and it would've been pretty quiet. [[10.10 hours]] There was no talk in the working group about Senator Martínek's proposal. As far as I know, it was said that it would be possible to cancel this incentive component, but then also that it would be good to raise the VAT share to 23.58. There were rumors that there'd be some exits from the working group. Please, nicely, I would like the Minister to give me a month's notice from this working group, where there are conclusions. And if you're saying that it respects the conclusions of this working group, if it's not yet agreed, the entry, then how could you include it in the proposal that it's okay like that? And the last one I won't forgive. Connecting the system of budgetary tax determination with EET support - it just doesn't belong to each other. The RUD system is a very complex system and it is simply wrong to apply to EET.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u23	Thank you and please now with Mr Beznoska in fact. Mr. Pavera will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will join the crowd of those who are plotting to get the facts so we can get the impact numbers that will cause a possible Senate proposal. I wanted to respond to my colleague Votava and confirm that yes, the budgetary determination of taxes can never be fair. I'll just remind you of some numbers. Young Boleslav at the first big change of RUD to 1. 1. 2001 lost 188 million from year to year. Crowns. Other changes in 2008, 2013 were thus supported by municipalities between 2 and 10 thousand. inhabitants at the expense of the largest municipalities in the Czech Republic. So it's balancing something to balance the system. Again, I remind you that very simply and very easily we were able to help the municipalities in those two steps, as was the proposal made by the three Members for the Civil Democratic Party. We would have made it to 23.58 in 2018, which is roughly 10 billion. CZK extra for our municipalities. And one last short remark. The municipalities really do the best they can. I'll remind you of one number. The municipalities are indebted to about 89 billion. CZK 6,200 municipalities. I remind you that we will produce this debt on a national level in one single year. So we should redistribute the money and go where it is most effectively used, and that is in the budget of the municipalities, into the budget of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u25	Thank you and please to Mr Pavera's microphone, Mr Kučera will be ready. Everything is factual. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u26	Have a nice morning, ladies and gentlemen. I also respond to my colleague Votava because he won't give it to me. The budgetary determination of taxes is a complex process, on which we have agreed several times. And all of a sudden, in three weeks, the law will change here without discussing anything. Isn't that a little obvious? I think it is. That even Minister Babiš here was clearly saying, "Let's make a group, we'll get back to it next year and see what we can do about it." And suddenly from the Senate Group, there's an idea coming from the Social Democrats that leads to the fact that there's something behind it. And I think there's really something behind it, some anger at some businessman who gives his taxes to some community. Or what else would it be? Because it's really a nonsystemic decision. I hope you will support the original proposal that we approved in the Chamber of Deputies, even though I was against it. And I am against the fact that we have not supported an increase in the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities. We all know that the regions need to increase the budgetary determination of taxes, and we have all supported it. But they also need municipalities. And if you live in your communities and with your mayors at least a little bit, please support another amendment next year on the budgetary determination of taxes, which will bring more money to municipalities and cities so that you do not have to ask for subsidies, but can plan meaningfully for the future and improve your municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u27	Thank you, and please, with Mr Kučera in fact. Mr Novotný will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u28	Hello, thank you for your word. Allow me to respond briefly to my previous speaker, Mr Votava. Mr Votava, through Madam President, what effective measures to improve tax collection do you mean, which are we defending? You mean the Balkan news that didn't bring any more VAT in the Balkans? That's the only thing we're defending. And I think everyone's gonna appreciate it. While you, the government coalition, under the leadership of Minister Babiš, of course, have presented the outrageous budget where you have decided to feed the hackle of the state budget, you have decided to feed the taxpayers' money and the money of the municipalities and at the expense of the municipalities. In that budget, you have an unreformed pension system, an unreformed social system, an unreformed health system. And you need community money for this budget. That's what this is about. I would like to remind you that this is not the first law and the first amendment in recent months that goes against municipalities. I will remind you of the upper law, where you decided to take more money from the extracted minerals into the state budget at the expense of the municipalities. You turned the same affair into gambling. More money for the state, less money for the municipalities. You simply don't give a damn about these municipalities, Mr Votava, through Madam President! And Minister Babiš, through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u29	Thank you and please to the microphone with Mr Novotný in fact. Mr Votava will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u30	Madam President, colleagues. One of the key roles of the Senate in our constitutional system is to be a kind of insurance and to ensure that the legislative process is carried out as it should. Undoubtedly, within the process, it is legitimate for the Senate to come up with such a proposal as it comes up with. But the form and the fact that at the moment we do not have any quantifications and, as people elected in individual regions with some roots in the municipalities and with responsibility to their constituents, we are unable to look at some predictions as a result of our possible decision and, in that sense, to fulfil their fundamental role - for me, this situation is totally unacceptable. In some 13 years of political activity, I do not remember any proposal being made in the area of fiscal tax determination, which would not be accompanied by at least some framework estimate, predictions, quantification. This has never happened, it has always been part of the basic culture of discussing this issue, although it has sometimes happened that even the tables of quantification have been a little politicized and based on assumptions that may not always be confirmed in the future, there have always been such tables and we have been able to make decisions based on something. Our connection to the regions from which we operate is important to me. And in principle, I can't imagine being willing to comment on something that doesn't have such an attachment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u31	Thank you, and please, with Mr Votava in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u32	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond to my colleague, Mrs Kovářová, whom I otherwise appreciate for her determined struggle for the benefit of the municipalities. She said how VAT can be related to the measures we are doing. Well, of course VAT returns are related to those measures. And now I'm talking about a control report, now I'm talking about electronic sales log. Because, of course, if we manage to limit tax evasion, it will result in higher tax revenues and, accordingly, more municipalities will have a percentage. That's total logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u33	Thank you and please, in fact, to the microphone of Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u34	I would like to respond to my colleague Votava, whom I also appreciate, of course. However, I guess he didn't listen well to what I said. I said the tax system doesn't agree with EET at all. Of course, VAT is one thing and it then brings to the municipalities. However, the overall system of budgetary taxation responds to the economic situation as a whole. We can't change it based on how it's chosen or not chosen. Sometimes the municipalities, and this turned out in a period of crisis, simply had reduced incomes, and the municipalities breathe and their budgets with the economy. But the fact that they have a larger share in some tax and the economy is doing well allows them to create reserves for a worse period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u35	Thank you. We have, for the time being, exhausted the factual points and now, please, Mr Bendl, who is duly entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u36	Thank you for the floor. I see that both the rapporteur's desk and the petitioner's desk are empty, the Minister of Finance is not here, and Radko Martínek, as the senator submitting and defending this proposal, does not have much time to engage in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u37	Mr. Congressman, the senator is in the hall, I assume the Minister has gone to the bathroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u38	Well, I'd rather not comment. Maybe another photo? Some selfies that we would once again put in place of the proposal under discussion for budgetary determination of taxes. [[Joy in the House.]] I think we need to get back to the beginning of why we are discussing this bill at all. The government said we don't want a second pillar, we know what to do with pensions, we take money from pensions somewhere else, and maybe we'll come up with a concept sometime. And since they were supposed to solve pension reform, or the former government assumed that all budgets would be involved in this, so that we would have those pensions once, especially regional leaders would come up and say: we want the money back, you should give it back to us. That is why a political trade called - we will add funds to individual regions, because they certainly need them. No offense. Even the opposition, and it fell here several times, voted in favour of the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes and the increase in funds to the regions regardless - and now I will give you a practical example of what it looks like in practice. The Central Bohemia Region, where I occasionally take part in the regional council meeting, has already incorporated the funds from this law, which we are discussing, into its expenditures and revenues. A relatively non-standard thing, because the law is neither valid nor effective, but the leadership of the Central Bohemia Region, the representatives of the KSČM and the social democracy who rule together in the coalition in the Central Bohemia Region already know what to do with the money that the Chamber of Deputies has not actually approved. That's a fact that's indisputable. I have to tell you, because I was here at first or second reading commenting on this proposal that it is a political trade that is to take place especially before the regional elections, so maybe I will not surprise you by the fact that the structure of the Central Bohemian draft regional budget confirms this. Perhaps you would expect that the 600 million crowns that the 3.5 billion will receive from the Middle Bohemia will go to support education. Perhaps you would expect it to go on to significantly strengthen transport service or investment in transport. But those of you who are pragmatic know that it is not. Even less money goes to education than it did in 2008, and if you look at budgets, the tax revenue of the 2008 budgets is roughly comparable to 2015. And if you look at the structure of the expenditure of the Central Bohemia Region - where, by the way, it is sympathetic, in quotation marks, the sum of CZK 48 million for the violation of budgetary discipline in the event of European money drawing, so that the state or the Chamber of Deputies will contribute to this by strengthening the budgetary determination of taxes - the funds will go mainly to the subsidy funds in the municipalities. I quote, 300 million more than this year will go to the various municipalities next year in the Central Bohemia Region. Perhaps you will point out that this is a matter for the Regional Council, which should ensure that the funds from the individual funds of the region are not only received by the mayors according to their political legitimacy, and must be taken care of by the council. But what I am sorry about, and it really turns out, is that it was a dedicated change that does not support systemic spending in areas that individual regions really should finance, but it is not happening. In addition to the Senate's proposal, matters relating to municipalities. Unlike many of my previous speakers, I am not surprised that social democracy is trying to dampen the motivational component within the budget. It's already been dropped. It's been done several times in history, after all, the left always does - it takes those who have something to give it to those who have nothing, and in between, there's just some zone. This is a typical example, and the left-wing government, or perhaps the left-wing Members today will support this proposal, which says: "We do not even care that we do not know the consequences of what this will actually do to the municipal budgets, and we will give effect to this measure on 1 January 2017.' We were able to spend the whole year trying at least to try the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Municipal Authorities and other organisations representing individual cities and municipalities in the debate with us, with the Chamber of Deputies, or with the Ministry of Finance and with the Government, to try to find at least a little bit of the same position. What's been created here is obviously just some kind of political mist. It was necessary to fulfill the assignment that says: the headlines of the individual articles in the newspaper must say the senát has made sure that the municipalities get some money. It's no use, it doesn't matter that the Union of Towns and Municipalities doesn't agree. It doesn't matter that the Association of Municipal Authorities doesn't want it, it doesn't matter at all, but the government has to give them something, or social democracy or the Senate, without it being discussed. That's the principle I'm already concerned about. Why, then, if this is to be effective until 1 January 2017, why don't we use that time, and I think we should use that time to set up a strengthening of the budgetary determination of the municipalities. If you don't want it since 2016 - it's possible by the regions, I don't know why it can't be done by the municipalities. Or so I know - because it's the fog that needs to be created in order to get into those headlines that we didn't bail on the community. But you ditched them. You just want to keep this quiet, and now you're gonna tell a poem about how you supported the budgets of cities and municipalities for two years. Houbeles. It's not true, and it's contrary to their opinion. And again, I'm not surprised you're liquidating the motivational file. I know my colleague Martínek, we once fought for public administration reform, so I am not surprised by his leftist opinions and I am not stunned by them. But in practice, I think we should just do everything we can to get some motivational component to support the development of business, to be in that system. It was minimal, but it was. [[10.30 hours]] You're destroying her with this next blow, and you're preventing yourself from using the year before us to debate to change the situation. That seems very unfair to me, and that is why I cannot vote in favour of the Senate proposal because I am convinced that next year we can devote our debate to strengthening the budgetary determination of municipal taxes, if you do not want to strengthen them from next year, perhaps because it is not before municipal elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u39	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you, on behalf of the TOP 09, for a break of 30 minutes, that is, up to 11 o'clock. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u41	Yes, I'm interrupting negotiations until 11:00 p.m. when we continue this point. Thank you. Otherwise, I note the factual remarks made by Mrs Kovářová and Mr Grospič, who will be next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good morning. Time's up for recess. Before we go any further, I'll read the note that came to me. Today, from 11:00 p.m. for work reasons, Mr Igor Jakubčík apologizes, further today from 11:00 p.m. 45 to 13 hours for medical reasons, Mr Karel Fiedler apologises, and today from 15 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Nina Nováková apologises. We will continue the debate. I note two factual points here. The first one is registered by Mrs Věra Kovářová, so I'm here to erase it. He's not checking in. Another point of fact is made by Mr Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say by your means, Mr Vice-President to Mr Bendl, that I also take very seriously the budgetary determination of taxes and the budget of the Central Bohemia Region, although I am not a representative of the Central Bohemia Region. I'd like to say the important thing. The budgetary determination of taxes is essentially incorporated in the budget by an alternative. And I believe that it is incorporated in the same way as in budgets in other regions. This means that it is expected that if the amount is spent on something, or, of course, if this law is not approved, the budgetary determination of taxes, it will be different and the region is ready for it. I would like to say that the biggest problem of the Central Bohemia region is that despite the economic crisis and the significant reduction in the income of the region, the budget has managed to keep it essentially within the limits, not to deepen the debt of the region, and the biggest problem of the Central Bohemia region is the loan, which was created during the reign of Mr Bendl, and the region of 4 billion and 2 billion for hospitals is actually burdened until 2025.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u44	Thank you. So now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Bendl. He is not here, in which case Mr Karamazov duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, in the upper chamber of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the drafts of laws and their amendment will sometimes succeed in discovering various formal and logical inaccuracies, which we, as the House, will often recognise and we will adopt the Senate text of the law. However, I believe that, in the case of the amendment to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, colleagues of the senators shot off a little in the other direction. Yes, the Senate's proposal is at first glance in line with what we have long been calling for as the Civil Democratic Party, namely, after settling the budgetary determination of taxes not only towards the regions but also to the municipalities. But this is really just a first glance. On the one hand, although there is to be a slight increase in the share of municipalities in the gross return on value added tax from the current 27,83 % to 21,4%, on the other hand, the Senate also proposes that the so-called "government income" should be excluded. motivational items which account for 30 per cent of the income tax share of natural persons. I am literally stunned by the arrogance with which the Ministry of Finance approaches the municipalities. He's literally planning on cutting off a significant proportion of their income overnight. The ministry is no longer interested in how the municipality's resources are limited. It is no secret that municipal budgets are already often tense. The mayor's budgets are not just planned for one year, but for a longer period of time. They need to know when they can be indebted to build a sewerage system, for example, or to make another big investment that they need in their home. Now, without further explanation, without further discussion, the state of the city, the municipality wants to turn the money around. Questions on how they will finance their projects, how they will ensure development, but the Ministry is no longer dealing with routine maintenance. I am surprised that the socialist government completely ignores the social aspect of the legislation presented. My home is Pardubicko, where I could name a number of small towns that are fighting for their existence. They don't have a lot of income from tax collections. Some of them are run by a loose mayor, a man who has his own job and has his own community in his spare time. Once again, I could name the measures that the government proposes from time to time. Measures that burden the smallest self-governments with unnecessary paperwork. Ministers often forget that it is in small villages that life is harder. The residents here have worse access to services, education, employment. It is no wonder, therefore, that the countryside is suffering, and the inhabitants of these places, which often have a long history, are leaving. Surely there is no restriction on investment in these localities on how to make the countryside attractive to young and active people. On the contrary, the State should invest in the infrastructure of remote areas to prevent the emergence of excluded sites. Now the Ministry of Finance turns its back on the municipalities when it does not hesitate to prevent the municipalities from developing them. They will not have money to repair communications, culture of public space, networking and further development due to the new budgetary determination of taxes. Dear colleagues, let us keep these arguments in mind and reject the Senate bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u46	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared by Mr Zahradník, who is now duly registered. I'm sorry, the Minister of Finance is claiming priority rights. Please, Minister, step out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, an incredible debate. I think the performance of the last speaker was like, I don't know if he lives in Bohemia. Please, what are we talking about here? We, like the House, approved the RUD for the county. And we made it clear that the municipalities and cities will be dealt with since 2017. There were amendments in the Senate that suggested raising the parameter to 23.58 - what, of course, would have an impact on the budget of 10 billion, and then there was a compromise proposal by the Senator, and it was not even counted that we would be dealing with the RUD. And again, the proposal is 2017. We want to deal with 2017, but this came out unplanned, as a compromise. So I would really like us to tell each other the truth. They didn't say things that weren't true. [[11.10 hours]] The essence of the Senate amendment is the abolition of a problematic parameter, where municipalities receive 30% of the income from the income tax of natural persons from the return. This means the self-employed and employees who file confessions. And it is not true what Mr Bendl said here that the Association of Local Authorities does not want it. I have a letter from August 31, 2015, signed by . Radim Sršeň, the first Vice-President of the Association of Local Authorities, writes to Deputy Minister Gregor: We greatly appreciate the continuous work of the Ministry of Finance on updating the Act 2433/2000, hereinafter referred to as the Act on budgetary determination of taxes. I would therefore like to thank you for all the information provided in the correspondence of 13 July and 28 August. At the same time, I would like to express the framework agreement with the position of the Ministry of Finance on the existing adjustment of the natural person's income tax sharing coefficient. Indeed, this incentive element does not fulfil the role originally assigned to it. In the case of municipal budgets, there are often very uncomfortable fluctuations affecting investment development. So in your letter from 13. 7. In addition, you are calling for us to publish any new proposals for the introduction of incentive elements that would lead to innovation in the current situation with an announced cancellation of 30% of the shared national income of DPFO. In this context, it should be pointed out that the Association of Local Government of the Czech Republic has a constant negative attitude towards the introduction of new motivational elements within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. I base this opinion on our programme principle of equality for all municipalities. So it's not true. The village agrees. Because municipalities have a problem with that. And once that motivational element was plus 8 billion, and today it's one billion, plus it's a coincidence. So it's not true that communities don't want it. The community supports it. Well, I don't understand why they don't say the truth here. And I'm sorry I wasn't at the union. Yes, there was a budget, I was sitting here, and then I went to the hospital to get an exam. And I'd like to go because I expected the municipalities to thank us for the above-standard tax collection. With emphasis:) Superior tax collection. Fifteen. 12. 2015, that was yesterday, we selected 7,6 billion extra VAT in public budgets. And from that VAT, the municipalities have 20,83 percent. And 15. 12. 2015 we collected corporate tax by 13,6 billion. extra. So don't say we don't collect taxes anymore. We're collecting the tax at 112 percent, folks. One hundred and twelve percent! About yesterday. And we also collected an extra $962 million tax on income. So, overall, we picked about 22 billion. Plus! And out of that, municipalities and cities and regions have a much higher yield than we're talking about this changeling. It's considerably higher. Yes, so it would be good for us to say it as it is. So no one was arrogant. We're very helpful. And, of course, we set up the committee, and Mrs Kovářová is right that civil servants have their pace of life. So I texted Matej right away, so here's the entry. I'll give it to you here. They brought it to me in an hour. The clerk's slow. So they're speeding up, the entry's here. But you didn't say everything we talked about on that committee. You didn't say I called you to support the EET. That EET is VAT and corporate tax, not physical. Lawyers! So you do everything against the municipalities, against the EET, the municipalities have a lot of money, and you even call an emergency meeting for a check report that's net of VAT. So you're performing here and you're still saying, poor village. But we're doing something for them. We collect more taxes, 22 billion. more, and we propose a check report that will bring at least 10 billion. and EET in time 12 plus 6 and gamble 2, so that's 30 billion. per year. So if you want to help the village, then finally support the EET! And don't make trouble with the inspection report. That's where you wake up after a year, it's approved, and I don't know why an extraordinary meeting is actually being called for. So the municipalities, when I recapitulate the development, over the last 10 years, their revenues have increased by 42 billion, the regions, when compared, the regions have not yet reached 2008 level, and the municipalities are above 2008 level by 15,7 billion. So I'm sure we support the municipalities. I am, of course, ready to talk again about the RUD for municipalities since 2017, because that is what we agreed, and what was created in the Senate was actually unplanned, by chance, a compromise by insensitive changers, which would obviously have a big impact on the budget, and it's some kind of compromise, and I take it some kind of kick to the debate on the RUD for 2017. So I don't think it's true that we're arrogant. On the contrary, I support the municipalities, I also live in the village, as someone here says, yes, it works well in Průhonice. Also in other municipalities. And, of course, there's a tendency here to show some of the communities that run worse and throw it at taxes. It's not true. And I look forward to telling you the exact balance in January. 'Cause we're gonna collect the taxes by the end of the year. And the balance will be even better, so the municipalities will get even more. So once again, the RUD community, the cities do. We always said 2017, we're talking about 2017. It's some kind of compromise. Of course, we are ready to continue discussing and working. And also, Mrs. Kovářová, you're the one who claimed the entry, and I'm going to give it to you now. But you know you're getting all the information in advance. You're the most active, all the questions, we'll inform you. For example, 14. 12. 2015, it was Monday, at 11.16 hours we sent you an answer to quantify the impact of the changeling in the Senate. I'm not reading it here. But it is a significant part that on the incentive element 77 per cent of the municipalities, that means 4,800 municipalities of the lines on the incentive element. And we want to change that. So we want to help these 4,800 municipalities, and for them it's a plus, we're raising more taxes, so for everyone, it's a plus. So I really didn't understand the debate that was here because it's completely disconnected from reality and reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u48	Thank you. I'm now registering three factual points. First, my Lady Černochová, Mr Dolejš will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry for what I'm about to propose to the senator, but I'm making a procedural motion to interrupt this point, to keep it for Friday. In the meantime, Minister Babiš and Mrs Kovářová will discuss things in the gallows, and we will have new information here on Friday morning from what they say. We have three military laws ahead of us today. Defense Act, Reserve Soldiers Act, Armed Forces. These three laws, please nicely, must be discussed in whole, it is not possible to divide these three laws. We have an hour and a half left until noon break, or a break that was announced by the electoral committee. That is exactly what I think is the time when we will be able to discuss these laws with dignity. Therefore, I beg you all politely to sign off, so that we interrupt this point even after the military laws. We will try to have the military laws discussed as soon as possible. We've been discussing them for a long time, so I don't think there may be any more discussions here. But we have to make them all three, we can't select them. So I'm making this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u50	I will put it to a vote, but only, Madame, I need to clarify, because you said Friday, I would like you to propose an hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u51	One alternative is to discuss the three laws now, to negotiate them, and after them to return to this interrupted point. The second option is, if this point doesn't reach its turn today, so feel free to place this point first on Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u52	Okay. I have two procedural proposals here. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering an application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. I have two procedural proposals to vote on. The first is that we interrupt this point, we discuss three third readings of military laws, and then we discuss this point. Am I right to say that, Madame? [[Yes.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposed procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 283; 157 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 44, against 75. This proposal was rejected. The second procedural proposal is that we interrupt this point and discuss it this Friday as the first point. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of a procedural proposal like this, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 284; 159 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 43, against 84. This procedural proposal has also been rejected and we will continue to discuss this point. I have two more factual points here. The first is Mr Jiří Dolejš, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared with a factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u53	It's certainly not my intention to delay the decision on the laws of defence, but when I heard the Minister of Finance's speech, it didn't give me at least three sentences. We are discussing the budgetary determination of taxes, which is about the redistribution of tax revenue from somewhere. So it's pointless to vent the urge of the Minister of Finance to collect more taxes. And we decide between the House and the Senate version, and the Senate version, within a certain correction of the rules, gives more to certain types of municipalities and therefore less to certain municipalities. It's not about them. And maybe there are some political interests at the bottom of this decision, maybe somebody won't know why and how they voted. That's all. Otherwise, Minister, it has already been said here in the state budget debate, let us not keep saying how taxes started to be collected until you became Minister. It's nonsense. Basically, if there's no war or there's no system catharsis that we're going to release tax enemas to this state, then every government, whether right-wing or left-wing, essentially collects more taxes than the previous one, because the tax base is increasing because the economy is x percent larger. That's all it is. And if any government is to add to its good that it will collect more taxes, it would have to prove that it was its systemic measures and not that the economy is growing. Otherwise, it's really, really ridiculous, and if this helps you overcome the feeling, let's just say that you've messed up your life in politics, try to deal with it a lot more specifically and maybe you'll have a better feeling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u54	Thank you. Another factual point is that of Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u55	I wanted to say something similar. We discussed the working group at the Ministry of Finance for about an hour, and after an hour, the Minister also took part in the debate, and I must say that it was very interesting. He said that the budgetary determination of taxes was extremely complex and that he did not fully understand it, and then a half-hour political agony followed. So, Minister, we're supposed to keep our political agony in the foyer, said Mrs Černochová. So we have a budget tax determination here, not a VAT collection, and that's basically not what we're talking about here today. So focus on the tax system and not on political agitation! And if we want some kind of educational window. What happens if the economic crisis comes and the taxes are not collected? That is why there is a higher share of municipalities in VAT. So it's also so that you understand it a little bit, so you can see why we're fighting for it. A little more comment on Mrs Černochová through Mr President. We will certainly discuss this with the Minister somewhere else, but I also do not interfere with your debates, which I really follow with interest in these laws. So it's a serious subject. And here I am fighting for the communities, you are fighting for the soldiers, so please leave me and the Minister too. We like it when he gets out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u56	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read the note. Today, from 11.30 to 12.15 for personal reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes, then 16. 12th from 14.30 to 16.30 for working reasons, Mrs Radka Maxová apologizes, from 10.30 today and on Thursday the whole day Mr Jan Birke apologizes. Today between 14:00 and 20:00, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologizes for the reasons of employment of Mrs Kristýna Zelienková and from 17:00 today and until 12:00 tomorrow, on the ground of a foreign trip, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologizes. We will continue the debate. A real comment is made by Mr Volný, Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I don't really understand this discussion. Colleague Kolářová here claims that she is fighting to increase the percentage for the municipalities from the budgetary determination of taxes. After all, this proposal brings this increase once and for all. That it takes the compensation of one factor that has already lost its effectiveness and basically simplifies the whole view of this budgetary determination of taxes, there will simply be one VAT income, is the second thing. However, there is absolutely a billion added to the municipalities and you are calling for a meeting during 2016 to further increase that percentage. Well, what's stopping us? I think that this will clear this system, it will be a percentage of the budgetary determination of VAT taxes, it is now increasing, and in 2016, if the tax collection is what we expect it to be, this can continue to be discussed. I don't really understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u58	Thank you. I'll specify one note. Mr Grospič apologizes today at 14:00, not at 13:00. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Vilímec and President Stanjura will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to respond to the Minister when he argued that he was ready to address the budgetary determination of municipal taxes from 1 January 2017. I didn't notice, and I think he never spoke on this subject at the House plenary or at the Assembly of Cities and Municipalities. It was already held in May or June. He claimed to me that given that municipalities have a lot of resources, so he does not consider any increase in tax revenues for municipalities. Since, during the negotiations on the budgetary determination of taxes, we submitted a proposal concerning 2017 and 2018, and the Minister of Finance has politically seen and found it unsustainable because he has no arguments on why the municipalities should not join, he suddenly changed his position and claims that he was ready to address the budgetary determination of taxes to the municipalities from the start. I want to respond to one more thing. I will not respond to that letter, which I also have from the Vice-President of the Association of Local Authorities, and he has not read it to the end, but I do not want to deal with that now. I just want to respond to the sentence that the Minister has made. That we are now discussing the first excavation in the budgetary determination of municipal taxes. We're talking about an amendment to the law. It's not a kickoff. This is a serious amendment to the law that can damage a number of municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u60	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by President Stanjura, and Mrs Černochová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u61	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to some of my previous speakers' performances. Mr. Volný has confessed here that he does not understand. And I could tell from his performance that it was true. [[Fun in the hall.]] We agree he doesn't understand. The Minister of Finance here has opposed our amendments. That's what my colleague, Mr. Mr. Vilímec, has already said. And I don't know why the Social Democrat senators, or mostly the Social Democrat senators, played the scam with the municipalities when they claim to be adding. In fact, they take away, virtually. The Treasury can't count it. We heard that today. The Ministry of Finance wrote a changeling, Senator Martínek handed it over and pushed it through, and when we asked about the impacts on individual municipalities, we get the answer: Well, we don't really know how to do that. That changes a lot, once up, once down. So for Prague MPs - for Prague this means minus 690 miles. Crowns. 690 miles. The koruna is minus for Prague. Perhaps this is the answer for what is happening at Prague City Hall, when both YES and Social Democrats seem to be heading towards the opposition -- well, what we wouldn't make it harder for the others and take them almost 700 miles. Crowns. Prague representatives will not pay for this, but citizens of Prague. That's the only number that just went down. Our proposal was to add to the municipalities at the expense of the state. And here says the Minister, perhaps even the Senator - we will add to some municipalities at the expense of other municipalities. That's exactly how it is. They're taking some of the municipalities again so they can add others. They don't care, they say they don't know which municipalities they're gonna take what it's gonna be. They do not care that they are in the middle of the parliamentary term, that they will complete the projects they have run with in 2017 and 2018 as they want to implement their political programmes. I absolutely don't understand. I'm just saying, the communities didn't fall for the gum or the trick. That's why no one supports it, at least from the official authorities. I'm sure we'll always find someone, an individual, who writes a thank-you letter to the Minister of Finance. Whatever!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u62	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, your time. [[Member of Stanjura: Thank you.]] Mrs Černochová, Mr Petr Bendl will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u63	Thank you. I would like to apologise to Mrs Kovářová through this, Mr Vice-President. It wasn't meant to be anything wrong with her. But I really find it undignified that the benches behind me are empty, isn't there an interior minister who doesn't care about the municipalities? Isn't the Minister of Regional Development here who isn't interested in municipalities? But on the contrary, I think the constitutionalization of today's agenda, or the agenda of this meeting, should have been completely different. I mean, we already agreed that the military laws would be here last week on Wednesday. And you keep putting it off! You are a government coalition, we as opposition can only help you in this and we can try to move these things forward with you. I was completely embarrassed that the Minister of Defence did not vote for my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u64	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Martin Novotný, will now be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u65	Thank you for the floor. I listened carefully to what the Minister of Finance said. Again, I understand the high left-wing decision with which I, as a person who is not a convinced left-wing politician - because the principle that you are putting into this law today and which you support here, take it from those who have something and give it to those who have nothing. That you've been doing this with effect since 2017, I think that's stupid. And I also think it is necessary to use that year 2016 to adapt the legislation on budgetary determination of taxes towards municipalities to try to find consensus. Nor is it clear from the letter read by the Minister of Finance that this particular Senate step would have majority support among the municipalities. A colleague of Stanjura described it very accurately here. The Minister of Finance agreed that he didn't really want to add to the community, and he doesn't mind taking something away from the rich, even if he doesn't know how much, and adding it to the poor, because it's not at the expense of the state budget. What he's telling us is that at least we don't know who it is and in what amount the municipalities are concerned. I beg you to at least be able to deliver this to us as soon as possible, because it is one of the key things that we have always had on our desk when we were dealing with the budgetary determination of taxes. To know the implications of the decision. This one's sewn with a hot needle. It's just a political gesture, but it doesn't have a ratio.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u66	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Novotný. Mr. Plzák will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u67	Nice still in the morning. I just want to draw attention to one aspect of why some of the impact table is so important to us and how the money will spill over. Those concerned with municipal policy so they suspect that the next period of European subsidies contains an element of the urban dimension as one of the priorities. However typical of the European constructivist approach to reality, it is now fashionable to talk about how the poles of economic growth in European society are cities, urban agglomerations, and those subsidies are structured according to this point of view. You know that there is an integrated territorial investment instrument that concerns the few largest and potentially most economically viable agglomerations in our country. Then a number of smaller ones will work through IPR. There's a relatively large amount of money. The question of co-financing is absolutely essential. Personally, I think that in the next or the subsidy period that awaits us at the moment, the authorities of the municipalities and cities will hit their ceiling, and the problem of the ability to raise money for co-financing will grow to the fullest. That is why those of us who have some experience in implementing European subsidies in large cities want to see the impact this measure will have on the budget and how this will take place even in large agglomerations. That is why it is absolutely essential for us to be able to draw the money in the area of IT or IPR. It is not just a political game on our part, but it is very substantively conditional, and I consider it absolutely essential for the material in the absence of the impact analysis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u68	Thank you. Mr Plzák cancels his point of order. In that case, the next in line is Mr Štěpán Stupčuk with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, as a coalition Member, did not expect to speak to this material at all. But I am also a Prague MP at the same time. And here, from the mouth of President Stanjura, there was information that Prague would lose 690 miles in the Senate version. So, by your means, Mr President, I would like to ask the representative of the Senate to comment on this question of mine, what the impact of the budget, virtually. the income will constitute any approval of the Senate version. Alternatively, I would like to ask the Minister directly if he can confirm or disprove this information that has been said here. At the same time, I appeal from this place to all Prague Members to comment on this. Because I think that we are elected primarily here as individual electoral regions and that we should always know what we are voting for and why we are voting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who has been reported, is now making a factual point. Mr Stanjura will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u71	Okay, here we go. We've already got the first city to come, and we've heard - 690 million? That's what I asked the Minister to do. I wanted a report from the working group, we got a record. And I wanted another table that would say how much each community would lose, i.e. about a table that will say how many there are - 25 percent of the municipalities that lose their taxes, which they are, and how much. The analysis you presented here, so the analysis, yes, I got it, it was on ten lines, I read it here. There was stated - 77 percent of the municipalities, they will not mind, and 23 percent of the municipalities will mind. And that's your analysis! So if you've analyzed, don't tell me you don't have the results of tax collection in this area at the Treasury. And if I got the minutes within the hour, then we could get the analysis, the table, also within the hour, and if we don't get it, then I agree with Mrs Černochová, and I suggest we stop the negotiations, and we can discuss this on 22 December after an emergency meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u72	Shall I take that as a procedural proposal, then, Madame?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u73	I've stated that if we don't get the analysis, I'm proposing an interruption until December 22nd after an emergency meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u74	Okay. I have no choice but to ask the Vice Prime Minister if he is able to present this analysis, because if he is not, I will have to put the vote in a procedural manner. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, if you step out and respond to Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u75	Thank you for the floor. I think there's a difference between writing a rud meeting and analyzing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u76	Mr President, I need to explain so that I can put a procedural motion to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u77	Yeah, well, let me finish...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u78	So I just want to ask if you are able to deliver this analysis to the Member, as she asks. Yes or no, I'll vote later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u79	We have 6 252 municipalities, and it's negative for 4,800, so of course I'm not able to provide an analysis of thousands of municipalities -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u80	Okay. Since you are unable to submit an analysis, I will have to put to the vote on the procedural proposal, as proposed by the Member, i.e. The procedural proposal is that this item will be suspended by Friday of this week, with the request for an analysis to be provided to the municipalities concerned. 22nd. 12. Okay. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'll ring the bell. I see your application for check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. For the sake of order, I will repeat the procedural proposal that we should put to the vote, i.e. that Mrs Kovářová has a procedural proposal that she wishes to interrupt the debate on this point by 22. 12. In order to submit an analysis of the municipalities concerned by which tax revenue will be reduced and by how much. Okay, it's a procedural proposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposed procedural proposal. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 285, registered 154 Members and Members, for proposal 46, against 64. This procedural proposal has been rejected. In that case, we will continue the order of registered factual remarks. Mr Stanjura will appear first, Mrs Kovářová will sign up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u81	Mr Vice-President, I ask you not to improvise and call the ministers to explain something, and the Rules of Procedure apply. For Mr Stupčuk, perhaps also other Members from the region of Prague, the electoral region. I have here a presentation of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Finance, meeting of the working group on RUD, Prague, 23 November 2015. [[unintelligible]] On page 9 are the results of 2014. Logically, 2015 is not. Prague, and I apologize, I rounded it up, got 689 million 629,000 out of the proposed cancelled 30 percent share. I rounded it up to 690 million with permission. That's official Treasury material. I am surprised that they do not have coalition MPs, government MPs, when oppositions have this material at their disposal. So, page 9, presentation of the Ministry of Finance of November 23, 2015. And the number can only be questioned by the finance minister when he can say, "We've worked out the wrong material." Of course, that's true, but we're logically based on the Ministry of Finance's numbers, they have enough officials, they want to accept hundreds more, so I believe they've calculated the numbers well. The fact that the least possible majority of senators - because it went through one vote, the vote on the amendment, with which it returns by one vote, when I looked into the junk, is true, one vote. . Two votes, then. [[Objection from the diaper that it's two votes]] [[A reminder off the microphone.]] Come on, put the junk on the table, I got this piece of junk, don't yell at me, I didn't yell at you either, I patiently listened to your speech, which was completely different from that bill, Minister, so please don't jump in and talk to anyone else. It's not done. Maybe with you. Not with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u82	So, Mr President, just for the record, before I vote on anything, I must be clear about what is being voted on. For this reason, I have requested clarification that all Members know and fulfil the conditions of the Member. Another factual point is that of Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u83	Thank you for the floor. So at first we heard that we had an analysis, some, which led to an amendment in the wording in which it was tabled. And now the Minister has told us he doesn't have an analysis. We don't want analysis! We want the numbers that he has at his disposal, for example. Mr Stanjura. For example, how much income did individual municipalities have on this tax in 2014. That's all we want. We're asking you to have a table that you should have in the Ministry! And if your officers don't give it to you... So they won't give it to me, that's probably normal, but you don't have it at your disposal, so how do you want to understand the problem?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u84	Thank you. For the record, let me repeat how many factual points I see here. This means first Mr Kučera, Stupčuk, Stanjura, Bendl, then Mr Vice Prime Minister. I am also registering you, Mr Senator, but according to the Rules of Procedure, you must wait for your turn to come after the proper minutes of the debate. I will now ask for a factual remark from Mr Kučera, Mr Stupčuk will prepare himself with a factual comment. And I will ask you, colleagues, who have something important to deal with, to go to the lobby to understand what is being spoken here. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u85	Thank you for the floor. I would like to address the coalition MPs. Is there at least one of you who knows what we're going to vote on today? Who knows how much money will go to the village? How are the communities going to be? I don't think much. Not nemnoho. And I think it would be fair to actually interrupt this negotiation and request relevant evidence. For God's sake, hundreds of millions fly here, hundreds of millions fly there! Apparently, whoever doesn't know anything about this is Secretary of Finance Andrej Babiš. That doesn't surprise anyone anymore. Please, let us interrupt this hearing, ask for relevant evidence to see what will really cause this decision. Because here it can happen that from voting this law will come again less money for the municipalities, and no one can answer it qualifiedly here. Unfortunately, neither is the Finance Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u86	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Stupčuk, after which Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u87	Thank you, I'm very brief. Again, I would like to ask Minister Babiš whether he can confirm that the impact of about 690 million, whether it is true or not, or whether the finances can confirm or disprove it. This is really important to me as a Prague Member, and I would like you to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u88	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura. After him, Mr Bendl, after him, Minister Babiš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u89	I don't have any classified material, so I don't have it from the Ministry of Finance, so the Minister doesn't have to open an internal investigation into who handed the material over to the opposition MP. It is a material received by the Union of Towns and Municipalities. It's public material. But for the numbers debate... [[The MP's gone silent. There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] I mean, they're numbers from 2014. This year, the economy is growing at a rate of almost 5%. In January we will know how much it does for Prague in 2015. I'll allow myself to predict that it will be more than 690 miles. Crowns. The next year is forecasting further growth in the economy by about 2.5, maybe 2.8 percent, so I will allow myself to predict that in 2016 it will be more than 690 miles. And I'm not counting the hypothetical billions that the Minister of Finance wants out of the tradesmen, and of them 30 percent would remain in the municipalities again. I'm based on numbers that are the only ones in a closed year, and that's 2014. Analysis has three lines. This is not a specific impact table. And here, the simple rule of law doesn't change. Here, the system is changing without question, without discussion. I will then repeat and describe the process when we last significantly changed the system, how long we had been debating it, with whom all of it, how complexly we were looking for the consensus that we finally found, and we pushed through the new budgetary determination of taxes, and we helped municipalities in particular from two to fifteen thousand inhabitants. But we also canceled national grant titles. And we found money at the expense of the state, not at the expense of other communities. This is a substantial difference in this proposal. I myself wonder if the Minister of Finance will sign up for the presentation of the Ministry of Finance or not. We have no choice but to trust the numbers that leave the Treasury.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u90	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Bendl. Minister Babiš will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u91	Thank you for the floor. I confess that I was very surprised by the reaction of some of the Members' clubs represented in the House when asked by Mrs Kovářová to present us with a concrete impact on the budget of cities and municipalities resulting from the Senate bill. I was surprised by the position of the Communist Party Members that they did not want this material to be presented by Minister Babiš. I don't understand why you're defending him. So either you don't want to be here on the 22nd for the budgetary determination of taxes, I would understand that, even though I don't think that's the relevant reason, or you just want to support the government coalition and Minister Babiš. That's probably your decision. Nevertheless, I will speak in a proper debate with a proposal for a resolution accompanying this bill, so that the Minister of Finance immediately submits to Members of the Chamber of Deputies the implications of the Senate draft budgetary determination of taxes in the budget of cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Believe me, I see your application for an application for a debate with both factual remarks and due debate, but everyone in the order that he has applied, so I am asking you for some patience, even though the debate is hectic. Now, then, Minister Babiš will speak with a point of fact. After that, Mr Grospič, with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u93	Thank you for the floor. These shows are incredible demagogy. Really, what can I say? I'd say that again. As of 30. 11. we chose by 22 billion. more taxes. This results in shared taxes to municipalities and cities from VAT and corporate taxes. [[Voices from the right side of the hall.]] I know you don't care that it's just a theater.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u94	I apologise for speaking to you, but I ask you, Members, not to shout at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u95	You're fooling people here! Because the incentive element is negative for 4,800 municipalities. Negative! And I'll give you the analysis! But don't tell me I said I wouldn't deliver it. I said I wouldn't deliver it in an hour because we have 6,400 municipalities. And within an hour, I'm unable to deliver this analysis! And when it comes to Prague, if we cancel, Prague gets an extra 273 miles. koruna, so the opposite is true. We collect more, shared taxes more and the incentive element is negative for 4,800 municipalities. 77 percent of the municipalities are negatively affected by what we want to abolish. Stop lying already!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u96	Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Grospič. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It will probably no longer have any factual significance, my fellow Members, but I think that the real point of these two proposals, whether a Member or a version of the Senate, which is to help the municipalities more significantly, has a point that we should probably reduce our passions in this context, and therefore I think that it is not appropriate to interrupt this point, because it is the majority of municipalities and regions that are waiting very eagerly before the end of the year to discuss this bill. Then I think it should not be a problem for each of us to choose the option that suits him and therefore to proceed to the vote. I do not share in this context the words that my previous speaker has said here, through the President, Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mrs. Kovářová, I'll read the note. Today from 14:30 to 19:00, Mr David Kádner apologizes for family reasons. Now, therefore, with Mrs Kovářová's point of fact. Mr Kučera will be prepared, followed by Vice-President Gazdík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u99	Just so you know, I've looked into Director Matej's answer. The answer states, I repeat, that the Ministry of Finance uses the statistical method of mean value for analysis using historical data on the development of this tax. And they were converted further into tax predictions for 2017 and, based on this model, losses of over one million crowns were detected... and so on, and so on. So I think, Minister, that you might be able to give us the analysis, according to the answer, it's probably available. [[Chairman of the PSP Jan Hamáček is speaking with Minister Babiš.]] Excuse me, I'd just like the minister to listen to me. Thank you. That you could give us the analysis, because according to your director's reply, it's available at the Treasury Department, and you could deliver it to us immediately. Plus, who's lying? The political agony that you guys always lead and don't listen to. Not that you don't listen to us Members, but you don't listen to the Association of Local Authorities, the Union of Towns and Municipalities, in short and well you don't listen to their arguments and you're just yelling at us that we're lying! So comment on the budgetary determination of taxes! That's the theme, that's today's point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u100	Thank you, too. Now, with Mr Kučera's point of fact. After that, Vice-President Gazdík, Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u101	Thank you for the floor. In fact, unlike my colleague, Mrs Kovářová, I am beginning to think that there is no analysis, since, firstly, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš did not present it to us at the proper meeting of the House, and he does not even want to present it to us at some relatively normal time. That means, it's probably being worked up and created in a feverish way right now. I really do not see any other reason why this analysis should not be given to us. The fact that the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš does not understand the budgetary determination of taxes is perhaps most of us known, at least to those who understand municipal budgets. This, of course, was demonstrated at several discussions. It started when the mayors almost booed him at a meeting. [[12.00 hours]] I would be really interested in the answer to how the cities are going to be. Why are we approving a law that clearly does not answer the question of what impact this amendment of the law will have on urban budgets? You know, municipalities are in a situation where they have to prepare their budgets. The village, unlike you, Minister Babiš, is doing well. And they run really honestly. These budgets are trying to prepare so that they have a maximum view of what money will come, and on this basis they are planning their investments. And you, Minister Babiš, don't make it difficult for them. You don't even let them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I received a note from today's meeting, but unfortunately there is only a signature without saying who is sorry. [[Fun in the hall.]] So I'd ask you to specify who's sorry because I'm not able to read who it is, according to the signature. On the basis of the agreement of the club presidents, I would like to point out that I have several procedural factual remarks here, stating that, after Mr Bendl's speech, I will put forward a procedural motion to interrupt this point by 16 o'clock, so that we can also discuss the government's military proposals. So, in advance, I advise that, after Mr Bendl's speech, this procedural proposal will be heard. Now, therefore, with a factual remark, Vice-President Gazdík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u103	Once again, good day, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I may surprise you, but I commend the Minister. I think we're talking a little empty straw here, but what the Minister said was crucial here, and that is that the Minister is ready to discuss systemically and analytically the change in the budgetary determination of taxes as of 1 January 2017. Seventeen. Budgetary determination of taxes. This proposal should also apply from 1 January 2017. And if this Senate proposal goes through, I said here that now we're deciding whether to hang ourselves or shoot ourselves. If the Senate's motion passes, since it is only from 1 January 2017, and given that the Minister has given this promise, it will mean a slight asphyxiation with the fact that maybe during 2016 the Minister will not hang the cord and the municipalities will not hang it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u104	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark, Mr Vilímec. After that is Mr Stanjura and Mr Bendl. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u105	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I, with all due respect to the Minister, shall try to count. When the Minister said that if the Senate version was approved, it would be about CZK 250 million plus for Prague, let us try counting. According to indisputable data from the Ministry of Finance, Prague is losing almost 700 million to the motivational folder to round it up. Senator Martínek claims to be adding CZK 2 billion autonomously to VAT. So if it were to be true, Prague would have to collect almost one billion crowns on the VAT increase. And that's plain nonsense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u106	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark, President Stanjura. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u107	Math is relentless, and then it just doesn't work out. However, I want to reassure some Members who say that the municipalities are impatiently waiting. The municipalities have 12 and a half months. The effectiveness proposed by the Senate is from 1 January 2017. And it's really funny that the same people who fought against a similar amendment here a month ago, which, of course, increased at the expense of the state, not at the expense of other communities, now claim it, because they found it politically unsustainable, that it was politically unpopular, so they invented a trick: we're going to add, we're going to talk about it, but we're going to take something from the back, and the state budget is going to be the worst of it anyway, maybe better. I think it's better. If we put the numbers together - and I think there are so many people in the Treasury that they can write a list by 16 o'clock and give us how many municipalities, individual communities, not in the sum, collected on the motivational folder in 2014. [[with emphasis]] There's no question about that in four hours. And we can get to know that table. If anyone seriously wants to tell us that half of the shared VAT from all cities and municipalities is taken from Prague, I just don't believe it. Let him prove it to us. Because we increase Prague's share of VAT and everyone else by about half a percentage point. And now we hear that half a percentage point for Prague is actually a billion. But the percentage points are 21.4. This means that it fits, so Prague would actually only collect 40 billion a year from VAT. Well, let someone tell us, either the Minister or the Senator. The numbers just don't add up. And then if we don't have the numbers, then the Minister here can yell at us all he wants, he doesn't have the numbers, he doesn't know the numbers, and he just can't fix it by screaming.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u108	Thank you. Today, from 14.30 to the end of the day, Mrs Němcová apologises. I will now ask Mr Bendl to give his speech with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u109	Thank you. I wanted to respond to Mr Grospič's colleague, who said that the Communists did not support the motion for a resolution, which says that the Minister of Finance Babiš - or did not support it, was opposed to the Minister of Finance presenting an impact analysis, I will say, the Senate's recommendation under the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, with the argument that municipalities and cities are no longer impatiently waiting for what will happen with the RUD, so I would like to draw his attention again to the fact that the municipalities and cities will be involved in this on 1 January 2017. So three or four days delay really doesn't matter. I'm surprised you don't want the analysis. But maybe because you and Minister Babiš have other plans.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u110	Thank you. As I have previously announced, a procedural proposal will now be made to interrupt this point by 16.00. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering the check-out request. So I'm going to check you out, and I'm going to ask you to rejoin the system. The procedural proposal that we will be voting on is that we are interrupting this point by 4:00 today. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposed procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 286, with 151 Members registered, for proposal 121, against 2. I note that this procedural proposal has been adopted, and I am interrupting this point until today's 16.00 and passing on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u111	I'm registering an application with Mr Stanjura's priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u112	Thank you for the floor. Just a quick heads-up. What we have now adopted was proposed by us as constructive opposition 45 minutes ago. You've taken an unnecessary quarter of an hour from you for a defined time interval for third reading. So when you cry again that it doesn't go as fast as you wish, and as the opposition makes it hard for you, look in the mirror. You're stalling yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-001-214.u113	Thank you. We will now proceed according to the approved program. The point we should be dealing with right now is
