ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u1	38. Proposal of Members of Miroslav Kalousek, František Laudát and others for the issue of a law on the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic in the management of companies controlled by the state /house print 167/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as a House press 167/1. I ask now that the motion put forward by the representatives of the appellants, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe I'll introduce someone to a distrustful laugh when I say that this design is not motivated personally. But I will support this claim by referring to the updated ODS and TOP 09 programming statements and to the TOP 09 electoral programme, when you will find in both two materials a relatively detailed project by the Ministry of Economy. The government experience that we have made together, TOP 09 and ODS has led us to believe that a wide range of agendas of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Regional Development would lead to a significant efficiency of the state administration, which, in addition to administrative agendas, would also be the founder of stock companies with the ownership of the state and state enterprises. In the government there would be roughly two equally strong figures - one on the forehead would have written "balanced investigation and tax collection," that would be the Minister of Finance, the other would have written "economic growth" on the forehead, that would be the Minister of Economic Affairs. I am convinced that this vision, which we did not, please nicely, invent, just revived a vision from the 1990s, an idea that has been here for quite a long time, that this vision is a much more effective model of governance than that detailed ministry today with one huge strong and cross-cutting Ministry of Finance. Processing a proposal for the Ministry of Economic Affairs cannot be the task of the opposition. This is a far too detailed government project, and the only one who can present it is the government if it comes to that view. We didn't make it, even though we had it worked out, because, as you know, the government's work was prematurely terminated. However, the project would be here in legislative form under our government if the government's period lasted until 2010. However, what can be done about this, and I consider it effective and systemic, is to transfer the founding role of equity companies with the ownership of the state and state-owned enterprises to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Why? This results both from the history that these joint-stock companies have entered into the founding role of the Ministry of Finance and from the different priorities that are logically held by individual ministries. I mean, about history. In the time of the centrally planned economy and even in the early 1990's, these state companies were state-owned companies, under individual ministries, where they belonged - ČEZ, ČEPRO, MERO were under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and so on, I do not want to burden you with this list. For example, the airport and ČSA were under the Ministry of Transport. They were just the department's authority under the agenda where they belonged. Since they were all included in privatisation, their deetatisation took place in the first stage, their transformation into joint stock companies and their shareholder became the legal entity set up by lex specialis, it was called the National Property Fund. It was a legal person who was allowed to enter into business and became the owner of the shares of these companies. With the vision being such that its task will then be the sale of these shares and the subsequent privatisation, which, of course, took place in a number of cases. But in the meantime, political, public and social discussions have judged, in some cases, very rightly, elsewhere it is debatable that certain sectors are strategic and that the state must retain them to maintain its control, even sovereignty in the case of energy. I admit that I too had a rather considerable shift of opinion here, because I always thought - in the 1990s I thought that we should privatize CEZ's joint-stock company. Some of you may recall that Zemanův's government even approved the privatization project CEZ and was about to sell CEZ. Since there was no interesting offer, privatization was abandoned. And I think that no one today, not even the most convincing liberal, is considering, in the current situation on the energy market, that the state should get rid of its majority in this stock company. Then it is a question of who should really be responsible for the management of these strategic sectors, whether the Ministry, whose main priority is the balance sheet of public budgets, has a logical priority interest in extracting as much liabilities as possible from these companies as they have against their owners. This is a logical interest, I say from my own experience, it is the logical interest of every Ministry of Finance to maximize the revenues of the state budget. And if, under my own administration, under my sole signature, I have the opportunity to decide on the amount of the dividend, of course, I have a logical interest within the priorities of my department to maximize this and collect the liabilities in the state budget as much as possible. [[16.50 hours]] But I'm asking if it's the State's job to permanently own these companies to get as much money out of them as possible. That's just a byproduct. The main task of the state, if it wants to have those enterprises for strategic reasons, is to develop this sector and maintain its competitiveness. Because he wants those companies to be competitive, to be strong, because it's his strategic sector. And then logically, it's always a matter of considering how much money I'm gonna take to keep them competitive and strong. I think a very classic example can be said... Mr. Birk, don't yell or I won't vote for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u3	Ambassador, I'm sorry. I ask my colleagues for peace and you to continue when it is quiet in the Chamber. Everyone who's talking, please go to the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u4	The government, if I am well informed, recently adopted a strategic decision that the future continuation of the nuclear programme should mostly be financed by ČEZ, a joint-stock company. I don't give in to criticism, it's a typical strategic decision for the future at the moment when - I'm sorry, I'm not going to elaborate, I'm going to turn aside - it's just a typical strategic decision by the government for the future, and I'm not submitting it to any criticisms. However, (a) that this extremely demanding investment will be financed primarily by CEZ, to this point (a) logically it must also be mentioned (b). In such a case, the logical reasoning is to minimise the dividend, perhaps to stop it, so that the joint stock company can create reserves in order to increase its rating, to obtain the cheapest possible loan and to actually be able to finance such a 100-billion-dollar investment without weakening it and draining it in a fundamental way. Logical reasoning. This is a reflection that the Minister of Finance cannot have, because he wants as much dividends as possible in the revenue of the state budget, the bigger, the better. And we will find a number of such examples - for oil, for the product industry, for CEPRO, it will always be the strategic development of the industry that the state wants to keep, or the maximization of income that the state will take from those businesses. The two priorities are largely against each other. Which was why the transfer of the entire National Property Fund was already prepared during the previous government - it was prepared under the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Because it really worked systemically, as long as it belonged to the National Property Fund. The National Property Fund was a legal entity, no minister ruled it, the Minister of Finance was only the president of the Presidium, decided the presidium as a collective body, and either implemented the privatisation decision that the government handed over or took care of the proper management and competitiveness of the companies it owned. At the time the transformation period ended and the National Property Fund was abolished as a legal entity, all of its assets were taken over by the Ministry of Finance, and this, in principle, took place, I dare say, a non-systemic state. I realize a certain maximalism of the proposal that is put forward. I mean, the way to some more systemic adjustment than the current legal situation, there are two ways. A rather complicated amendment to the law of competence, which would be a very inconspicuous thicket, or an indirect amendment in the form of a very simple law, a law on the competence of the MIT, which is, in a way, an indirect amendment to the law of competence. This law can then be very simple and clear, because a number of implementation measures need not be defined by law and can be defined by the sub-legal norms of government, whether its regulation, resolution or decree. I realize this maximization by transferring everything under the proposal, if it were accepted as it is now submitted, and basically under the Ministry of Finance, sorry under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, including the Forests of the Czech Republic, including the water catchment area. And I understand here that there are a number of good arguments to consider the importance of these subjects on the landscape, on the environment, and to discuss whether they should not stay at the Ministry of Agriculture or go to the Ministry of the Environment, but that perhaps not the happiest thing that is mentioned in this proposal, i.e. the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It is simply a maximalist proposal where, at second reading, the petitioners assume a detailed system discussion that should go beyond what founder. But what we call strategic sectors should not be discussed. In addition, the current situation is also reinforced by the fact that there is a clear conflict of interests of the current founder. It's just a little icing on the cake, that's a fact, but that's not why we're translating it. We are presenting this to find a system arrangement, and I just refer to the fact that this project was already underway during the last parliamentary term. So I would like to be released for second reading and look forward to a passionate and systemic discussion when I say this briefly: what belongs to where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u5	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u6	Mr President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. It was said here that the law was very simple. I can confirm this claim because this law is contrary to the established elementary rules of law making, according to which it must not be an indirect amendment to other laws. However, the proposed proposal significantly affects a total of eight laws. I would further state - I will not quote them all here, they are in the Government's position - I would further state that this simple, very simple law does not make clear either from the explanatory report, the subject and objective of the coordination and methodological function that the Ministry of Industry and Trade should perform. I further note that the parliamentary bill also shows shortcomings of a legislative technical nature, which, in addition to the above-mentioned inadmissible indirect amendments to laws or misrepresentation of the names of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, does not correspond in Section 4 of the established legislative technical requirements to the titles of the sections and the wording of the provisions on the entry into force of the legislation. I would further state that the proposal contradicts the logic of the current administration of profitable entities from state participation entrusted to the Ministry of Finance as guardian of the state budget. The proposed change is based on an incorrect concept which contradicts the commitments taken over by the Czech Republic when joining the European Union. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is responsible for shaping the business environment in the Czech Republic. If, at the same time, it managed the entities that operate in this environment, not once as very expressive players, it would create an inevitable conflict of interest. The Ministry of Industry and Trade would not act as a private investor in the management of these entities, but would inevitably prefer the objectives of its economic policy. On the contrary, in an even worse option, economic policy would adapt to the needs of managed entities. Both variants, of course, need a market and create unequal competition between private and state-controlled entities. [[17,00 hours]] It cannot be pointed out enough that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union prohibits Member States from granting public aid, while an important part of this prohibition is precisely the obligation for them to treat state-controlled business entities as if they were treated by a private investor. For the reasons described, this command could not be fulfilled by the proposed arrangement. On the contrary, the resorting of business governance from determining economic policy in countries for good practice, which eliminates the risks described. So if there is to be a change, this should be the opposite change, i.e. further focusing on the management of remaining equity holdings at the Ministry of Finance. For this reason, I will propose that the bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Ivan Pilný. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Kalousek signed up with priority rights first. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, Mr Snopek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u8	I just have a very brief response to the rapporteur, with thanks, of course, for his involvement. Again, there are two ways. Either a complicated amendment to the law of competence, or this indirect amendment. As has also been said by the rapporteur, we have a number of legal memos that this is not an inadmissible path and that it is not contrary to the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. [[The speaker has a cell phone ringing in his pocket.]] I'm so sorry about my phone. This means, I am aware of this reservation, I repeat, we have a whole range of legal memos that this is not an inadmissible way, as has been said here, and that this is not contrary to the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. I also dare to dispute that the current state is the result of subsidiarityal logic. The current situation is an unwanted result of the transformation process, where, according to previous logic, enterprises belonged to individual founding ministries, thanks to the privatization and deetisation process they became the property of a legal person named the National Property Fund and after the abolition of the National Property Fund, when the assets transferred to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance became the founder of these strategic sectors not because this result was intended, but because in their case the privatisation and assets of the National Property Fund could not go beyond the Ministry of Finance. So much for a second remark. And the third point. The fact that, in the current state, the rapporteur is concerned about a conflict of interests in which these businesses would leave the Ministry of Finance really sounds like a laughing joke to me. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u9	I thank Mr Kalousek. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Snopek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very brief bill before us, which at first sight could look like a very simple standard. Unfortunately, with a deeper reflection, we will find that there may be a number of serious problems in this considerable simplification. First of all, we've heard the reason why the Ministry, why not the other one. On the basis of the assessment of the factors, I have come to the conclusion that it should be the Ministry of Finance, but in terms of the diversity of enterprises with state participation, there are a number of them, I cannot imagine that all companies, from the bank to the brewery, were actually managed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I think that the carrying idea of the four paragraphs of the bill presented is in order to actually find a fully addressed, responsible figure, i.e. the Ministry, which will be responsible for these enterprises with state participation. I think that's a merit thing. However, what will be the path of achievement, I am not deeply convinced of this at this point. I think that, in a normal legislative process, if we are giving a bill that should modify something, then it should also be that we will have to abolish a number of special laws so that we do not have a swayed legal order. And we will now adopt a new law, and we will have a number of laws from the past that actually govern the activities of these businesses. Therefore, I think that these laws should be abolished above all in this law, a deep analysis carried out, and in this way we could work towards some outcome. It was promised that this would be presented at second reading, but I think it is necessary for such analysis and decomposition to be presented already in the original report so that we can navigate. That is why I am putting the bill back to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u11	Thank you, Mr Snopek. Now the rapporteur, Mr Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u12	In my contribution, I did not say anywhere that the proposed simple law violates the constitutional law of the Czech Republic. I merely stated that it violates the fundamental principles of lawmaking and legal standards. I also didn't talk about conflict of interest in terms of personalization, I talked about it -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u13	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, you're not hearing very well, because the noise level is too high in this room, and I'm asking you to continue when the different crowds of those who will go into the lobby to deal with their affairs, and then please continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u14	So I said that conflicts of interest here were not personalized by me, they were conflicts of interest between private and state-controlled enterprises. There we are breaking the fundamental rules of the European Union, which we have made a commitment to. On the other hand, I am pleased that Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, has clarified the principle of why this law is being presented. It's an attack on the Minister of Finance again. But I don't think we should personalize the laws and create them in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u15	I thank Mr Pilný. Now, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u16	I do not want to make this a dialogue between the petitioner and the rapporteur, but I think I have explained quite very carefully both the motives of the submission and the moment of the vision, and this vision arose at a time when no one really had the slightest idea who would be the Minister of Finance. I was basically working against my ministry, but I thought it was right, I thought it was a systemic step because the National Property Fund became a department of the Ministry. The Department of Justice could have gone anywhere else. This National Property Fund, which is now a section of the Ministry, can be separated by a relatively simple and readable cut and transferred to the Ministry of Others. I think it's right, you don't, but there's no way it's a personal attack. I dare say to Mr Snopek that this really requires a number of sub-legal standards, but they may no longer be in the legal order. What you are asking is clearly stated in Section 3: Rights and obligations of central government bodies as founders of state-owned companies go to the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the date of application of this law. That means it's said there. Then, of course, this requires a rather demanding technical process, but it is dealt with by government resolutions and decrees of individual ministries. He doesn't have to be in the law. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u17	I thank Mr Kalousek. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Mr. Chairman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u18	Thank you for the floor. I will take the liberty of making a procedural motion to interrupt this item until the next meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u19	I'm sorry. I will have to vote on the procedural proposal without debate. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on Mr Sklenák's procedural proposal. Excuse me, there's a check-out request. I declare this vote confusing. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on Mr Sklenák's procedural proposal to interrupt the next meeting. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 138 voting. 161 Members and Members are enrolled, for 141, versus 5. The motion was accepted. The President Kalousek is now claiming priority rights. I am interrupting the discussion of this bill until the next meeting. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u20	Excuse me. I just wanted to respond to the procedural proposal. Since it is voted on without debate, I will use my right to explain why I was happy to support this proposal. The motion that we will return to at the next meeting is not motivated by our efforts to repel it. It is motivated by an effort to have a truly systemic debate on the most effective governance of companies with state ownership. If this month's delay will help us to have a discussion in our clubs and among each other, where we will clarify our comments to each other, I will only be happy and look forward to a system discussion at second reading. In the meantime, thank you for the interest you have given this draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-016-038.u21	I thank Mr Kalousek and the rapporteur, Mr Pilný. The next item is:
