ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u1	1. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the situation regarding the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice This item was dealt with on Tuesday, 10 February, when we interrupted the detailed debate, on 12 December the written material was distributed to this item, and I would remind you that the Chamber of Deputies agreed to the mayor's participation, which is not present today. We will therefore continue with the detailed debate in which Mr Hovorka, Seďa and Fiedler came forward. But with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the KSČM MP's club Pavel Kováčik is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u2	Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, thank you. Have a nice, good evening, everyone. I made a procedural motion to interrupt this point at the last adjourned meeting until the relevant expertise was delivered. However, given that there are still three entries in the detailed debate, which are very likely to record other motions for a resolution, so it would be illogical to interrupt the debate even before the proposals are presented, the ministers who have promised to deliver the experts would then be deprived of the possibility to respond, if necessary, to further proposals, let me modify my proposal that I propose that the interruption of this point after the three submissions have been submitted by colleagues, or before the close of the detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u3	I thank President Kováčik for his helpfulness. Furthermore, Mr Bronislav Schwarz has tabled a motion to read the resolution and to receive the proposals tabled in writing, to interrupt the meeting, then to vote on the resolutions tabled, see the tapestry. However, the Member is not present today. We will therefore continue the detailed debate, and I am asking my colleague, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who is next in the debate to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u4	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Ministers, fellow Members. I have informed you of the resolution I propose. I'll take the liberty of presenting it: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to: I. secured the removal of all hazardous materials - ammunition, ammonium chlorate and rocket fuel from the ammunition storage facility in Vrbětice; II. appoint a government agent to supervise the safe transport of all hazardous materials from the ammunition warehouse area in Vrbětice; III. ensure the examination of the specific liability of legal and natural persons for the errors that led to the explosions of stored ammunition and ensure the recovery of the costs of the intervention of security forces and the removal of dangerous material from responsible companies; IV. ensure a review of the faults of the military construction office when issuing a building permit for the test operation of the rocket fuel recycling plant in the area in the immediate vicinity of warehouses with a large amount of ammunition; V. put forward systemic corrective legislative measures to grant licences for the handling of military material and ammunition to ensure proper national supervision and effective control; VI. ensure a comprehensive inventory of one-off damage to property of natural and legal persons affected by the effects of the explosion of the ammunition warehouse and a proper record of all restrictions on economic activity in closed areas for the purpose of determining the amount of damage to the citizens of the affected municipalities; VII. ensure payment of one-off compensation for mental suffering and damage to property of natural persons affected by the direct consequences of the explosion of the ammunition warehouse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u5	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly applied for is Mr Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to read the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the situation regarding the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice. I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the situation regarding the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice. II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic thanks the components of the integrated rescue system and members of the Army of the Czech Republic for their intervention in this extraordinary event. III. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to continue to pay maximum attention to the security situation in order to ensure the security of citizens in the surrounding municipalities of the ammunition complex. IV. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the Government of the Czech Republic to carry out an inter-ministerial check on legislation for trade and handling of military materials and ammunition and asks the Government to submit a report to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic by 30 June 2015. V. Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to consult the surrounding municipalities and the Zlín Region for future use of the ammunition complex.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mr Seďa. So far, the last duly registered member is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u8	Good evening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I have included in my motion for individual items of the resolution the points of the petition committee, and since I was assigned to make a resolution from the petition committee, which we did not get to because of the interruption of the meeting, I will begin with this step. Resolution of the Petition Committee of the 12th meeting of the Petition Committee on 13 January 2015 for the public discussion of Petition for the removal of all ammunition and dangerous materials from the premises of former military warehouses in the Cadastral of the municipalities of Vlachovice and Vrbětice. Committee on Petitions I. Notes Petition for the removal of all ammunition and hazardous materials from the premises of former military warehouses in the Cadastral of the villages of Vlachovice and Vrbětice; II. has serious doubts as to compliance with laws and regulations in the management and operation of the Vrbětice ammunition warehouse, including authorisation procedures; III. asks the Ministry of Interior to close the investigation of the case by the Czech Police, for information on the facts found with the deadline of 12 months 2015; [[18.10 hours]] IV. Calls on the Government to ensure compensation for the damage to the citizens of the municipalities concerned and subsequently enforces those after the guilty - term: 3/2015; V. Asks the Government to prepare legislation to rule out the repetition of the Vrbětice case; VI. Asks the Government to provide answers to the questions raised by the members of the Board's summary report For the healthy Wallachia annexed to this resolution; VII. Instructs the rapporteur to Committee . Karel Fiedler to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Last item in the resolution of the Committee on Petitions. VIII. The Committee on Petitions interrupts the discussion of Citizens' Petitions for the removal of all ammunition and hazardous materials from the premises of former military warehouses in the Cadastral of the villages of Vlachovice and Vrbětice. I have completed my task and have introduced the Chamber of Deputies to the resolution adopted by the Committee on Petitions. I will now make my motion for a resolution for this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The points are nine, and this is also due to the fact that I have included points that are currently based on the resolution of the Committee on Petitions. Only at one point would I recommend to launch the third month 2015 which is probably too early to meet, and at the same time I launched the Ministry of Defence at one point because it has already sent the petents answers to their questions. My motion for a resolution: I. The Chamber of Deputies has serious doubts about compliance with laws and regulations in the administration and operation of the Vrbětice ammunition warehouse including authorisation procedures; II. Asks the Government whether it already has a report on why this event occurred and whether legislative action has been taken to prevent such an event from happening in the future; II. Asks the Government to indicate whether a check has been carried out in the past on the compliance of stored ammunition with the statements on the type and quantity of stored ammunition; IV. asks the Government to communicate whether, when issuing a decision to authorise Bochemie's activities, it has been taken into account that ammunition is or will be stored at the same time; . Asks the Ministry of the Interior after the investigation of the case by the Police of the Czech Republic for information on the facts found - term 12 months 2015; VI. Asks the Government to prepare amendments to legislation that exclude the repetition of the Vrbětice case; VII. Asks the Ministry of the Interior to provide answers to the questions of petents arising from the summary report of the Association for Healthy Wallachia delivered to the Ministry through the petition committee; VIII. Calls on the Government to ensure compensation for the damage to the citizens of the municipalities concerned and subsequently to recover those from the guilty. Last, ninth point: asks the Government to quantify the damage suffered and to recover it for the guilty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u9	I thank Mr Fiedler. This is the last one entered into a detailed debate. I'm asking if anyone else is checking in. It's not like that. I'm ending the debate in detail. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] Mr. Mr. Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u10	I'm sorry I'm stalling. But, Mr President, my proposal was to vote on the interruption before the end of the detailed debate. [[President: Yes, I'm sorry.]] After submitting all the contributions before the end of the detailed debate. [[emphatically]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u11	Minister, please come and say hello. Be that love. Thank you. This is the Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u12	Nice evening greetings to all. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-024-04-001-001.u13	It's absolutely perfect. Thank you, Minister. I will vote on the procedural proposal made by Mr Kováčik, and that is that we interrupt this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until the relevant experts are available. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a seven-order vote. There are 88 Members registered, for 85, against none. The motion was accepted. I interrupt this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies according to this procedural proposal and wish you a good evening.
