ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u1	31. Government bill on registration of sales / House printing 513/ - first reading 32. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Sales Recording Act (the House Press) 514/ - first reading of the United General Discussion We dealt with these Houses of Presses 513 and 514 on Friday, 19 June, when we interrupted the merged general debate. Before we proceed to discuss these proposals, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Organising Committee number 184 of 8 July this year, in which the Organising Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies the amendment of the rapporteur in the Chambers of Presses 513 and 514. The resolution of the Organising Committee reads: The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Chambers of Deputies the amendment of the rapporteur to the Chambers of Press 513 and 514 from Mr Václav Votava to Members of Jaroslav Klaška. I ask if anyone wants to speak on this motion for a resolution It's not like that. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Those in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 284, to which 129 are registered, for 122, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. Now, please... [[Mr Votava is applying for the floor, and Mr Votava approaches the microphone.]] You don't have priority rights, so I can't let you go. Then in the debate. I now ask that the Vice-President and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and the rapporteur take the position at the rapporteur's table to read these points first, Mr Jaroslav Klaška. We will now continue with the general debate in which I have registered Mr Votava's application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, just to clarify, I was only a substitute rapporteur when we first started reading. For the record, I was not the rapporteur who was approved by the Organising Committee. This has always been Mr. Klaška's colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u3	I thank you and at the same time apologize to President Kalousek because he was interrupted in his speech, so he should have started the debate. [[Friday, 19. 6. 2005 prior to the suspension of the merged debate]] I'm sorry. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. That's okay, I think it is appropriate that the President of the Committee on Budgets made that remark. I just wanted to remind you that I was interrupted by the end of the meeting 14 days ago, which means I've already had about 25 minutes of performance on this point. Before I finish my speech, I would like to remind you very briefly - indeed, don't worry - of what I touched here 14 days ago. I have spoken - I refer to the screen recording of my speech - about the technical problems that arise, given that not only...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u5	I will ask my fellow Members in the House to keep their voice down so that Mr Kalousek can speak in peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u6	Thank you. That not all places in the Czech Republic are covered by high-speed internet... The noise in the hall does not stop, the speaker has quieted again.) Thank you. That in many places this high-speed internet is falling out and what it will cause for the huge administrative problems of retailers and businessmen. I was talking about the extraordinary and very problematic social benefits that the new culture of reporting will bring thanks to this system, which the study calls a digital form of reporting. Last but not least, I was talking about the extraordinary costs that this system of government, public budgets and taxpayers will entail. The costs presented by the Minister of Finance's explanatory report, as a matter of fact, are significantly lower than the estimated costs of the BDO's internal study, which the Ministry of Finance had to process...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u7	I'm really gonna ask you to lower the noise level. We're not going to continue until it's quiet... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u8	You may recall that I asked the Minister of Finance to consider considering this study on 184 pages of BDO, which the Ministry of Finance was based on in the processing of its materials, whether he would not release this study for the Chamber of Deputies, because, especially on issues of cost and technical problems, this would be a very interesting reading for all of us. During those 14 days, the Minister of Finance has not yet done so. After all, it doesn't matter. [[Prime Minister Babiš approaches the rhetorical site and gives the speaker the required study.]] Is that her? Thank you. I thought everyone would get it electronically, I already have one. But okay, I'll scan it and give it to everyone. After all, we can read in the coming months and years when discussing this material and explain each page... I'll wait... [[Deputy Prime Minister Babiš moves from one side of the hall to the other and shows the two large plates present - receipts, Members laughing and applauding. I ask the House for peace!]] Thank you for the nonverbal presentation, which certainly supports my performance... I'll wait for the minister to present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u9	I'll ask for peace in the House... [[Minister Babiš brought copies of the receipts to the speaker's desk. The gayness in the hall continues.]] I will ask the Minister to take his seat, if necessary, so that my colleague Kalousek can continue. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u10	For those who sit directly against me, I only dare to inform myself from the top that Klaška and Babiš are sitting behind those signs. [[at the rapporteur's table]] [[Glee in the hall.]] So we talked about the costs of the BDO study, which is in direct conflict with the costs of the Ministry of Finance's material... [[There's restlessness and noise in the room.]] On behalf of Club TOP 09, please take a ten-minute break, which we may use to listen to each other in this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u11	I'm declaring a ten-minute recess. We'll continue at 9.20 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 9.20. Ten minutes have passed for the TOP 09 break. Please take your seats, lower the level of noise in the room, so that we can continue the negotiations... [[Restlessness and noise in the hall.]] I will ask Mr Kalousek to continue his speech on the microphone. Before he starts, I will ask, unfortunately, I must appoint a colleague of the Volný to sit in his seat, or if he has something to deal with, to do so in the foyer. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u13	Well, thank you for your understanding and your attention, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since there was a really special noise, there were some protesters running around with signs, I'd rather take it from the start. After all, I still have eleven attempts for this case, and I firmly hope that I will not have to use any more. So I would like to remind you that I have drawn attention here in my last speech to the extraordinary technical problems that this can bring, given that high-speed internet is not available throughout the Czech Republic, high-speed internet is falling out on a wide range of territories, as we all know from our own experience, and what huge administrative and technical problems and more work it will bring to Czech entrepreneurs. I also took the liberty of pointing out the very problem of digital reporting 14 days ago. I do not think it will benefit the social atmosphere in the Czech Republic, and I think it should be very much considered that one should report to another and encourage the state to do so on a special website and call it a digital form of reporting. I don't think this company deserves that. Thirdly, I took the liberty of drawing attention to the extraordinary difference between the costs mentioned in the BDO internal study, which the Minister - and I thank him - has released today, so we will all be able to confront it, the extraordinary difference between the costs reported in the Ministry of Finance study and the costs presented to us in the explanatory memorandum. If, in fact, all 600,000 entrepreneurs in cash-based industries were to be connected, the state would be involved, including the induced investment of a new centre, which is also not included here, by around 10 billion of the cost of implementing the entire system, which is the amount of 20 medium-sized schools, 70 kindergartens, 5 district hospitals or anything else you will remember for the public benefit instead of 10 billion, which will be spent not for the public benefit, but for some part of the private person at the expense of other private individuals who will incur costs, problems, or even liquidation. We have been discussing in public space for months whether the system that really only works in Bulgaria and Croatia - and we will certainly get to the point why only in these countries and why Western European democracies reject it - we are discussing whether or not it led to the loss of tradesmen and the increase in unemployment in Croatia. We have two options. Either we trust the propaganda of the Croatian and Czech Ministry of Finance, or we trust the only independent authority for the whole European Union, and that is Eurostat. I recommend the other one. And allow me to quote several verified and open Eurostat data which Eurostat has certified for the whole European Union. Thus: In 2013, when they joined, they started joining in Croatia to online cash registers, 15,000 trades went down and last year in 2014, when the cash registers became mandatory for all, 22,000 more trades went down. The Minister of Finance argues against this that these tradesmen were founding legal entities, eseróčka. This is true to some extent, but only 12,000 of these companies have increased. This means that there were 12,000 eserócs for 37,000 lost trades, which is still tens of thousands of lost trades and an increase in unemployment. Although the economy was growing, unemployment increased by one and a half points in Croatia during the introduction of electronic cash registers. Quote data from Eurostat. It is also problematic to claim that this led to higher VAT collection. If we look at VAT collection, and I refer again to Eurostat data, there has been a blackout of approximately CZK 2 billion over the two years. The argument of the propaganda of the finance ministries of the Czech Republic and Croatia is that VAT has been reduced to 10 percent for hotels and restaurants. This is true, but at the same time, and this is no longer stated by the ministries, in Croatia, with the reduction of this reduced rate for hotels and restaurants, the basic rate has increased from 23 to 25 percent for other goods and services. This means that there was a fiscally neutral movement of rates, when the reduced rate decreased, but increased, the overall impact was to be neutral, more money was to be collected thanks to the electronic record of sales, but it was chosen less. Just someone here isn't telling the truth, either Croatian, or the Czech Ministry of Finance, because they're taking over his data and his propaganda - I totally understand the Croatian government, which, when it's introduced, can't now say that it didn't work - or that Eurostat isn't telling the truth. I recommend trusting Eurostat. And from Eurostat data, we will find that there has been a proven loss of 10,000 traders and that there has been no better VAT collection due to online cash registers. But even if I did, as if I didn't, but even if it did, even if it would lead to some increase in VAT for businessmen, then allow me to say that we are going with cannon on sparrows, that even those studies that talk about VAT evasion due to the reduction of retail sales, even these studies recognise that the total volume of tax evasion is a reduction of sales at retail level of 5%. That is, from the overall problem of combating tax evasion, retail sales are a 5% problem. And we're going to this 5% problem with a billion-dollar project, with billion-dollar costs and huge technical and administrative problems for entrepreneurs and businessmen. [[9.30 hours]] Where's the 95 percent? They are, and the Minister is right, a large part of them actually takes place in those chain carousel shops, but the second big part takes place in more or less - thanks to the army of skilled lawyers and skilled tax advisors - in so-called. tax optimization for large groups, which have dozens of own or friendly companies and are often transnational, that is to say, they operate in several countries where tax optimization is taking place, some even say tax scams, where the total levy of these taxes is much smaller than one could expect from the profits of these companies. We'll find out again by reading open sources, annual reports. I really recommend reading the annual reports of major corporations sometimes, it's a very interesting and adventurous reading. Perhaps we can get to a lot of other companies in the next readings, I have prepared only one example for this day and for this case, so as not to delay. It is Synthesia Pardubice, a well-known chemist owned by Agrofert. So if we read the annual report, and now I quote from the open sources of the annual report by Synthesia Pardubice, this company paid its owner, Agrofert, 1.5 billion between 2010 and 2013. a reduction in the capital. Over the three years, it generated a pre-tax profit of a total accumulated amount of 1 billion. 872 mil. CZK and on dividends from this profit paid Agroferta 1 billion. 310 miles. Crowns. The state paid zero for corporate taxes - zero is nothing, not a crown - but requires 3.2 billion for the state. to eliminate environmental damage. So once again: By coincidence, the owner sitting here from a thriving firm in three years pulled 2.8 billion for himself, did not pay the state on corporate tax or crown, and asks the sitting finance minister for 3.2 billion. subsidies from public budgets. With this kind of payment tax morale, through Madam President, with this kind of payment tax morale, Mr Businessman and Finance Minister in one person, go to Karusel. [[Fun in the right side of the hall.]] You're not gonna get this money out of those businessmen, just Synthesie, what you pay less, and you want the state to pay, you don't get out of all the businessmen, even if you hang an electronic checkout for every beer and every sausage. [[unintelligible]] I'm not saying it's not legal. Yes, it really is because of tens and hundreds of other friendly companies, an army of skilled lawyers, an army of skilled tax advisors, it's legal, and it's probably all great oligarchs. That's why the huge delta taxes. But those little businessmen don't have that. They only have their two hands and their daily hard work, which you want to complicate just to prove to the nation who the impostor is and who is responsible for the fact that the finance minister can't collect taxes. It's the businessman! It's the cheater! Not the oligarch who can optimize billions. Please check with open sources as it really is. It is not without interest that even the expensive project, the cannon on the sparrow - which we want to tell everyone: the crooks are the tradesmen, not that we oligarchs are not paying, but the crooks are the tradesmen - that we do the cannon on the sparrow without a tender. Something's not right here. The Minister of Finance has advocated the government that, given that these are extremely sensitive data, the company that will do this must be tested for secrecy and, for security reasons, it will be entered without a selection procedure. Well, either the Treasury Secretary is deceiving that there won't be any sensitive data, because otherwise why it should be classified, or there will be really sensitive data... Sorry, either the Treasury Secretary is deceiving that there are no sensitive data, then it has to be classified, I guess, or there's no sensitive data, then why would it be classified? All I'm saying here is that all the tax and customs systems have always been purchased in a selection procedure, and there has never been a free-hand exemption because it has to be kept secret, even if it contains a whole range of sensitive information. Isn't there a reason somewhere else? Isn't there a reason a friendly company has to do this, working with an oligarch on his marketing and processing the information directly to his advantage? Here is the argument, whether it will lead to or lead to a levelling of the business environment and vice versa to its further distortion. The Minister of Finance - and I thank him for this - provided us with a seminar with the Croatian Finance Minister about a month ago, which did not conceal himself by saying it publicly that the project was not primarily intended to cause a higher VAT collection, but that the Ministry of Finance would have a perfect overview of entrepreneurs, their financial condition, their transfer - I will wait until Vítězslav Jandák speaks, thank you - for their transfer and the possibility of perfect online control. My precious colleague Zbyněk Stanjura calls this system register cashiers. Well, I wish he was right. While registering cash registers are expensive and expensive nonsense, they do not contain the risk of on-line information transfer and online misuse of information. They have a black box and, with some subsequent back-checking, the financial office will get into it, because, after all, even today, the Ministry of Finance has in the monthly VAT report from tax returns a whole range of extremely sensitive information, which, of course, can be used in some way or even used in commercial relations. But there aren't any online. They're only online in Croatia, where Mr. Todorič liked it insanely. Mr. Todorič, this is such a Croatian Mr. Babiš, who showed Mr. Babiš in Croatia. And he immediately fell in love with it, because of course he wants the same thing as Mr. Todorič. He wants the information online. And is it a nice coincidence that the way we're going to introduce it, we're going to introduce it in retail and restaurant business first? From all the analyses that I have ever had access to in terms of reducing sales in retail or reducing sales at all, it follows that the largest share of the grey economy, the reduction in sales, is in construction and transport. Only then are restaurants and retail. I don't want to judge, I don't want this system anywhere, because after all, we're no worse off than Germany, while even after the introduction of electronic records, Croatia is twice as bad off as we are. But why does the instigator believe that the biggest cheaters are innkeepers and retailers? Why aren't they somewhere else we haven't started yet? Well, because that's where he trades commodities that he's extremely interested in. That's where the biggest producer is, that's where the groceries are. [[9.40 hours]] Construction workers, locksmiths, roofers, car carriers, and we have no reason to believe that there would be more or less honest businessmen than in other fields, so they will not be exposed to this instrument, and those who trade in the art that interests the Minister of Finance as a food producer will be subjected to it. And we call it the settlement of the business environment. The settlement of the business environment is a level playing field for everyone, not for someone, and not for someone, with the fact that in that one single segment where it is to be introduced immediately, the information is available and it is exploitable. And it is not true that there are few and that they are insensitive, because if there were few and they were insensitive, there is no need to hide them, and there is no need to do a free-handed contest for a friend, sorry, to a predetermined candidate, because we do not have to hide insensitive data, so we can do a competition for them. The result won't be the settlement of the business environment that we're talking about here all the time. The result will be discrimination and a much greater distortion of the business environment, because it will apply to someone, it will not be to anyone, even the government wants to rule it out itself by decree or regulation, which, I believe, are the judgments of the Constitutional Court, that it cannot be done, that obligations cannot be imposed by law but only by law. But it doesn't matter, it can never get to the Constitutional Court, because we will never allow it to be approved. I'm just saying, I'm just contradicting the argument that there's going to be a settlement of the business environment. On the contrary, to a far greater distortion when it is applied to someone, not to someone, and also to the source of information is a friendly company, chosen without a tender by the largest food producer, to have unbeatable information in the segment, and thus become an absolutely invincible market master. Like Mr. Todorič in Croatia, who succeeded, so did Mr. Babiš in the Czech Republic. I understand that he wants something like that, that's understandable to me. It's hard for me to understand why his coalition partners are up to something like this. You really don't want to understand what you're putting in his hand and what you're allowing him to do? Or does he already have a file on almost every single one of you? Those are unbelievable stories. Before the government discusses it, the ministers will speak for KDU-ČSL and say: We will never get through this, we have a whole series of unanswered questions. In three hours, they vote for it and say, "It's delicious, the minister explained it all to us." I'd like a front-row ticket to explain. There's nothing left to do here except take his explanation talent away from the minister, because for one misunderstood Šincl, thirteen sympathetic and sympathetic folks, that's a fantastic score. koneckonců all, the way in which the leadership of social democracy stood up or did not stand up for Mr Šincl is also evidence of a great deal. But that's their internal problem, I'm just commenting on that. But the explaining skills are really extraordinary. I can't understand why. At the expense of public funds and why. At the expense of the tradesmen, you commit such a fundamental distortion and distortion of the business environment, and you have the courage to call it even. If it really was for everyone, I would, of course, be against it, but I would still be able to understand the argument that perhaps, that someone could believe it. But you're only introducing it for someone and only where Babiš cares about it, and in all the other sectors where cash payments are going to be made, it's just going to run the way it's going up to now - which I don't think is going tragically. That thing isn't so tragic. The level of the grey economy is around 15 percent in our country, which is, of course, not some number that we should cheer on, but is roughly the same as in Germany, one of the lowest in the European Union. Once again, in Croatia, where they introduced it, after they introduced it, the grey economy levels are twice as high as 28 percent. But just so that someone does this for themselves, just to distract the attention, where there really are tax evasions, that someone takes 2.5 billion, doesn't pay the koruna for tax and still wants 3 billion of the state, so they can't say that's the money I haven't paid, and I'm milking the public budgets. I have to say, that's the money the crooks didn't take away the tradesmen. And we're gonna play this game with him? Like in Croatia with Todoric? The German Financial Service, of course, has dealt with this, as has many other financial services from European civilised states, and the huge risk of misuse of the information and the huge technical risks, and for great cost everyone has rejected it. Why in God's name do you think we and Croatia will be at the forefront of the fight against tax evasion? No. Todorič with Babiš. That's all this is about. Again, when he shows you that he won't take any sensitive data, ask him why he has to be kept secret and why he has to enter it without a tender if there are no sensitive data. That's two arguments against each other. Either he's not telling the truth in one, or he's not telling the truth in both. I'm afraid he's not telling the truth either way. That's got to do with the costs that are now being paid for the project. The Ministry of Finance is already spending out of law, because I can only pay something for which the law entitles me if I am a public institution. Since this law is not and the Ministry spends these resources, it spends it unjustly, because it does not have the relevant law for it. I'm not saying that's not what happened in the past, for example. in the case of data boxes or at the Treasury when there was a hurry. However, each minister, each ministry, of course, carried the appropriate level of risk, because if the law could not be passed, it was an unjustified spending of funds, and the minister would then have to twist a lot until he explained that he had a legitimate expectation that the law would be passed, and he had not been approved. So far, he's always been approved, so the legitimate expectation has come true. However, it seems fair to me, given that we are still here in an unfair environment when spending the funds, including the campaign for the 80 million crowns, to tell the Ministry of Finance that it has every reason for legitimate expectations that this law will not be passed, that I say it completely authoritarianly on behalf of the TOP 09 membership club, and I am convinced that I will not be the only President of the MP's club, that if the law is not passed, and yet budgetary means will be spent against the law, that the Minister of Finance and his subordinates will simply bear the risk themselves. And for those institutions that will deal with this, let the record of the Chamber of Deputies say that we have a legitimate expectation that this law will not be passed, and that therefore no one is entitled to spend budget resources on something that is not based on the law. That seems fair to me to say. [[9.50 hours]] To sum up, this law tries to impose on us a system that is expensive, which is inefficient, which is discriminatory, which will bring nothing to the public interest, on the contrary, will bring about many private interests and will completely destroy other private interests. That is why every sane House, I believe, must reject this law, and I therefore submit, on behalf of the TOP 09, a motion for rejection. It is possible, it is even likely that this proposal will not be approved and that you will push it into second reading. It is possible, it is even likely that we will not convince you at second reading and that you will push it through to the third reading. But we're never gonna let you pass that law and put it into reality because it's as dangerous for free breathing in this country, it's as dangerous as its promoter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u14	Thank you. I now have two factual points - Mr Šarapatka, who I do not see here, so his application is forfeit, and another is Mr Zlatuška. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u15	Madam Vice-President, just two brief points. The first thing. I understand that this place can take any nonsense, but at the moment there was something about how high-speed Internet is not available to pass on this small volume of data, it is complete nonsense. Any small speed is enough for this. And absolutely any argument about high-speed internet is completely off limits. And second point. During the first Republic, the treasury had one tape on which the accounts were printed for customers and for the relevant trade, and the second was sealed, copies were made on it and checked by the IRS. This worked quite commonly and there was much more specific information than just numbers. From these numbers, when you add them up, you only get data in the VAT income statement. [[points to Babiš's signs]] Nothing else. There's nothing confidential about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u16	Thank you. I would now like to address Mr Lank's microphone with his point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u17	Good morning, colleagues. I don't want to delay. I cheered for a while when I saw the signs that the Minister had opened up a small buffet for us in anticipation of a long meeting. Then I understood what it was. I just have a kind request to place the signs. I can't see through them the way Minister Babiš looks at Mr Kalousek's speech, and it makes me feel poor. Well, if there's any way we can fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u18	I now request a microphone with Mr Kalousek's de facto Member. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u19	As far as data transfer is concerned, I don't want to argue with a cybernetics professor. I'm based on an expert's statement. I'm based on the statement of an expert who worked for the Ministry of Finance, which he says right here, puts in the study that will be available. Either Professor Zlatuška speaks out of the way, or an expert in the Ministry of Finance. I'm not in a position to judge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u20	Thank you. Now two more factual points. With the first to the microphone of Mr Novotný, then Mr Zlatuška will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u21	Good morning. Perhaps a little disadvantage for those of us who spend most of our working time in suits and big metropolises is that we really do not have practical experience with how the data networks work. I experienced such a practical experience recently on the weekend when I went to a tent for my children after many years under a tent in a quite busy location in South Moravia in one of the most important recreational places there, and I assure you that even that text with only a few kilobits of data I was there for many and many places in that exposed South Moravian location was not able to send, let alone anything with a larger volume of data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u22	Thank you. Before I invite Mr. Zlatuška to the microphone, please allow me to welcome to the gallery guests a foreign delegation of the People's Assembly of the Syrian Arab Republic, led by Vice-President Dr. Fahmí Hasan. [[Everyone here gets up and claps.]] I am now asking Mr. Zlatuška's microphone and his two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u23	Madam President, I do not want to brag, but I am, after all, a university professor in computer science, not cybernetics, as Kalousek said. At my time, I was the author of the first expert report on the Czech Republic's progress towards the information society and so on. I'm going to be dean of the Faculty of Informatics right now. In any case, what you hear here from a colleague of Kalousek is not true. I express myself completely authoritarianly in this. And you don't need this. And I would very much like to hear the name of the expert in quotation marks Mr Kalousek referred to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u24	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone with Mr Fiedler's de facto. Mr Kučera will be prepared, then Mr Laudát and then Mr Korte will be prepared. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u25	Hello, thank you for the floor, Madam President. Two minutes of a factual note will do me good. We've been dealing with electronic sales records for a long time. I have expressed myself several times, including our parliamentary club, in the sense that we understand the idea of the petitioner and that we have no problem with the idea that taxes should be collected and tax evasion should not be. However, we have reservations about what we should focus on first. I would like to quote a few short numbers from the press release of the Supreme Audit Office 14/17 of April 27, 2015. Share of individual factors involved in tax evasion in VAT collection. 40 per cent of the VAT gap is made up of deliberately distorting figures - large and medium-sized enterprises. 28 per cent VAT consists of other tax evasion or tax return errors. 25 per cent of the VAT gap represents an increase in outstanding amounts. And the last interesting figure: 7 percent of the illegal and shadow economy, that is, small entrepreneurs, businessmen and construction. So in other words, we're gonna be chasing fleas in a bear's fur, we're gonna be losing a lot of time with electronic sales records, but the big tax evasions, we're gonna let them still exist, billions bigger than what this state - I don't agree with it - is gonna take those little businessmen away, so we're gonna deal with it in a complicated way. I don't think those selection assumptions are entirely real. The effects will be immeasurable. Unemployment. Social expenses. But the biggest tax evasions, we're gonna turn our backs on them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u26	Thank you for keeping the time limit and I will ask for Mr Kučera's microphone and his two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u27	Hello. Thanks for the word. I would only react briefly to Mr. Zlatuška's speech. I hope he'll pay attention. I hope that the doctors present will also be alerted. I remember here, and I don't understand health, but I do remember the debate about introducing electronic recipes. I remember the arguments that were made here, why electronic recipes can't be introduced. The first reason was: Not all surgeries are connected to the internet. The second reason was: the old technical equipment of the operations regarding computers. And the third reason, as far as I can remember, could have been the age of practical doctors who wouldn't all be able to do the electronic recipes and learn to work with the Internet. I do not want to reduce the debate in any way, but this was, if I remember correctly, one of the main reasons why there was quite a lot of resistance from members of the health sector, why not introduce electronic recipes. I think that the tradesmen who are in those municipalities that are in those border parts of our republic, who are often older, who do not have the technical equipment that is not connected to the Internet, are on the same level as the doctors in the same areas. I think many have to give me credit for the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u28	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Korte's microphone. Mr Laudát will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u29	Thank you for the floor. To Professor Zlatušek through you. Professor, there's a Bohemian village on which I have a cottage. There's a hotel, there's no TV signal, there's no cell phone signal. The Internet runs through the wire. It's at the very end of the lead. So not only does it fall 15 times a day, but maybe all day long it doesn't go at all to the dislike of the guests. There are certainly more such places in the Czech Republic. Does this mean that the finance minister will have the hotel operator arrested as a fraud?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u30	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Laudát in fact, and Mr Zlatuška will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u31	Thank you for the floor. As Mr. Zlatuška said here, even the terrible plagiarism that was handed out to you here, lying, on the table, apparently from the Treasury Department, begins with the fact that they're already registering, or that it won't be a threat to the data. But the difference is whether you're centrally downloading data, or whether there's ad hoc checks, where it's clear who's checking, when they're checking. That means the central repository of data is about something completely different. So stop lying about not making a big brother. It's such a scam and a lie incredible! I regret that the Social Democrats are involved in this. I have said here several times in the past period that they are declaring rules and directing the economy to be anti-social democrats. And by supporting this and attacking the tiniest businessmen, they just confirm that I was right back then. And they haven't mastered that yet, please. Plus, add Brabec over there with his environmental tax on cars over ten years of age and other scoundrels attacking the poorest, and then give yourselves a round of applause. The Greek oligarchic or the Russian system, that's what you want here. And we will do everything we can to stop you from doing that. If you find a trick and I'm still in politics -- I don't know what you're grinning about -- if you find a trick and somehow push through this outrage and I'm still in politics, I'm gonna insist we cancel this scoundrel. [[The laughter of several Members]] Quick as you can. If the voters give us support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u32	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Zlatuška's microphone, Mr Janulík will prepare all the factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, for the last time, I will not perform again, even if I am called upon by name again. What sounds like objections from an expert point of view from the opposition is absolute nonsense. If I hear that from a student in a routine rehearsal, I'll fire him. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] And it only confirms my belief that one should focus not only on politics, but also on the students here and there, that perhaps future generations will be better than what we see here from some colleagues who also have a university and sometimes have worked in something. What about it? But last one, I won't be coming here anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u34	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Janulík's microphone. Mr Volný Member will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u35	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm at the margo of one of the previous speakers who called for electronic recipes and doctors here. Mr President, you are not crying on someone else's grave, you haven't even hit the cemetery. [[The applause and laughter of a part of the Members.]] Basically, those electronic records were introduced to us doctors, and no one asked us, many years ago. We all had to get computers and learn how to do it. And no one really took into account if we have Internet, we don't. It was just ordered, and suddenly it was necessary to get it. And as far as electronic recipes are concerned, the main problem there was in the data transfers, but it wasn't a question of the Internet, it was a question of data storage and stuff like that. So you don't mix pears with apples, that's pork and apples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u36	Thank you. Mr Fiedler will be ready for the microphone, please. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, it's a good thing that colleague Fiedler will talk after me, because I'm here to underline him again. Absolutely, he didn't disappoint me because he's back with his populism, and he's saying that we're dealing with seven percent of small businessmen. I point out that the EET was divided according to sections, which means it starts with hospitality and business and it's also for the big networks, it's also for the big companies. It means, it's not built against tradesmen, it's just one major, the other major. It means it's not against businessmen, it's just ready for the whole field. The big ones will be there, Mr. Fiedler, I assure you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u38	Thank you. I will ask Mr Fiedler for a microphone, Mr Novotný will be prepared, then Mr Laudát and then Mr Kučera. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u39	Thank you for the response of Mr. Volný. I'll basically follow up on him mentally. 'Cause what bothers me is how it's prepared, ready. When we asked for a consultation and presentation of this amendment of the law with Deputy Minister Hornochová at the Dawn House, we were discussing various matters. And if it goes any further, okay, but I'd be a little restrained in introducing it in the time sequence as it is. In two months or three months, as it was set up there, another segment, then another, then another. After we take this huge hit, I'd take some time, I'd evaluate the impact, I'd evaluate how it works first, it doesn't work. And if it doesn't work, then I'd consider what to do next. But here it's set to go one by one. We know what happened with the DMV registry, how it crashed. What has been described here about the operation of the Internet, these are well-known facts, which we all often encounter. So if you want to go through this hood first, for God's sake, let's do an evaluation after the first segment we're gonna put it into. As I remind you again, advanced economies are going the other way, not the way of Croatia, Bulgaria. And then I'd think about it or think about how we're going to move on. But here we just want to stock it up on, like you say, a big part of the market that's involved. And the problems with the car registry, for example, were well known. So a little discretion would certainly be appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u40	Thank you and I will ask for Mr Novotný's microphone, Mr Laudát is ready and then Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, when I try to send the electronic data again and I can't do it, I'll remember Professor Zlatuška's speech and find out that I'm just dreaming and that it's all nonsense. I wanted to say something else. We were here at the beginning of the parliamentary term listening to the situation in the country, how everyone was stealing, how they had to deal with the Rittigs and the Tuscan gang. And I was wondering why the finance minister brought the big board and why it's so big. I understand that we have found out that the centre of organized crime in the Czech Republic is a mysterious company, and it is called the Small Business Ltd., which has the address U šamoška v Benešov, and that this is what is the priority and flagship of this government in an attempt to deal with organized crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u42	Now, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u43	Thank you. Me to Mr. Zlatušek. I don't know who all these insults about cleverness or ability to pass the exam or fail the address. However, I say, if I were the Minister of Education, I'd check who signed his name under all those titles. This includes not only some IQ, some cleverness, but also some moral level. You may think it's funny, but I think he's over it. [[unintelligible]] So he's the last one who could be pouting. And if anyone doesn't know that ad hoc checks are anything other than doing a central repository, putting filters in your program, filtering out data and stuff, dealing with them. Today you know what's going on in the United States. Every database is impervious. I don't know if Babiš will be a better data protector than the information services in the United States. [[10.10 hours]] I would ask Madam President just not to suffer these manners here. 'Cause it could get ugly here next time. So we're gonna turn this place into a commercial or something. Everyone's gonna be running around with signs. The Social Democrats have been running around with signs in the last parliamentary term, that's true, but they've always sat on the spot. If you're aware of the precedent when somebody's running around. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] But I also understand that they both have to laugh so much at the stupidity of coalition partners that they prefer to hide behind the signs so that they don't see the smile. Maybe it's some kind of strategy. Perhaps after a while, they will say that they presented it unconsciously, or that they were unconsciously hidden, and who knows who was behind those signs, and maybe others will testify to it, preferably from the YES movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u44	I thank you and ask for the floor of Mr Kučera. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u45	Thank you for your word. Minister Babiš came to the House and said it was a blabbermouth, and now he's turned it into a manga. I think he may well have been the supreme principal of this mannequin. But I, if I may, would respond to the words of my previous speaker, Mr Janulík. I think Professor Zlatuška might have mentioned him, that Mr. Janulík would not have passed his exam. I would just repeat a few numbers and hope that Mr. Janulík will listen to me. The numbers are as follows. There are 40,000 doctors - according to the medical department report. And that's coming from a medical report. According to the report by the Czech Medical Chamber 20 percent - 20 percent - is not connected to the Internet, Mr. Janulík through... I'm quoting the medical board's report. I'm not saying it's true. Twenty percent, that means 8,000 doctors aren't connected to the Internet. And, of course, the arguments I made here, I'm not saying they're right. I am merely arguing how MEPs argued why they do not want to introduce electronic recipes. And I will repeat them: inaccessible Internet, old technical equipment computer and high age especially practical doctors. So the MPs argued why they didn't want electronic recipes. And I'm not saying the argument is correct. We wanted electronic recipes, those who protested it, used these arguments. I believe that they will also use them in the case of electronic sales records, because the situation there is absolutely, absolutely similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u46	Thank you for keeping the time limit and, please, for Mr Koníček's microphone, Mr Fiedler will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the figures on the receipt are defined in paragraph 20 of the proposal. What you see here, or those data that are given here, is missing. The information referred to in points A, G, H and I of paragraph 20 shall be provided. 1 and the scope of the data transmitted is defined in paragraph 19, and the poster is missing the figure under letters B, C, G, H and I.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u48	Mr. Fiedler's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u49	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to do it again -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u50	Please, Mr. Ambassador, before you start talking, I'm going to ask my colleagues to keep their voices down. I'm sure it's a tense subject, but I think everyone deserves to be quiet about their speech. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u51	Thank you, Madam President. I would react once again to the entry of my fellow Member, Mr Volný, who has not really failed with his invectives, are traditional to the Úsvit movement. Well, especially for Mr. Volný, I'm gonna repeat that. The first issue I said - forty percent of the VAT gap is made up of deliberately distorting figures. Intentionally misrepresenting figures. And if you're saying here, there's probably some tax optimization, and if you're going to say that I'm not going to name now that the big business chains are cutting the revenue from the electronic records system that they've already set up today, I hope they'll write you, Mr Volný, their opinions on the fact that you dare to say that they're the ones who cut the revenue. I think that's the thing about small businessmen. And I would follow up on what my colleague Kučera said. That's what we said today, our Dawn MP, at a press conference. We were also approached by a dental chamber that says that - this is information - a third of doctors, dentists, are over 60 years of age, and in some districts even half. They just end up -- as it was said here, not all those doctors are connected to the Internet, not everyone has that electronic connection. And at the end of their medical practice, they're not going to join in. And since they're at an age where they can afford to close the dental practice, we've been alerted to the fact that these dental clinics can be reduced, and for a number of people, it'll be inaccessible after. So it's one of the other aspects that doesn't appear at first glance, but even there may be an impact of this law. What I say again - we do not criticize the idea.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u52	Thank you. Now please, with the factual remark of Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u53	Thank you. I just want to thank Mr. Koníček for reading the signs I had turned my back so I didn't see them. So he answered my rhetorical question of when the Minister was lying. If he's talking about the data, or if he's talking about keeping it a secret, that's why we can't hold a tender and we have to give the contract to a pre-determined friend. So Mr. Koníček answered that. I can only sigh that the Minister often says that he doesn't lie and steal and that he does it for people. It seems if we take the costs when we take the competition without the competition and take the untruths that he's putting out here, which he says in his explanatory report that the Minister is lying from morning to night, for the people who are supposed to pay him to steal it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u54	Thank you and please now with the priority right of the President of the ODS, Mr Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of my speech, I remind you that I am not speaking with a point of fact, but as an entry into the debate, so my performance will not take just two minutes, but it will only be a little longer. However, I can assure you that it will not be as long as the other performances at second and third readings, where we will have enough time to discuss and explain all our arguments that we have against the introduction of electronic sales records, or registration cash registers. And I suppose that third reading will last until the end of this term, so we'll have enough time to deal with all these arguments. However, I want today to sum up the fundamental reservations that the Civil Democratic Party has against electronic sales records, or, as we call them against registration cash registers, to six basic points in which, on the basis of figures, facts and Croatian experience, I will talk about why this system is dangerous and why it does not help any better tax collection, settlement of business environments and similar things that everyone would certainly support, but why it is only part of the concentrated attack by the government of Bohuslav Sobotka on businessmen, entrepreneurs and, in fact, all hardworking citizens. [[10.20 hours]] Six reasons, then. One. The system is useless. No one doubts that tax collection is one of the fundamental tasks of the state and the state should seek solutions to tax collection. Finally, citizens also pay their taxes to collect taxes in the right way. In this case, however, it is not a better tax collection by the state, but it is a transfer of this duty, this role of the state, to entrepreneurs, to control themselves for their own money. This is a completely wrong concept of tax collection, even if tax collection is really the main motivation with which registers are being prepared, and I doubt that very much here. The system, and it has already said a little bit here in the shrink of notes, is only targeted in proportion to a small part of tax evasion. When we look at the Supreme Audit Office's report, you can, of course, question the reports, but consider it some kind of data file that we have available, so according to the Supreme Audit Office, only 7 percent of VAT blackout is caused by small entrepreneurs and businessmen. Only 7 percent! And yet the Ministry of Finance is focusing all the energy, all the money, all its efforts on this group of businessmen and small entrepreneurs. Why do you think? Today, the situation is that the Financial Administration has all the information it needs to identify who doesn't possibly pay taxes, who cuts VAT, who behaves in some way unstandardized way. Of course, local authorities' officials do not live in an airlock, have enough experience, know taxpayers in their surroundings, carry out checks and can identify these people. They don't need any more complex systems to do it. And if we look at the main argument that we are hearing repeatedly here and that is the only thing that they have introduced in Croatia and that it works in Croatia, we will look well at the data we have from Croatia, and we will look at what the Croatian Finance Minister himself has invited here by our Finance Minister, so we will find that there has been no improvement in tax collection in Croatia following the introduction of electronic sales records. In 2013, after the introduction of registration cash registers in Croatia, VAT collection decreased by 1%. Yes, we can say that it was because a second reduced rate was introduced, but in 2014, VAT collection increased by 1% - but not by registering cash registers, but simply by increasing the reduced rate from 10 percent to 13 percent. The only increase in Croatia, and only temporarily, was the collection of personal income tax by about 8%, but you will all agree with me that this is undoubtedly not related to the introduction of registration cash registers. Corporate tax collection in Croatia decreased by 17 % in 2013, by 15 % in 2014. So where's the improved tax collection? And the Croatian Finance Minister himself, when he was visiting the Czech Republic, if you listened well to him, said that there was no increase in tax collection due to the introduction of registration cash registers. So, as I was saying, first of all, the system is completely useless and does not meet the goals with which it is supposedly being prepared. Two. Registering cash registers, electronic sales records, are a complex area restriction that will bully entrepreneurs and complicate life for all of us, i.e. customers. The state says it wants to punish the dishonest, but instead a priori affects all honest and decent entrepreneurs and complicates their lives. And it will affect all of us, too, because purchases with mandatory receipts will undoubtedly get complicated and often cost more. I don't know if I'd pass the exam with Professor Zlatuška's colleague, and I wouldn't want to rehearse him myself, luckily we don't try each other in college, but I know one thing for sure. I move around the Czech Republic not only in Prague and Brno, and there are problems with data connection in many places. If you say that's not the case, then either you didn't get your heels out of Prague or you're not telling the truth because people have trouble with the data in the Czech Republic. And if I admit that they don't have data problems, maybe I'm quite often having trouble printing a document out of a printer because something isn't working at the moment. Maybe it's my fault, but if it's my fault, then I suppose a lot of other people can make those mistakes. It may be a flaw in the imperfection of the system, it may not be so simple, it may fail sometimes, but if it is based on the fact that the businessman, as the Minister says, will have such a simple application, with which he connects to the printer and prints it all out, I know from my own experience that this will certainly not be the case and that often the sale of goods in quotation marks will get complicated by this simple operation. And we can also ask how many times a day it happens that a printer just runs out of paper when a kid goes to the school to buy a roll or something like that in a shop. Everyone's gonna be there waiting. It's gonna be delayed. Why? Totally useless just because we're introducing a complete nonsense. But with this stupidity, we complicate the day-to-day shopping of a number of ordinary citizens and complicate their lives. I don't even consider the information so trivial, even if it's just the information that we have here on this sign that creates this theatre environment for us in the Chamber of Deputies, that's the information that's very valuable in this file and that it's completely exploitable online. And I'm not gonna push Andrej Babiš here to use them for himself and for his companies, but I don't rule it out either, but I don't want that kind of sensitive information to stand, it's for his officials, and I doubt there's any point in having that kind of information. Of course, it makes sense in terms of business, in terms of competition, but it has no sense of state. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, having this information is a fundamental motivation or one of the basic motivations for implementing this system. At least in Croatia, because the Croatian Finance Minister, when he was visiting the Czech Republic, said that although the tax collection in Croatia had not been increased, the system brought very valuable information, and literally said: "We see how much the businessman has in his account, what he is buying, and whether he has earned on it." In this way, the Croatian Finance Minister assessed the positives of the introduction of registration cash registers. So I don't see any positives in this. I see it as a dangerous collection of data in the hands of the state or, if necessary, in the hands of those who want to exploit it. Three. The system is expensive, it will mainly burden small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and businessmen, but it will, of course, also burden the budget of the state and will have a very likely impact on the customers themselves. When we look at the available data, which is changing differently, but which may already be presented by the Ministry of Finance in a more consolidated form, as they say, we will find that the acquisition of the system will cost the Czech State 370 miles. CZK in the first stage and then the operation of the system will cost Czech taxpayers 170 million each year. Crowns. [[10.30 hours]] Furthermore, there will be some related costs of 130 million. CZK, which is expected to increase employees by 400 people and, of course, this also includes the cost of wages of these new employees, which will be somewhere around 150 million. A year's worth of crowns. So if we add it all up, we'll find that at the entrance, when we implement the system, we'll all pay 370 miles. The crown and then every year we pay 450 miles to keep it. Crowns. These are the costs that the State will have, these are the costs that taxpayers will have, these are the costs that are completely unnecessary. But it will not only remain for the cost of the state, i.e. taxpayers, but, of course, with this system, the costs will also be borne by businessmen and entrepreneurs. And here we can also look at the numbers, the estimates that show how much it's going to cost. So the small seller's checkout will cost at least CZK 5,700, the total costs for the middle company will be around 450 thousand. CZK, then there will be some operating costs of at least 5 thousand. for a year to rent software, internet connection, printer colours, other and other things, and overall the number of terminals to be in the Czech Republic in connection with registration cash registers according to the explanatory memorandum is to be 4.5 million. pieces. Interestingly, the Ministry of Finance, and I think it should be the task of the Ministry of Finance, has not even attempted to quantify the total costs that all this will cost entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. The total costs are interesting and important because we could also derive from the total costs how the introduction of registration cash registers will be reflected in the price of goods and services and what end customers will ultimately pay because they will undoubtedly bear part of the costs associated with the introduction of registration cash registers. And if anyone wants to tell me that 5,000. Kroner, 10 thousand. There's no money for a good businessman, so I'm telling him he doesn't know what he's talking about. Let them look at the crafts they carry out, do business, provide services in our communities and small towns, as it is sometimes difficult, as each thousand grand crown is important to survive. And here they stand, instead of leaving them alone, they introduce a new obligation, which will undoubtedly cost them more and more funds. I know businessmen, I've been to their offices, I've talked to them, who recently bought a $20,000 checkout. The CZK, which records everything to them, is connected to the warehouse, works excellently, but does not know what it should know in terms of the needs of electronic sales records, which means that these entrepreneurs will have to throw out this cash register and buy some other one that will be connected to the Internet and will have the parameters that the Ministry of Finance will require. But for these entrepreneurs to throw out the cash register for 20 grand. And buying another is something he doesn't have to deal with. And these are things that the Treasury is either deliberately or for other reasons disappearing. I don't think it's the 5,000 compensation either. CZK for the natural persons for the purchase of the treasury, which is allegedly planned by the Ministry of Finance, will not solve this issue because for 5,000. You can't even buy the cheapest checkout. The Minister of Finance also says that he will help those involved, first by reducing their value added tax, by reducing the value added tax in restaurants from 21 percent to 15 percent. The problem, of course, is that most innkeepers, most of those who run a restaurant or a small pub, are not taxpayers of value added tax. It is clear from this that the reduction in value added tax will only have a very minor effect on them. And again, let's look at Croatia, look at the model country for Minister Babiš, how it turns out, what the situation looks like there. In Croatia, as a result of the introduction of registers, approximately 35 thousand financial controls per year take place in individual trades. If we applied this number to the Czech Republic, where we have other numbers of businessmen and small entrepreneurs, we would find that we are going to have 35 thousand checks a year in Croatia, with us it would be 115 thousand checks a year. Of course, that will cost the state budget. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Minister of Finance expects to have to hire 450 new employees of the Financial and Customs Administration, which, by adding that Sobotkův's government has increased the number of civil servants by 3,000 since last year, is indeed another horrifying number. And when I talk about the costs -- so I'm still at the third point of our objections, the high costs for everyone, from state to businessmen to customers -- I can't miss a single number, which is also quite striking. There is going to be a promotional campaign, a sort of PR for register cash registers - the first part of the promotional campaign is probably already being seen here in practice in the Chamber of Deputies - and the Ministry of Finance has a sum of 130 million for this promotional campaign. koruna from taxpayers' money. So I just hope that this money, which I consider to be thrown out of the window and completely unnecessary, is not intended for advertising in the media, which happens to be owned by the finance minister and which undoubtedly need advertising because it is from advertising in the declining number of readers that live and survive. Fourth, the fourth argument. The system is likely to cause a large number of small entrepreneurs and businessmen to quit their business. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no threat, no populist haunting of people, this is no fiction. This claim that this will mean the cessation of activities for a number of businessmen and small entrepreneurs is based on the very only experience we all have with registering cash registers, and this is the example of Croatia. Just in Croatia, when we look at Croatia, there were 72,000 before electronic sales records were introduced in Croatia. companies and 190 thousand. The tradesmen and after the introduction of registration cash registers from this issue ceased the operation of 6,000. companies and 33,000. tradesmen. If we count it again to the Czech Republic, we have 159 thousand in the Czech Republic. And we have 642 thousand. tradesmen. In the case of the Croatian scenario, it would mean that 13,000 will end up here. companies and 110 thousand. tradesmen. Someone's yelling "whatever, it's over" at me. I do not think it is as simple as that, because our economy and the employment of our people are not based on the big companies that your President, Madam President, has here, but it is on those tradesmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Without them, our prosperity is completely lost. So whatever your movement is doing to wipe them out, limit them, and give space only to the big ones, so it's actually against the prosperity and future of our country. So not "whatever." After me, the fact that some businessmen and small businessmen will have to quit as a result of the state's actions is absolutely serious and it is an inexcusable thing, because this is not the way to behave. So not "whatever." This is serious business. Think about it, we can talk about it later in those other readings when we discuss this version of the law more thoroughly. [[10.40 hours]] So, to point out once again, in Croatia, it just happened that when registering cash registers were introduced, a number of companies and businessmen were finished. If we apply the Croatian model here, we can assume that this will happen in the Czech Republic. On the contrary, what happened in Croatia - there were large companies. And it is clear that the introduction of registration cash registers is directed against small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but serves large entrepreneurs. We talk all the time about people who do business to the fullest and have business as their main job. But we also have a lot of trades run by people who have it next to some other activity - mothers on maternity leave, crop vendors, seasonal buffets somewhere in tourist areas and so on and so on. These people will be exposed not only to all the difficulties, but also, and this needs to be realized, completely inadequate repression, because if they do not have everything in order, as the supervisory authorities will require, they are threatened with a fine of up to half a million crowns or two years of non-payment ban. I think it's sanctions for these people for some minor misconduct, even if it's repeated, completely inadequate. Five. The proposal envisages completely unrealistic revenues and the expected increase in tax collection, which I already said will not occur, does not correspond to the cost of the whole system. I still can't cope with my mathematical abilities with the fact that the Treasury in the explanatory memorandum assumed at 600 thousand. people involved in the register were expected to receive an improved tax collection of between 10 and 12 billion. CZK and that when the number of those persons involved reduced to half, i.e. 300 thousand, the Ministry of Finance still expects that tax collection will improve by 10 to 12 billion. Crowns. That seems absolutely incredible to me, and I can't explain it any other way than that the Treasury has no analysis and no qualified estimates, and it just wrote some number to make it sound ideological or political, but it doesn't actually expect any better tax collection, because it throws some numbers that some official or politician is making up somewhere. There's no way if there's 600 thousand in the system. People, so the tax collection improved by 10 billion. Kroner, just like when there's 300 grand in the system. people and the amount was still the same. That's completely nonsense. Six. The system does not balance the business environment, but it is prone to corruption. It is a great business opportunity where hundreds of millions of crowns will be distributed. And we can only speculate in advance if they already have a huge amount of pre-determined beneficiaries. Look at the award of the contract, the creation of the system. I think we'll get to that in the next debate. Let us take a good look at the wording of the bill. Let us take a good look at the explanatory statement. The system already allows a lot of exceptions, it's not really clear who, when, to what extent it's going to relate. It seems that the system will apply once to all, but temporarily will be exempted from it and liberated from various types of activities. We don't know for how long, temporarily, long, forever, who. There is even talk of individual exceptions. And you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that such a system, which is somewhat unclear and dependent on the decision-making of someone and with a lot of exceptions and gradual introduction and confusion, is a system that creates quite a great deal of room for corruption, fraud and certainly does not contribute to the predictableness of the business environment that the government is constantly enchanting and committed to. Ladies and gentlemen, so much in brief six basic points, six basic reservations, six basic doubts that we have about electronic records of sales. I think that we are those who have listened to me and who are not ideologically blinded, convinced that this system is completely useless, that it is dangerous, that it will burden entrepreneurs and small businesses and all of us, that it will cost inadequate costs to pay tax payers, that it will have consequences not only for businessmen and entrepreneurs, but for all of us and that it will do no good. We can ask ourselves why someone wants to implement a system with such a vehementism that almost doesn't work anywhere, works in Croatia, doesn't work well there, or doesn't meet the goals with which it was implemented. What is the reason for having something like this in the Czech Republic? I'm sure it's not better to collect taxes. That's what we've shown ourselves. I'm sure it's not a settlement of the business environment, we've also shown that. I'm sure it's not some kind of effective state action. I mean, there's gonna be hundreds of millions of crowns blowing up here. None of this is the real motivation. I think that the only real motivation we have to look for is the dislike of social democracy and the dislike of the big businessmen represented by the Minister of Finance Babiš, to small entrepreneurs and businessmen. For one, they represent competition, and for another, they represent something incomprehensible, dangerous, because they are free, they do something, the state doesn't control it, the state doesn't control it, and it looks dangerous. I think the main reason why the government wants to introduce registers here is in the words of Milton Friedman, who once said: "One motive to restrict freedom of the free market is fear of freedom itself. " Yes, ladies and gentlemen, fear of freedom and effort to control and subjugate everything to the state and some economic interests, that is the true motivation for the introduction of registration cash registers, and that is why the Civil Democratic Party will do everything in its power to ensure that this law does not enter into force in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u56	That was Mr. Petr Fiala. Before we return to the duly registered office, allow me to quote the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. He apologizes for today's meeting with Mr Tureček and Minister Brabec. Now a series of factual points, first Mrs Šánová, Mr Rais, Mr Plzák, Mr Lorencová, Mrs Chalupa and Mr Nykl. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u57	Hello. Mr President, my dear colleagues, there has been an attempt by Mr Koníček on such an excursion into the formalities of documents. I would like to make that clear, because I think it was quite inaccurate. What about the document, the graphic aid, it's not here anymore, it's missing. And that there was so much missing. I'd like to introduce. We have two types of documents: accounting and tax. Accounting documents are governed by the Accounting Act, tax documents are subject to the Value Added Tax Act. This was a tax document, so it is regulated by the Value Added Tax Act. I would also like to point out that the Value Added Tax Act defines more than one type of document, but in particular a normal tax document and a simplified tax document. If a colleague knew what type of document this was, he wouldn't be able to interpret what he's talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u58	Well, thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Rais, Mr Plzák, will be prepared, also for factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I was inspired by the previous speaker's way of basically dividing the political scene here into good and bad. The coalition government in quotation marks is the evil one, of course, represented by the Minister of Finance and throws the tradesmen and businessmen away. The good one is, also in quotation marks of course, TOP 09, ODS and helps businessmen and entrepreneurs. And now the question is, what is the reality and what is the truth, who is helping and who is harming. I think it is necessary to look a little into history, until the TOP 09 and ODS ruled. What happened in 2012 when they were in government. In a very simple way: the income tax rate has been increased by a so-called solidarity tax of 7 per cent of the amount above 1.2 million to entrepreneurs, i.e. businesses, the successful ones. Crowns. In addition, VAT was increased by 1 %. What does that mean? Again, in a very simple way, the success of the entrepreneur and the businessman was sanctioned by an increase in taxes of 8 per cent of the increase in taxes. That's true so far, even if it's cancelled later. That was real help for entrepreneurs and businessmen. And what did the coalition government do last year? I suppose we remember that, too. Print 252 was approved here last year, by which we amended Act No. 586 on Income Tax. Again, very briefly, we all have background reports. The ban on applying a discount on working pensioners has been lifted, so we have basically helped working pensioners out of the sanction imposed by previous governments, and, of course, in 2015 this impact is negative for the government or negative for the state budget, amounting to one and a half billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u60	Thank you, Mr Member, you have run out of time to make a point of fact, and I would also ask the House for peace of mind so that those who speak, such as Mr Rais, can express their opinion in peace, i.e. a comment. But your time is done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u61	Okay, so I'll be very, very brief.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u62	You can't do that, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u63	Okay, well, I'm gonna sign up one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u64	You're running out of time to make a point of fact, if I give you time again. So, now a colleague of Plzák, also a factual remark. Mr. Plzák's on his way. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a point of fact about President Fiala's speech. I was trying to listen to it as a citizen who doesn't go into any details and he's interested in the general, rough arguments. And, of course, I can't advise you, you can argue in front of the public all you want. But I wouldn't use one argument, because when the citizen thinks about it, he actually thinks about it, and I mean, like you said, the businessmen are gonna fail. What kind of businessman is going to fail? Why should a businessman who doesn't have any big expenses with the acquisition and pays taxes normally, does everything, admits revenue, so he probably wouldn't have a reason to fail. The one who apparently doesn't do all this and is deceiving us all will fail. And I think the public will say, well, this argument is limping, these businessmen we really don't need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u66	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Jana Lorencová, on a point of fact, Mr Chalupa will also be prepared for a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor. But I'm not gonna start measuring your time yet. I will really ask the House for peace. If you want to discuss outside the proper discussion, move it into the foyer, all of you. Thank you. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, a moment ago, there was some suspicion of the ideological blindness of those who support the introduction of electronic sales records. We're even under attack here to take thousands, thousands of tradesmen's jobs. A colleague in front of me has already basically said it partly for me. Thirteen thousand businessmen should lay down their business as a result of the introduction of electronic sales records? So, I'm asking, aren't they the kind of businessmen who've been above the water so far just because they haven't paid their taxes? I would like to hear this through Mr President from Mr Fiala of the ODS, because it is obvious that it is actually the tradesmen who have been keeping their hands on the water until now only because they have not paid their taxes. That's one thing. And that's why, with this obsession, we advocate the introduction of electronic sales records. So I'm asking why with this obsession you refuse to introduce electronic sales records, really obsessed, because there is no logic, or it does, and I think that each of us can answer that question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u68	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová, for keeping up with the point of fact. Now, Mr Chalupa, Mr Nykl, will be prepared, also for factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u69	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues. I was provoked here again by the references from the right side about what a corrupt matter it is, etc. I feel like the whole discussion on your part is being conducted by "I judge you by myself." At first it was smiling, but then I thought that your words need to be taken very seriously for their own, as the assessment, because you really have the greatest experience with corruption. And what you're doing here is basically-- you're trying to get that middle and business situation. The whole EET thing is that we want to set fair rules for everyone. I don't know what's so incomprehensible about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u70	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Nykl's factual comment, Mr Rais will be prepared for the factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u71	Thank you for the floor. Good morning. I would turn to Professor Fiala through the President. And I think he was at a different conference with Mr. Boris Lalovace than I was, and he might be talking about another Croatia. There are probably two ministers and two Chorvatsko. According to your statement, Mr. Boris Lalovac seemed to say that everything failed, so you said it here on one of your points. [[Voices from the right side of the courtroom: I did not.]] I mean, they're fine. He said, clearly he said it didn't bring anything. It's not true. In Croatia, 93 percent of the population is satisfied according to the survey that it was introduced there, which is essential. It even evaluates it more than if there was a health reform. That's the first thing. And the second thing, the principle, it's not that we're going to have some billion-dollar profits here in a second. Do you know what Boris Lalovac said it was about? About introducing a kind of morale, because morale, that's the first thing. Baťa said that in 1932. It is not the primary economic crisis, but the primary is moral poverty and moral crisis. Maybe this is what we have here right now, and this is our chance to push it a little bit, and the rest of this is going to come out of it. And do you know what the Minister of Finance of Slovakia Peter Kažimír said? That it's normal, of course, that at the beginning of this introduction there will always be resistance, such screams into the dark, etc., and then everyone will accept it as normal, because normal is not to steal and normal is to be honest. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u72	I thank Mr Nykl for his time. Now, Mr Karel Rais, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u73	Thank you. In the previous remark, I wanted to point out that in 2012 those who are protecting entrepreneurs pushed harder and increased our taxes by 8 percent. On the other hand, what we did is that last year, laws were passed that clearly help retired workers, tax advantages for families with small children, hence entrepreneurs. The conclusion, in essence, is that I consider this instrument to be an objective tool for ensuring a level playing field for business. So it's an instrument that, of course, can bring someone, someone won't be pleased, but as a fellow speaker here said, it will straighten out the culture in the tax collection of society. And I think it's very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u74	I thank Mr Karel Rais. In order to ensure that you do not suspect that I do not wish to raise anybody with a factual point, the order of factual remarks is now: Mr Kučera, Mr Laudát, Mr Fiedler, colleague Kalousek has checked out from the factual point of view. No? But I don't have you here, colleague. I had you here half a minute ago on a factual note. [[Member Urban from the bench: He cannot unsubscribe himself!]] But it's okay. All right. Now, Mr Kučera, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u75	I would only react very briefly here to my previous speaker, Mr Chalupa of the ANO movement, who was jealous of who had the experience of corruption. So I would like to remind him, through Mr President, that the trial has just begun with the main manager of the ANO movement convicted of corruption. I think in that experience, you're catching up on the most horrible examples that have been here in our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u76	Thank you and now Mr Laudát with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u77	Thank you for the floor. I wouldn't want my colleague Nykl's performance to come together. You know, that little Croatian guy was defending the system there, that's true, but he ended up being a total fiasco because his last thing he said was that they're doing a raid or they're about to raid or they're gonna raid a fake gang of taxi drivers who found a way around it. That means it's not working. It doesn't work, and it really does show exactly how wonderful something is to say in the last sentence that it's useless. And that's how his performance really took place. And he said more dangerous things there, but I'm not gonna keep that until the fall, I really don't want to delay today. So if Mr. Fiala said it didn't actually work, then he accidentally confirmed it with the Croatian minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u78	I thank Mr Laudát. Mr Fiedler has now also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond briefly to Mrs. Lorencová. I can see she's not here right now, but she was talking about a bunch of small-scale businessmen on the water line because they don't pay taxes. I guess that's the way it's gonna be with some of the businessmen. I'm sure it's not right, I'm not denying it, or that I support it or that I agree with it. It's reality. And I'm missing a little bit of the impact of the bill proposal on how much it's going to cost us that they're probably going to become unemployed, how much we're going to pay on social benefits. I'm not saying it's great that they only survive because they don't pay or cut sales and hide taxes, but in that case the effects won't be so great. But mostly, why I wanted to make a point of fact. Let me just remind you what I was saying here today: if we were to devote the amount of time to discussing this amendment to the e-booking of sales, we would certainly have done better to avoid spending billions of dollars in tax havens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u80	I thank Mr Fiedler. I'm going to interrupt the hearing for a moment because neither the plaintiff nor the rapporteur is here, and that would be inappropriate. At this point, in particular, the rapporteur has a difficult situation because he has to monitor the debate as a whole. So don't be mad at me for not giving my colleague Plzák a word on a point of fact, but I'll wait until the rapporteur... Of course, he has his normal needs. Please, rapporteur, we can continue. A colleague of Plzák, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u81	Thank you for the floor. I'm done reporting. Just a colleague of Fiedler. I just read somewhere that the office records about 100 grand. vacancies, and I have even read that some employers simply cannot develop other activities because they do not have employees. Well, I guess with the unemployment benefits, it might not be as bad as it would have been if those people then applied to work as employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u82	Thank you and we will continue to have a proper discussion. Mr. MP Michal... Excuse me, colleague Kalousek on a point of fact. I've exhausted all electronic applications for actual notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u83	Yes, Mr President, this is what it's going to look like with the electronic communications, and I've been applying to the actual for quite a long time. I am here to respond only to some myths that ANO colleagues keep repeating. My colleague Chalupa says how it's gonna be for everyone. How can it be for everyone if it's only for someone, just for the sector where Babiš sells his products? This isn't happening for the other sectors. But we say it's for everyone and it'll be fair. Mrs. Lorencová says it has a clear logic. Well, how can it have a clear logic when it's being introduced for someone and not for someone? And how can it have a clear logic when her boss, Minister of Finance and businessman in one person, at one single firm, where I presented it here on his own figures from his annual report, he pulls a 2.8 billion for himself from a thriving business in three years, doesn't pay the state a penny, but after the state, the sitting businessman sitting here after the sitting finance minister, who hasn't paid a penny, will want another 3.2 billion. You call that logic? That's what you call logic towards the entrepreneurs you think you're gonna collect the money your chairman's been sucking out of state budgets from? You won't! He sucks out five times as much as you think you're gonna choose from those entrepreneurs, and that's what you call logic? Is that what you call morale, as Mr Nykl said? Do you really find it moral that your chairman is the biggest sucker in public budgets? When I count all the businessmen in this country, they don't put together half the claims your chairman has after public budgets by paying them taxes and milking them for subsidies. Is this your morale? Of course, that's why he set up the political division that your club is. And to Mr Rais about the taxes. Well, lower them when we raised them wrong! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u84	All right, Mr. Ambassador, time! Two factual points, Mr Faltýnek and the Minister of Finance. Please, my colleague, Faltýnek, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u85	Good morning, colleagues. I just very briefly feel like I'm having an ongoing debate so far. This debate has two goals from my point of view. Firstly, it is a tough effort by TOP 09 and the ODS to at least partially return their constituents from the ranks of businessmen, entrepreneurs and traders, which they have taken in the past, over the past ten years, have come when they said they will not raise taxes and many other things, and have done the exact opposite. And the other is - it has also been said here several times that they simply do not want to have the same rules for everyone. I wouldn't mind, but I don't think I'm gonna have time for that, then I'm gonna try to sign up again, read the letter from the head of the Association of Czech Merchants, which he sent me yesterday, which is 25 percent of the trade market. They're mainly small businessmen. And these, dear colleagues, I don't think you're gonna get on your side because no one trusts you anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u86	I thank my colleague Faltýnek. Now with a point of fact, the Minister of Finance, then colleague Nykl, then colleague Kalousek and the last application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought we were gonna discuss this normally, and it's really not classy. Mr. Kalousek ruined my receipt, it's the Treasury Secretary's property. You say it belongs to everyone, I don't know if we're all gonna write on our own stuff, it's dirty. And again, Kalousek lies dirty. What are you confusing my company with? My company took dividends and dividends between companies in Bohemia are tax-free. My companies paid 872 miles. taxes last year. How much did you pay, colleague? How much? And 2.4 billion. to social and health. So let's talk about the sales log. And the ecology that he has Synthesia? Yes, she does, because she never got the job. Because Minister Kalousek wanted to steal 100 billion with Roman. Through that big environmental contract. Everybody knows that! So, please, have fun with the point and stop lying again. Before, there was a lie about biofuels that I had something, I had nothing, there was no five, and there's nothing, and now you're lying about Synthesia again. Don't mess with me! I'm one of the biggest tax payers here. As a natural person and as a legal person.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u88	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Nykl, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u89	Thank you for the floor. I would like to speak to Mr Laudát and Mr Kalousek through the President. To Mr Laudát, who otherwise interprets Mr Boris Lalovac. It was in Croatian, maybe you had some other translation and of course there could have been some discussion, but the first thought was clear. What he said, the moral approach that was to implement it in Croatia, it was clear. And the fact that it has some weaknesses to begin with, that is, of course, normal. But I guess that Croatian could have been a problem. To Mr. Kalousek. We had a debate on the Croatian model together in December 2014. It was within the medium-term budget. And I told you, our difference is what you call bullying businessmen, we call it a fair and transparent approach. And I'm afraid that's where we disagree. You didn't have a development, I told you at the time to try to meth, and you didn't meth, and if that's how we differ in terms of transparency and morality, then we can't agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u90	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u91	Thank you for the floor. I want to say to the Minister of Finance that if his companies actually paid 872 million corporate taxes, as they say, he was the ninth best corporation tax payer in the last year. He appreciated the 20 best payers, the 20th was around 400 million and Agrofert wasn't among them. That means he's lying! He's lying. Maybe this was true in Slovakia, maybe it was true in Germany, maybe it was true somewhere, but the Czech public budgets did not pay 872 million corporation tax. It's really not for everyone if you're only introducing it for someone, it's only in the sector where Babiš cares. Why do you think in construction and transport these people are much more... Or that restaurants are more con men than those in construction and transport? That's where Babiš wants to regulate it, while he doesn't care elsewhere. And that's what you call morale. And frankly, Dr. Nykl, by your means, I don't know what to metabolize. But if I'm going to metabolize the tax morale of the German financial administration or the Croatian financial administration, I'm going to leave you the Croatian one, and I'm going to work with the German one. Believe it, it's much more efficient.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u92	There. Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Laudát with a point of fact, then Mr Novotný, Mr Koníček, Mr Plzák and then Minister Babiš. All factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u93	Thank you. I don't think I'm against Mr. Nykl. I was just quoting how the famous performance of Mr. Croatian Minister ended infamously. I mean, he admitted it, and it was clear words. We caught up, or now we're chasing a taxi gang that's completely gone around. And whoever's in Croatia knows that when they see strangers, they give other receipts if they even give them. I beg you, everyone knows that the basis of business is morality, not how you compare it with the law. You promised voters how to simplify the law, how you do everything, and now you're reacting ad hocly to some personal feelings, and you want to level with the law. Do you have any idea what kind of jungle you're creating here when he tells the fresh secretary of education in one sentence that by simply cutting off their employment or sending them away on vacation, giving them notice and then accepting them again and breaking the law, and in the other, instead of prosecuting them or suing them, he comes in the second sentence and says, "Here I'm presenting you with a law that forbids it." Well, where are we? You're making this cat even bigger than he was here. Please, what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u94	Thank you for keeping time with my colleague Laudát. Now, Mr Martin Novotný, on a point of fact, will be prepared for a factual remark by Mr Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u95	Colleagues and colleagues, I promise to be brief. There's been big names in these debates lately, Aristoteles and Tomáš Baťa today. He really has a well-known passage that the cause of the economic crisis is moral poverty. I'll read you the last sentence of that famous passage from Tomáš Baťa, which relates perfectly to what recipes you seek for this moral misery, as Tomáš Baťa actually saw it. The sentence is: you are right, you need to overcome the crisis of trust. However, technical interventions cannot be overcome. Trust is a matter of personality, and trust can only be restored by a moral point of view and by a personal example. So I don't know if you should take Tomáš Baťa as the one protecting your technical solution to the morale of Czech entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u96	I thank Mr Novotný. Now Mr Koníček has also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u97	Dear Minister, you may be paying taxes as a natural person, you may be paying taxes as a legal person, but I tried to interpel you yesterday when you start collecting taxes after YES 2011 as Minister of Finance, because according to the Financial Administration's opinion you should be, party, VAT payer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u98	Thank you for reminding me. Now, Mr Plzák, also a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u99	Thank you. I think my colleague Nykl said metaphorize, and my colleague Kalousek heard metabolism. It's about that, isn't it? But that's not what I was gonna say. There was talk of bullying, and then I thought of a good analogy. Stationary radar. It's in the village, is it some kind of bullying? I'm just taking the police octavies that drive and measure on those roads, so they're the kind of checks from the financial office, but the stationary radar that we all know about is gonna make us all go at the same speed or we're just trying to follow it. And that's just the system that we want to implement here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u100	Thank you for keeping time. Now Minister Babiš has made a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u101	Thank you. I thought we were doing the sales log today. And the question. Yes, the YES movement will pay the tax, so I can calm you down. You can't imagine if someone hasn't lied their whole lives, then they're in shock about what Kalousek's doing here. This is unbelievable. So I would repeat once again that the tax payer contest of the Ministry of Finance does not consolidate companies. If she consolidates, my group is the eleventh. And once again, in 2014, my companies here paid 743 million in corporation tax and contributions 2.34, so 3.1 billion in CZK paid. So I have no company outside the Czech Republic, here I pay taxes. The taxes that some godfathers have stolen in the past. That was also one of the reasons I made the movement. So please, let's go back to electronic sales log. I'd love to argue with you, but stop with these invectives and lies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u102	Thank you for keeping time with the Minister of Finance. We are going back to the debate. My colleague Michal Kučera in a proper debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u103	Thank you for the floor. I didn't expect my turn today, although I was logged in last time. However, I was intrigued by Minister Babiš, who said that you can't lie, and then said the sentence: I have no company abroad. That really caught my eye. But that was just a brief remark. I'd like to return this debate a little bit to the actual things. Let me quote some passages from the explanatory note. I think it is quite good at least for the beginning of the debate, which is likely to be very long, to realise some facts, to put them in context and perhaps even in connection with what individual speakers say here today, especially Minister Babiš. [[11.20 hours]] The Government's bill introduces an obligation for entrepreneurs to receive cash sales through an installation sending a payment report to the Financial Authority. According to the explanatory memorandum, the law concerns all business individuals and legal entities and all payments subject to income tax made in cash or in a similar way, i.e. by cheque, credit card, credit card, etc. At least that's how I see it from the explanatory note. The exception is postal services, energy services, banking services, employment claims, public restrooms, ancillary activities of publicly beneficial taxpayers, sales through automata and sales of an entrepreneur made prior to and within 10 days of the granting of the VAT number. There was a big discussion about what the receipt, which the Treasury Secretary so theatrically brought here, was supposed to contain or not. She did not really contain what is stated in the explanatory memorandum. I'll read you one more time what should be there: The report on the registered sales includes the VAT number, the identification of the establishment, the identification of the cashier - I suspect this was missing - the order number of the receipt, the date and the time, the amount, the security code - I don't think it was there either, the signature code was obviously missing, the Minister Babiš forgot to write that, the financial administration should probably come to him soon enough, or at least the trademan would have found it. There should also be an indication as to whether the sales are recorded in the normal or simplified scheme or, where appropriate, other items relating to VAT or intermediate payer. Of course, similar readings must be on the receipt. And they were missing, Minister Babiš. If it is not possible to send a payment report, it must be sent additionally within 48 hours. The Financial Authority may and may not allow a simplified transaction registration regime where it is useful in terms of economy at which a sales report is sent within 5 days, i.e. if it is not required to send it online. [[with emphasis]] A fine of up to 500 thousand is set by law for the failure to submit a sales report. Crowns. However, closure of the establishment or suspension of the activity may also be ordered. I'm warning you - for not sending a message! The effectiveness - and this is also quite interesting, or maybe it will change over time, but I am based on the explanatory report - the effectiveness of the law is proposed on the first day of the fourth month following its publication, not on 1. 1. As my fellow Member here would say in her experience of taxing it would, of course, suit her like any tax advisor. [[shows to the bench YES]] It is the fourth day, the first day of the fourth month after the announcement, when we will be introduced an electronic record of sales, i.e. on 4 June 2030, I hope first. In the explanatory memorandum, at least in the original, which was submitted to us, there was a different information than that presented today, and that is who all the sales records should be valid for. In the explanatory memorandum, at least that's how I was based on it then, for the first three months, the effectiveness of the sales record law applies only to accommodation and catering services, for another three months and to wholesale and retail, from the seventh month to the effectiveness of the law to all branches of business. This was also the subject of interpelation, whether it really applies to all or not. At the time, the Minister of Finance denied his explanatory report at the interview and said that perhaps the person who wrote it wasn't quite right. I'll take the liberty of quoting from his response to interpelation. I quote the Minister of Finance Babiš, a response to who he will actually be paying for or not to be an electronic record of sales. Quote: "Thank you, Mr President. I know... and so on. I don't know how to explain that copying services aren't restaurants and hotels. I repeat: restaurants, hotels, retail. Retail - that's Tesco, Billa, Vietnamec. It's not a copy service." So I conclude from this that even then, even though it was in the explanatory report that it was going to apply to everyone, Minister Babiš decided to only hit the sector that is competitively unpleasant to him, and the services, hoteliers, food, and as he himself says here, Tesco, Billa, Vietnamec. I'm gonna go back to the explanatory note. The Government may provide for regulations which are not subject to registration. Sales need not be recorded if the share of registered sales accounts for less than 20 per cent of the taxpayer's income and at the same time for less than CZK 2 million. An interesting change in view of the benefits of electronic sales records. In the explanatory memorandum we received, the expected increase in state budget revenues is, according to the explanatory report, CZK 12,5 billion, of which an increase in VAT collection of CZK 5.5 billion, corporate tax of CZK 2 billion and personal income tax of CZK 5 billion. That is what I suspect in the last statement by Deputy Minister Hornochová said that the primary is not the tax increase, the primary is the settlement of the business environment, and that the tax increase is not expected. So here again is a contradiction in the Ministry of Finance, and I think Minister Babiš could at least unite his outputs. If not the information he's leaking to the media, at least the outputs for the Chamber of Deputies. As the President of the TOP 09 Kalousek MP has already said here, we are really going with the cannon on the sparrow. Here are substantially other mechanisms that can correct the business environment. Of course, we can talk about the costs that the state will bring to this introduction of electronic sales records. System operation. High cost of operating the system. And the result of the tax collection will actually be negligible, if not negative, according to the latest information from the Ministry of Finance. The application of the law will lead to a deterioration in the business environment, a reduction in labour productivity, an increase in administrative burden, and a significant part of economic activity will be transferred to the grey economy. And these are, please, analyses of professional institutions. This means not equalizing the business environment, but moving into a grey economy. There will be more minions registered as unemployed receiving social benefits from the employment office, less standard businessmen thanks to the Minister of Finance Babiš. The village pubs turn into closed clubs without public access and so on. I think those who want to cheat will always find their way. On the contrary, the good ones will be affected by this regulation. In order to fulfil the purpose of the law, a minor change in the trade law would suffice, for example, to establish an obligation to issue a receipt. The audit could then be carried out through control purchases and the entire expensive electronic sales record system would be useless in that case. I want to say one thing, not paying taxes is a crime today. That's not news. Again, with this regulation, we're going through a cannon on a sparrow. We could apply a simpler regulation, simplify tax legislation, and the result would be exactly the same. Thanks to the Minister of Finance, Babiš will end a number of businessmen, move into the grey zone, and that will be the result of the work of the YES movement and the Minister of Finance Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u104	Thank you, Mr Kučer. Before I give Mr Zbyněk Stanjur the floor with priority rights, I would ask my colleague Kalousek to remove the poster he put up there again. I'm being quite serious. Look, either we respect the dignity of this action in some way or we won't. I think it's been quite enough today. I'd like us to at least keep the deal from last week. I think everyone took a picture. So please, in front of my colleague Stanjura, a factual comment from my colleague Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u105	In a normal situation, I would understand and respect your point, Mr President. But at the moment of demonstration here by huge and senseless signs, the House's chairman did not intervene. So I understand logically that nonverbal communication is allowed here and that it's just a new style of communication. If we say we're not gonna do anything like this anymore, we're not gonna do it. But I really didn't start it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u106	In my defense, I wasn't in charge of the meeting at the time, so I couldn't intervene. So that's probably all I can say. Now, then, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, in his speech with priority rights. But first I ask my colleagues to calm down! I understand that this is an emotional thing, but I do not think it is good for us to bring those emotions into a form that is not a dignified act of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u107	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm going to confine myself to a political or fundamental ideal conflict in this law today. I will try to be, if possible, factual and with two small exceptions, when I will then speak to lighten it up, about two specific paragraphs, and as the petitioner justifies them, that is to say, the government of the Czech Republic. The whole project, when you look at it and you watch the debate, it started sometime in February when the Treasury sent the material to the commentary proceedings. We organized the first of our press conferences on this topic at that time, and since then there has been a debate in public space, and that is good. The debate is not only attended by politicians, but by those involved. It is attended by economic, political commentators, and I think it is not wrong that we can sort out arguments. Why do we say that the project is not economic but political, or rather ideological? We're coming out of those numbers. About 800 billion will be collected in one calendar year. taxes. Roughly. Even if we believed in the government as if we didn't believe it would bring 12 billion. The increased taxes per year, not counting the cost of the state, but even if, now I don't want to argue about it, the government will deny 100 percent of its political energy, deployment, enforcement of the project, which, according to the government, could potentially increase tax collection by 1.5 percent. This is the first argument which says that the project is not economic, that we would definitely join the debate on parameters for the economic project and perhaps come up with amendments. And the second parameter and the second argument why the law is ideological and not economic is actually the SAO's report. I'm sure you won't suspect the opposition is making the report. My colleagues quoted it in front of me, so let me just remind you of the number. The VAT that the state is leaking, and none of us are happy about it, the grey economy to which the register cash registers target is 7 percent. And again - 100% political commitment, 100% political energy. [[unintelligible]] I'm not defending 7 percent of the leak, and I'm not defending that someone doesn't pay taxes! And I reject the simple argument: who is in favour of this law, fights tax evasion, and who is against that law, it tolerates tax evasion. No such thing is true, and we will reject it with all our vehementity. And we will make arguments as to why that is. On the contrary, we have repeatedly said many times in many laws that this government has our clear support in the fight against tax evasion. I mean, it's just a coincidence that the finance minister who puts it forward has extensive business experience and employs thousands or tens of thousands of people. If Bohuslav Sobotka had presented this as a finance minister who had never done business, never employed anyone, we would have been as strongly opposed as when the Ministry of Finance prepared it under the leadership of Andrej Babiš. I mean, it's not an important person for us, the particular person of the finance minister who puts it forward, that's not what we, as citizens' democrats, are going to use in this argument. We don't care about the very principle. And since I said that the debate is going on in public space, I would like to quote from one comment by Mr Lukáš Kovanda, who wrote it, at least the comparison with the Croatian one, I would say more accurately than I would have tried to make those sentences. Let me show you the graph first. [[He's pointing at the paper.]] We're very happy to show you some signs today, so this is a graph. It's not a political message. And there's the ratio, the percentage of the gray economy. There are 31 countries, 28 members of the European Union and three non-members, namely Norway, Switzerland and Turkey. The average in those 31 countries is 18.3%. The Czech Republic is with 15.3%, we have 11 countries that are better off than we are, respectively. 13 of which 11 members of the European Union. And 17 countries and 16 members of the European Union are worse off than the Czech Republic. And I will read the first three that are the worst: Bulgaria 31 %, Romania 28,1 %, Croatia 28 %. Third worst result. Diameter 18, Czech Republic 15.3. And Mr Kovanda wrote these words in the commentary or in the statement I like to quote: Understandably - and I agree with it, so I quote it - a 15.3% share is not a cause for exultation. There's still a lot to improve. However, not only are we achieving lower values than European Union countries on average, but we are quite marginally lagging behind for countries that are often presented as models. Germany has reported a percentage of the grey economy of 12.2, which is a difference of 3 percentage points. A Sweden 13.6, which is a difference of 1.7 percentage points against the Czech Republic. However, another country, Croatia, is given to us as a role model. Because it introduced an electrical record of sales. They have a good reason for doing so in the Balkan country. The size of the grey economy was 28 percent in the survey. Thus, the grey economy is twice the size of the Czech Republic. So now that Croatia is set a pattern for us, and that's the analogy I've calculated, which I like, it's like a double player who wants to become an "A," he's taking a "F" model from a "F" who wants to become a "F." And we all agree that from number two to number one, it's much more complicated and challenging than from number five to get to number four. And if you look at those numbers even closer, then the dynamics of reducing the deficit relative to GDP are also important. And even in this we are better than Croatia, even in those years when Croatia already had electronic records of sales. I recommend it to everyone, it's official tables, it's eight pages, it's a brief comment. Then there is a detailed methodology for how it is calculated and how it is compared. We've heard a lot about equal conditions here today. Some previous speakers have said so. Thus, in the original proposal in February, it was expected that this would involve 600,000 business entities. Even after the scream that triggered the opposition, and we, the Treasury, moved on, and there's 300,000 of them. All of a sudden, it's 50 percent, and it's good. I'm not criticizing that my words aren't turned and twisted. So where's the equality when we put 50 percent under some political pressure out of 100 percent? And if you look at who it is, and some colleagues have already talked about it, it only applies to some segments, and others haven't. And what's worse, even in those segments, there are exceptions today. For example, contribution organisations which are very often engaged in a pub activity as an additional activity and which compete with other establishments in the territory of their municipality or their city. And here, by law, an exception is made for the same activity. Where's the equality you like to talk about? And I, some of us do it, I have press 513 here, I have two bookmarks here, and I like to quote. These are the two exceptions when I say what is not generally political but specific. I called them tips and zvonokos. A tip, then. In a rather interesting way, the problem of tippers is dealt with in the explanatory report. Basically, they say: When a tip is divided between all or most, or at least some in that establishment, it's a random income that a guest appreciates some quality of service, and it's fine by tax. But if only one keeps it, for example, someone has a small business, it's tax revenue and should be subject to all tax proceedings. Well, it seems rather strange to me, and I want to ask you, and it's more of a rhetorical question, and I really don't want to debate the detail today - who's gonna control the distribution of tips in those establishments? How will he show them? Who will control it, how will it be found between how many people and how real such statistics will be? But it's really just to the edge. [[11.40 hours]] And the second thing I want to quote is that section of zvonokosa. The Government proposes that the operation of public toilets be excluded from the electronic sales log scheme. The reason is that "the imposition of the sales registration regime could actually cause a reduction in the supply of services within that type of business'. So, friends of a level playing field for business, when we put EET in public bathrooms, there's a risk of a reduction in supply. But if we put an EET on the other selected types of services, there's no risk of a reduction in the offer. And since photography in public bathrooms has been popular lately, perhaps we could consider exemption from the EET for those who take photos in public bathrooms within new and modern businesses. Now back to the general notes. Surprisingly for me, it is proposed that VAT and income tax be controlled in addition to the Financial Administration and Customs Administration. I don't know why. One of the reasons was the Deputy Secretary Hornochová, who said, "Well, if they're going to go to that restaurant tonight to check on that restaurant, it's a good thing if the armed file goes there. I don't know if this is the right argument when we talk about the professional performance of public administration, VAT and income tax has always been done by the Financial Administration and not by the Customs Administration. I think it's a good thing the Finance Minister is doing these PR promotions for the EET. When there was this big event with the Croatian Treasury Secretary, he admitted that it didn't bring any extra money. And the government assumes additional income. So it doesn't come from Croatian experience. Today on those big wannabe receipts, and again someone talked about it, I already asked a few months ago in the interview of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, how is it that money is being spent when the law is not, and if he was looking after why the NSA provided - preliminary, this must be said - an exception to the Public Procurement Act. The exception was justified by the fact that there are very sensitive data, and the Minister of Finance, under pressure, argues that it may be sensitive data and threaten to be abused, comes with an explanation that there are no sensitive data. So if we take his word for it, I hope he didn't ask for an exemption from the NBU himself, it won't be under secret regime and there will be a standard selection procedure. And a little personal note. Minister Babiš likes to say very often, and I have no reason not to believe that he does not use computer and electronics and such uselessness and that he has the paper. If he was a businessman and someone introduced him to an EET, he'd be in trouble, wouldn't he? Because he'd have to forget his paper, and he'd have to deal with electronic communications with the authorities. And now I don't want to get into a debate about whether or not there's a signal everywhere. So there is a big problem, and I would like to draw attention to that, which our friends from the Republic of Croatia have given us, is the problem of cuckoos. That's where it works in a competitive fight. You know that in restaurants and hotels there aren't very large salaries, and in a competitive fight, you send employees to a competing company with the job of the right citizen, well-marked in advance to get to know him, not to issue a receipt and break the law. And what happens? Who's responsible? Owner! I'm asking how we're going to fight a phenomenon that's really unfair. If you know the labor code, theoretically, you can sue five and a half times the average monthly wage, and that's it. Look at these draconian rates and fines. What's the company owner gonna wear on that employee? Isn't there a reduction in the space for job creation that there will be mistrust between the owner and the employee? He'd rather create two jobs less than risk being sent to him by a rival company? It is not that simple, and I believe that in the coming months, when we will discuss it, we will come back to that. I'm happy to hear what defense mechanism for employers, and it doesn't matter if they're legal persons or businessmen, natural persons, we'll provide them if someone does. You'll never prove the intention of that employee, of course. You can't see into his head whether he wanted to do it or he really just forgot, or I don't know why he did it. So these are really serious reasons that lead us to reject the concept as a whole. And we need to put it back together in the context of the other information. We believe that tax evasion is supposed to be fought and that the Financial Administration has enough tools. Moreover, from 1 January next year, he will receive another robust tool and these are control reports. And again from the expression e.g. Deputy Minister of Finance, who goes to the Committee on Budgets and says: "We know who doesn't pay the taxes, and when we put the cash registers in, we're gonna fly in on them. " I say, "If you know, go get 'em today! Don't wait! Not today, not tomorrow, not the next day. Go today, when you know it so well, check it out, and if someone doesn't comply with their tax obligations, then penalize him and proceed hard according to the law." If they know, why aren't they doing it? Four hundred employees. Today the deputy chief of the Financial Administration spoke, and he was asked, "What are you going to do? How will you control those who report blackouts? And that the additional reports will be okay." He said, "Well, we'll have 400 new people and they'll be checking in." I guess that's the plan. Three hundred thousand subjects, each of whom can report a blackout and a problem, plus four hundred officials. So figure out how many of these subjects go to one official and where he's going to go. It's going to be selective again, and that's the inequality in access to the individual subjects again. As the state constantly collects data on us, on citizens, on those who do business, on natural and legal persons, it produces - we have in our politically favorite word "components." So this law will be more fulfilled - not that they are created, they are already created, or they have already been created - the files will be filled again. In conclusion, I have prepared such a fine analogy. We've got Otesánek here, that's the state we're feeding more and more data to, and he's constantly growing. And here's the idea of how we're going to give this Otesánek another three hundred thousand of our businessmen. Those who laugh today and rejoice that it doesn't concern them, that the Otesánek is eating someone else, they are mistaken because when he grows, he needs that food much more. And the key commodity in the world is information. [[unintelligible]] And that's why we're against it. We're not gonna feed this Otesánek, we're not gonna let that Otesánek eat us, we're gonna defend freedom. And losing privacy means losing freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u108	I thank Mr Stanjur. I state that there has been an apology from Mr. Štětina since 13.30. We will continue with the proper application by Mr Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my contributions in the House usually fit in the form of a factual comment, but this time, after all, there has been so much demagogy here that it really doesn't fit in two minutes. I'll start with the tech stuff. I heard here during Mr Novotný's interpellation, who may have gone either to the restaurant or to the shop on the tent trip, which I can no longer remember, and there he calculated his sales on the solar calculator. He then tried to connect this solar calculator to the Internet for 45 minutes. If he continues this activity, I would recommend, through Mr President, that he take some basic computer literacy course. For Mr Korte, once again, through Mr President, I would like to say that the fact that the Internet is usually at the end of the lead is a relatively standard situation which will become more and more widespread. I'm not a professor of computer science or a professor of cybernetics, but I've studied these fields and I've spent my whole life dealing with them. If I look at how technical problems with the Internet are being signaled here, I'm afraid that banks are being absolutely irrational, and I'm starting to worry about where I entrusted my money, because Internet banking, which is based on exactly the same principle, uses several million people here without any problems. But if I have to take everything that's been said here seriously, I have to think about restoring my visits to the stone branch again because there's a catastrophic scenario at risk. He would like to draw further attention to the fact that one of the important aids to entrepreneurs we are talking about is the construction of a high-speed Internet to which 14 billion will be invested from European Union funds and funds from the Czech state within a few years. They're being mapped. white places where there are really problems with data connection, and they will be solved. It is one of the things that the government will significantly help small entrepreneurs, because it will save them a lot of marketing costs, a lot of the cost of promoting their products, and there is the possibility of creating a new purchasing tool. So the situation in the technical field will be completely different. I would further like to state that, since Mr Kalousek here wanted to introduce the Registering Treasury Act in 2005, the prices of these equipment have fallen extremely. There's a guy coming to my house every 14 days who's got a busted wagon and he brings me beer, lemonade, etc. Each time he pulls out a receipt from a tiny machine, which, of course, he gives me. I don't know what he lives from, probably from hand to mouth, but he really doesn't have any problems with it. And I would just like to point out that the prices of technology and the prices of applications that will require these issues have fallen extremely, so talking about destroying small businessmen is absolute nonsense. When I look at the other things that have been here, and I will take advantage of the fact that Mr Kalousek here has hung up on us that beautiful poster that relates to the great brother, who is looking at how many people drink beer, if the Minister of Finance succumbs to, for example, during the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the irresistible urge to find out what Mr Kalousek consumes in the surrounding restaurants, and I confess that sometimes I also have similar urges, the electronic record of sales, as seen from the small panels that have been here, does not really help him. Moreover, the purchase presented here probably does not reflect the typical purchase of Mr Kalousek - there were bagels and milk, as I recall. [[Fun and applause for members of the YES.]] Then I would like to say that it is strange that, for example, Mr Kalousek is standing here as the flag of the one who will defend the small businessmen and the self-employed. I've been a self-defense since 1990. On January 1, 2013, I stood in a relatively large queue of people who stopped or stopped their business because I calculated that the measures of Mr Kalousek's former finance minister would cost me 60 grand in taxes. This is important help from the self-righteous! That's why there was a line this long. So if someone like that gets into a campaign for businessmen, I'm thinking maybe the peasants at Chlumec turned out a little better. Then I would like to say to what is said here, which means that here in this debate, it is accentuated that the only and great tool to limit data leaks is electronic sales log. That's not true. The government is preparing a number of other measures that will affect other tax evasions that are here. I would further like to state that the fact that the introduction of electronic sales records has spread is a sign of great and considered caution. This is a major intervention and it is therefore necessary to implement it prudently, especially where relatively technical means make it much better. So I consider the procedure cautious, not that we're not just assessing it by the potential tax return that's there. Another thing that is often mentioned here from the opposition is that we constantly assemble and interfere with the market. But we want to compare the market now, because those who don't pay taxes have an unjustified advantage against those who do it honestly, and those in this country are the overwhelming majority. For this reason, I would like to say that although the introduction of this law will certainly not be easy, because it is a rather extensive agenda, so it is one of the steps that should finally begin to say: normal is paying taxes and should be done by everyone in order to reconcile the conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u110	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný. The words will be taken by Mr Martin Plíšek, but only after the factual remark made by Mr Novotný, who has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u111	Mr President, I want to turn to Mr Pilný by your means and very well, because we are getting along quite well with each other on the Economic Committee. You've been working in computer science for years, and there's a certain level of intelligence - one and zero, and there's another layer of human intelligence, like irony. I want to explain my interview performance. I responded to the statement by Minister Babiš that the ladies at our buffet would not have to buy any new register, but that the equipment they have there would be perfectly sufficient. So I brought it, it was a solar calculator. I suppose we really don't believe anyone would think that I have the idea that a calculator like that can be connected to the Internet. I told the Minister that neither the calculator nor the vacuum cleaner nor the iron at home are really going online. Or maybe it was ironic to me about something I didn't say, but what your big boss said. Let's try to understand the ironic layer next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u112	I thank Mr Novotný for his time. Mr Martin Plíšek will take the floor, Mr... [[This is the messenger. Gabal.]] Really? Okay. I'll ask my colleague Plíšek to be patient, and please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Member Ivan Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u113	Thank you. I'll be really brief. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up a little on what my colleague Pilný said here. There's one serious thing I consider essential. If we manage our tax procedure or any other policy based on the prevailing feeling that we are backward technologically, we will be technologically backward. It's known that I'm proposing an electronic election system here. Many countries have tried and gone forward. Estonia is mentioned because it began a long time ago, as my colleague Pilný said, step by step, carefully. If high officials who are electronically illiterate are to decide our system of introducing electronic elections, we will not move forward and be backwards. And then one more comment. You know what the worst thing about democracy is? How expensive elections are, how expensive Parliament is, how expensive the government is. It's all very expensive! We had a system that was cheaper! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u114	Thank you, Mr Ivan Gabal, for keeping time on the point of fact. A colleague of Plíšek's has a chance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u115	Mr President, my dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. Let me also comment on the draft law tabled. The draft sales registration law rightly provokes dissenting reactions. This is also evidenced by the considerable number of contradictions with which the proposal of the Ministry of Finance was submitted to the Legislative Council of the Government. At the same time, common practice is that the contradictions will be resolved already in the context of the commentary procedure. The Government's Legislative Council itself states in its opinion, with which the draft law on the record of sales has been submitted to the Government, that it - I quote, continues to have significant doubts as to whether the introduction of the records of sales and related obligations is in line with the principles enshrined in the European Union's legal acts, meaning the principles of support for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[12.00 hours]] So, if we translate this from political speech, then it will come to light that the proposed government bill is contrary to the principles of European Union law. Despite the explicit warning of the Government's Legislative Council, the government did not take any account of these comments and of these fundamental reservations. And that's not all. The Government's Legislative Council also pointed out the discriminatory nature of the exemptions from the obligation to register sales, having a negative impact on competition, while some exceptions can be considered, again, as support for the State and abuse of a dominant position on the market. This is another inexcusable legislative failure where the government consciously promotes a discriminatory standard limiting free competition. The European Commission and, where appropriate, the Court of Justice of the European Union may reasonably be considered not to be so benevolent. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic can be expensive in the form of financial sanctions precisely because of a breach of the law of the European Union. The fact that the government clearly rejects the recommendations and opinions of its Legislative Council can set a very dangerous precedent. The Government's Legislative Council is a purely expert body, which is primarily responsible for the care of the legislative quality of the submitted government bills. Ignoring its recommendations will necessarily lead to an even bigger legislative jungle, which is already a legitimate subject of criticism to the general public. However, the proposed bill is systemically wrong, regardless of the fundamental comments and shortcomings raised by the Government's Legislative Council. It introduces completely unnecessary bureaucratic measures, thanks to which the Ministry of Finance will have a perfect overview and monitoring of the national movement of goods and services and the Minister of Finance will get information in the performance of his duties as Minister, which he can use for the benefit of his business. The law further ambitiously assumes that the electronic system, which will have to handle a huge amount of data, will be functioning seamlessly in a few months. This idea is not only really smiling in Czech real estates, regardless of the enormous cost of purchase and maintenance, which the explanatory report puts undervalued. Only a seed bead can then be the state's anticipated interest in whether a receipt issued to them will be properly registered, which they can easily see. There is a state-organized system of reporting, which, unfortunately, already has a tradition in Czech conditions, and so it can only be said that in this respect it is nothing new under the sun. I would therefore like to conclude with a summary of my speech. According to the Government's Legislative Council, the standard presented is contrary to the principles of European Union law and to the principles of the law of the Czech Republic. It introduces a regular Big Brother, while fulfilling the purpose, i.e. increasing the revenue of the state budget, is questionable and dubious. The cost of implementing the system will be considerably high and expected revenues, on the other hand, highly uncertain. Therefore, legally and legally, it is not possible to agree with the proposed law, and I join the proposals for rejecting it at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Have a good afternoon. We will continue the proper debate. Another enrollment is Mr Tomio Okamura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, misguided good intentions lead to hell. So we can sum up the government's idea of tax collection by introducing online registers in pubs and stores. And for myself and for our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, I say to the SPD that we will not betray businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Indeed, the populism of this government goes beyond all bounds. It does not consist in the absence of online registers, but it is that citizens do not have confidence in this state that their taxes are used effectively. Instead of putting this government to work to increase citizens' trust, it basically only introduces some restriction. If this government were really sincere, it would have voted in favour of my bill last year, when I wanted to introduce a duty of so-called care for the proper economy, as well as for the authorities and for ministers, that means a clear personal material and criminal responsibility also for ministers and for the authorities. But the government voted against. This means, on the one hand, the government itself, the ministers themselves and the governors of this government, refuse to be controlled, refuse to have material and criminal responsibility, and, on the other hand, they want to impose the same on someone else, some restrictions that are not a system design at all. So it's the populism that, instead of the government getting a job and really trying systemically to increase citizens' confidence in the state, which is work for years, for years, and it wants the government to have a certain vision that she lacks, so here it presents such strange proposals. Yes, the innkeepers certainly don't pay taxes on all sales. But let's ask why. Most of them, especially in the poorer areas of the Czech Republic, try to keep the lowest prices and pay taxes at the current level simply cannot. The Czech Republic has one of the highest taxes in the world, yet this fact does not manifest itself in the lives of citizens. For example, there is only 8 percent VAT in Switzerland or Japan and 21 percent VAT in our country. And the government also forgot to tell us that when the Chorvat introduced online sales registration, they simultaneously reduced their taxes by tens of percent. And the most remarkable thing is that the government is inspired in economically bankrupt Croatia, instead of inspiring the tax systems of the most advanced Western countries, such as Switzerland. The government also forgot to say that Croatian innkeepers have absolutely different sales thanks to mass tourism than for example the innkeeper in Bystřice pod Hostýn or in Otrokovice za Zlínsko. And, of course, they also have much higher prices in Croatia. The introduction of online registration is useless and stupid. In fact, the four billion cashiers and software manufacturers will pay all of us, at higher prices in restaurants and in aid to workers, about a third of the businesses whose businesses will then go bankrupt. The solution is simple. It is enough to introduce a flat-rate tax where a businessman pays a fixed amount once a year, and then whatever he wants to do. This is how it works in certain fields as well as in developed Western countries. It would be a relief not only to the tradesmen, but also to the state would save billions for the huge apparatus that today controls taxes and which will grow even further after the introduction of online registrations. After all, that is the principle of this government's functioning. Instead of looking for savings in her own apparatus, she's just bidding more and more burdens on the citizens of this republic. They don't want to save themselves, but they make it harder for others. In other words, the state would not have to collect such large taxes because it would have lower costs. But this solution we're proposing has one big minus. No lobbyists or suppliers will be restocked. Only the tradesmen and us citizens will get it. And who would want that from the government, right? For our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy SPD, on behalf of and on behalf of my colleague Radim Fiala, I promise that we will never betray businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and we will not support this government bill, since we have both been businessmen for twenty years and we know how hard it is to support ourselves in these bureaucratic conditions and at the same time to guarantee all our property, unlike this government, where some have never even worked in the private sphere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Adolf Beznoska is now next in the debate, Mr Radim Holeček will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is long. I'm sure it's gonna be very long in the fall, so I'm gonna cut my performance short to just some more or less factual points. The whole project, and it is obvious, I consider as my colleagues from the Civil Democratic Party to be unnecessary, unnecessary, and because the cost of purchasing and operating costs will be in the billions, so will the expensive. In particular, the State and the Financial Administration have all very good means for effective tax collection. The intention is also discriminatory because it affects SMEs in particular and also selectively. For these reasons, I see this as a harmful thing. But what I feel is that this thing, EET, has some logic in how the left-wing government, the left-wing coalition is constantly pushing small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to eliminate them as a class. More and more things are recorded, data are collected and creeping, the Czech Republic is changing in an inconspicuous way, losing its freedom, becoming a socialist state with typical oligarchist elements. The legislators particularly mediate that they are fighting against the grey economy, but the grey economy is not the biggest problem in the Czech Republic. I would repeat here, and I draw from the same material from Mr. Lukáš Kovanda, which is an excellent financial analyst, a few numbers. The share of the grey economy in the gross domestic product of the domestic economy in 2014 was only 15.3%, which is lower than the average of the European Union, which is 18,6 percent. What is very positive is also the trend that has occurred in the last 12 years because the share of the grey economy in the Czech Republic is constantly declining. For example, in 2003, we had a share of about 20 percent. We're 5 percent better today. Of course, that's no reason to cheer, but it's gratifying. Not only are we better than the average of the European Union, we can still compare ourselves with the countries that have been and are issued as a model for us. For example, Germany reported 12,2 % of the grey economy last year, Sweden 13,6. The focus of the Minister of Finance in his explanation is still the direction of Croatia. I remind you that the share of the grey economy in Croatia in gross domestic product is 28 percent and the rate of decline after the introduction of the EET in Croatia is still even slower than the decrease in the share of the grey economy in the Czech Republic. So I really don't think that Croatia could be our role model. What about the other side? If we look at the factual things that we should be interested in and which we should be dealing with, it is, for example, tax burdens, levies. These are the things that put the Czech economy in the back of the European Union. In terms of time research and empirical evidence, what causes leakage into the gray economy? First, the quality of institutions. The bigger the bureaucratic apparatus, the greater the share of the grey economy. We've accepted 3,000 new officials, we've got about fifty new deputy ministers. Second, regulation. The harder regulation, and we're still trying to introduce some regulation, the greater the ambitions of companies, businesses, traders to escape into the grey zone. Third, the quality of public services. The better the quality of the public sector, the smaller the leaks to the grey economy. Those are the important things. And statistics show that repression is only coming in fourth place - and we are now starting to repress. Instead of taking systemic measures, we use what is effective only as the fourth in order. I understand that, and we all agree that taxes should be paid. They're supposed to pay in full. But if the government really concentrated on collecting and paying taxes properly, it must not focus on one single segment and, in its importance, the least important segment. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to focus on the really important things, and unfortunately this government is not yet doing so, I have not seen any profound structural change here yet, apart from the redistribution of money and the support of certain electoral groups, we may not have had to discuss together for so long whether the introduction of the EET is effective or not. To me, the 300, maybe 400,000 entrepreneurs who can be threatened by it are worth it. And I will fight against the introduction of electronic sales records. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u120	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Radim Holeček, his contribution to the debate, Mr Vilímec will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u121	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it was October 2013. There were three weeks left until the parliamentary elections, and from the big businessman and the current finance minister, the Prime Minister and the spiritual father, the idea that the state had to be run as a company, they understood as a big company, ideally like Agrofert, in one person we learned that small and medium-sized enterprises were clichés and just bullshit. With a distance of less than two years and in the context of the press that we are discussing right now, it is evident that the sentence was most stupid, but all the more sincere. But it may be hard to expect a person who is able to release such a sentence from his mouth to do anything other than fulfill it in practice if he gets the opportunity to do so. And he got an opportunity, so he's fulfilling it, unfortunately. It is a pity that, with the enthusiasm that he is trying to convince us today that his Balkan colleague's practices are the right recipe for us, he prefers not to fill the state register with up to 200 billion. Every year, which he so convincingly talked about in the election handing out doughnuts and tricked them into trusting voters. The EET is therefore nothing but a logical and predictable consequence of Mr Babiš's attitude towards businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, combined with the fact that he has become Minister of Finance, and thus has the real power to vent this attitude towards them, not only verbally, but through tools for their bullying and gradual liquidation. EET is such a tool. And it's a highly sophisticated tool. Eliminating competition between small entrepreneurs and businessmen individually is very lengthy and therefore not very effective. It is far more effective for such a struggle to deploy a weapon of mass destruction. And EET is nothing but such a weapon of mass destruction against businessmen and small entrepreneurs. Little turn, by the way. With weapons of mass destruction, people have a wealth of experience from Mr. Big Businessman - for example, to eliminate competition in agriculture, they like Roundup. But back to the EET gun. The effects of this weapon, if actually deployed against businessmen and small entrepreneurs, will be gradual. The first wave kills the weakest of them, the ones who fail to meet the technical conditions. Another wave sweeps away those whose business with increased costs, which the introduction of EET is proven to bring, will simply no longer pay off. And in the third round, even those who say to themselves that the state fag and the constant deterioration of the conditions of small business and the operation of trades simply do not need. And what awaits those who endure? This is very difficult to estimate today. After the recent conference on the EET, Croatian Finance Minister Lalovac, it is probably possible to expect anything. So much for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask Mr Vilímca for his contribution, Mrs Lorencová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u123	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance has tabled a bill that is a flagship of his. I would have expected, therefore, that at least in that entrance centre that took place 14 days ago, it would have explained very in detail the reasons and pitfalls of this very, very dangerous law. However, this did not happen, his introductory word was very brief, about three minutes, and today the minister rather limited himself to his defence as an entrepreneur, not to information related to this bill. You know, I feel that this law on electronic records or electronic cash registers is, above all, a decoy, a media event that the Minister wants to divert attention from the promised and unfortunately unfulfilled things in the position of head of state finance. The minister, although very vehemently, mainly verbally struggling with carousel fraud, is already struggling less with tax optimization. But even if I admit that he has honest intentions, unfortunately, it doesn't show up for VAT collection, it's his efforts. Even at the end of June, the national VAT collection still lags by 7.5 billion last year. The crown and it's only 2.5 billion. larger than the previous year 2013, all in a situation where our economy is growing. I do not understand this very well, but I may understand that in this respect the Minister of Finance is looking for the missing money elsewhere. Unfortunately, he's looking for money in a very bad place in my judgment. According to him, electronic sales records are supposed to help fight dishonests, people who don't pay taxes. I agree that paying taxes is normal, and I will not object to that. The Minister, and I must underline this, has quite successfully contacted the current management of the Chamber of Commerce as well as the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, more precisely Mr Vladimír Dlouhý and Mr Karel Havlíček. I give my full names so that, especially in the case of Mr Havlíček, there is no confusion with Mr Pavel Havlíček, a small Klatovský entrepreneur, a butcher who is very bravely fighting against electronic sales records and very cleverly stating all the reasons and risks of this law. And when I go back to the two presidents mentioned, neither of these gentlemen really interferes with the electronic record of their sales, and they basically don't care whether or not they get away with the Electronic Recording Act. In any case, the Ministry of Finance gives them the largest opportunity to perform in favour of the introduction of electronic sales records at its official events. You know, the sentences about balancing the market environment are actually very well listened to. However, in the case at hand, it is not about any alignment of the market environment, rather about the distortion of the competitive environment, as it turned out in the Croatian case, because the fiscalization of sales, as it is called there, was made mainly by Ivica Todorić, the owner of the group not Agrofert, but Agrokor. Secondly, account must be taken of who the new rules will come first and foremost what the practice will be. Many reasons have already been mentioned here and pointed out the danger of this law, the fact that the law is very expensive, so I do not want to repeat it now in the first reading in the general debate. I must say that I am quite surprised and surprised that the Ministry has copied in Croatia, a country that has a large percentage of the economy illegal, and yet Minister Boris Lalovac claims that the Croatian model of electronic cash registers has proved to be successful. It's not true. First and foremost, it did not lead to any clearly defined increase in tax revenues - I do not want to repeat that here, but I have the figures that have already been mentioned here. And after all, I'm still a little shorthanded, though not as precise as those who write down the House's proceedings, so I also wrote down some of the translation, because I don't speak Croatian, from what Minister Boris Lalovac claimed at the presentation on June 16th. And he made it clear in that one of his replies in his presentation of so-called Croatian achievements that it was not really the main objective of sealing holes in the budget, i.e. increasing tax collection - it also turned out that it did not lead to any higher collection - but its main objective was so-called - and I quote precisely - "simplifying communication between entrepreneurs and the financial administration." This proposal also really follows something a little different than the alignment of the market environment. You know, the assumption that there will be an increase in tax revenues of 12,5 billion or 11 billion per VAT after the adoption of the Electronic Treasury Act is basically based only on inconclusive estimates. If I say 20 billion, or 25, it has the same relevance as 11.5 billion, because no analysis has been carried out. In fact, the VAT gap in those areas where it is to be introduced first is not large enough to really increase the VAT collection by 11.5 billion. If it is based on so-called Croatian data provided by Minister Lalovace on the expected increase in sales, it should be stressed, and it has also been said that in Croatia there is a much higher percentage of entrepreneurs connected to the services and tourism sector, this is accommodation, catering or retail. It has also been calculated here what this proposal will bring. The President of the ODS focused mainly on the figures given in the explanatory memorandum, which states that 400 workers will have to be recruited by the Financial Administration to control this system. But Deputy Secretary Hornochová for her recent presentation, and I think it was also in Pilsen, because she goes around the individual regions, and I think it was also in the papers, she admitted that in addition this system envisages an increase of another 200 analysts. The Minister of Finance in Hospodářské noviny indicated that only the wage costs of these workers would be CZK 200 million per year. So it's just kind of an addition to the list of costs of this system. You know, I've studied hundreds of comments because I've been interested, and not just for political, but also for economic reasons, which have been applied by individual comment points. If some ministries, especially the ministries led by ministers for the KDÚ-ČSL, were opposed to this law, in fear that it would fall on their organizations, some organisational forms were simply removed. So, for example, hospitals, it has already been mentioned here, as contribution organizations are legally excluded, or other institutions, regions are excluded, but not regional hospitals as public limited companies in full ownership of the regions. I guess they're more dishonest. So, of course, there's more nonsense like that. Many of these comments were removed from the table, many objections could not even go to the Ministry, because not everyone has the privilege of being able to make an official statement on the bill in the context of external comments. Then I would like to do it in second reading, now I will not quote it from a very comprehensive and honest analysis of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Traders of the Czech Republic, which unfortunately is not a point of reference. Of course, the Minister of Finance may argue that each interest association always uses data in its favour. However, unlike the Ministry of Finance, data from at least this association are taken from official sources and estimates are not distorted. [[12.30 hours]] I would like to ask the Minister - he is not here - also specifically the examples, mainly the reasons contained in § 37 para. 3 where they are not temporarily registered sales by the taxpayer, which will not exceed CZK 2 million in the immediately preceding tax period of income tax and 20 percent of the sum of its sales to be recorded. The diction of this provision is very complex, it has also changed several times in the context of the drafting of the bill, it will be complicated to evaluate and it is also a question of who is actually tailored to such a provision. I am a long-time locality growing smaller cities, and I also warn from this position that the obligation to electronically record sales will be reflected negatively especially in the countryside. Even now in smaller cities, in case you haven't noticed, and I believe you're seeing it, you're losing business, catering facilities, and local pubs, because their owners aren't actually paying off the heavy traffic associated with administration and a lot of responsibilities. The effort to make electronic records of sales following the model of Croatia will undoubtedly lead to a further decline in these services. Not because of the closure of establishments due to the so-called former dishonesty of entrepreneurs, but mostly because this financial police system has great operational difficulties and it does not pay off to small entrepreneurs at a minimum profit. Finally, a reduction in the number of entrepreneurs in this area admits an explanatory report, you can read it. According to her, some people find another job, some of them end up in employment offices. In summary, the bill on electronic records of sales has rightly sparked a great discussion, and that is correct, but it has also provoked an outrage of those to whom it touches. They are not gentlemen or Babiš - who came - neither Sobotka nor Mr Havlíček Karel. [[to the hall]] It's hundreds, maybe thousands of tradesmen fighting to survive every year. I have met many of them in Western Bohemia in recent weeks and months. These are people who work honestly, who are trying to pay taxes, and they don't whisper much, even I think they're ready to deal with the electronic record of sales, even though they're going to grow again in administration, costs, they're going to have to introduce new procedures for stock records, etc. But what he fears most is the future. In fact, Mr Babiš told them by this bill that they would be the main thug in society and the people that the state could lay on its back again without hesitation. I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but after all, the above-mentioned total control can be used at any time. It can, for example, state. serve to find arguments for further restrictions whenever necessary. After all, when Minister Babiš refers to Croatia, the Socialist Government in Croatia - because Minister Boris Lalovac is a Socialist Minister of Finance - uses this method to control not only what Minister Babiš proposes so far, but also the state of daily cash or perhaps compliance with employment regulations. The e-booking of sales law is simply a sign of distrust and a pursuit of people who want the least of all of us from the state. For this reason too, of course, I join my previous speakers, and I propose rejecting this bill, an unnecessary, dangerous bill, right at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u124	Before you go, I want to ask whether you are proposing to reject the House press only 513, or both, and 514.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u125	Since there is a joint debate, I propose both.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u126	Both. Okay, thank you. President Kalousek is now reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u127	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you will understand, because I think this is quite an important message that I will wait for the translator to call. Thank you. The discussion about electronic sales records is not just a discussion of whether the biggest fraudsters are businessmen and whether the biggest problem of non-tax payments is the reduction of retail sales, but where the biggest sales cut is actually taking place. I have tried to stress here in my opening speech that how some oligarchs like Mr. Finance Minister Babiš can do so. optimize your taxes, that this means far more evasion than anticipated tax collections than any tradesmen's leaks. Vice-President of the Government, loyal to his position, whoever tells Mládek, Hašek, always says he's lying. So I want to ask you too much to prove - you know I always come from open sources. When I showed on Synthesia Pardubice that the Deputy Prime Minister was milking the state budget without paying for it, I was merely drawing from open sources - annual reports by Synthesie Pardubice. When I prove he can't collect taxes, I draw exclusively from the Ministry of Finance's open sources. So now I'm also going to quote the Vice-President of the Government as he comments on how he pays or doesn't pay taxes. 7. 7. 2015, which was three days ago, Prime Minister Babiš, when I asked him how it was possible when he claimed that he was paying so much tax that he wasn't among the top 20 payers, so he got upset and said, "It's a dirty lie - it's a common wording in front of a parentheses, it's a dirty lie, a parentheses, behind her can be Šincl, Hašek, Kalousek, Blažek, Benda, whoever - it's a dirty lie, says the Deputy Prime Minister. It's a dirty lie, we paid 752 miles. taxes, only that Kalousek counts wrong, because Agrofert - now I ask you to listen to me - Agrofert is a large taxpayer in Germany and in Slovakia as well as in other countries. I'm asking you to verify on the record that I've admitted yes to this case, that's true, if you pay taxes elsewhere, that's a distorted figure. That's what happened to seven. 7. 10. 7. at 11.20, which is two hours ago, here said the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, when I pointed out that his payment morale is cutting public budgets ten times larger than the payment morale of businessmen, so here the Vice-President of the Government proudly said - and once again, you can verify it in a stent, I'll just quote the steno: Again, in 2014, my companies paid 743 million in corporation tax here. and taxes... blah blah blah blah blah... so I have no company outside the Czech Republic, here I pay taxes, those taxes that some godparents have stolen in the past, and Mr. Kalousek is a liar. So once again: 7. 7. says the Minister of Finance and Entrepreneur: Agrofert is a large tax payer in Germany and in Slovakia and other countries. It's in the gutter, I believe it, I think it's true. 10. 7. says: I have no company outside the Czech Republic, here I pay taxes, those taxes that in the past... blah blah blah... Kalousek is a liar. Surely you, too, who are rooting for Minister Babiš, understand that these two statements are in direct contradiction. Be as seven claims. 7. Agrofert is a large tax payer in Germany, Slovakia and other countries, or as it claims 10. 7. I have no company in Slovakia and somewhere else and I pay taxes here. Either he lied to 7. 7. or he lied 10. 7. If you want to solve the riddle, I dare say he lied every day because he doesn't do business and he doesn't do politics. I'm not surprised, I know. I've known for 20 years he's a thief and a liar. [[12.40 hours]] I just don't understand why people whose decency I have no doubt, Professor Vyzula, Mr Schwarz, Mrs Lorencová, Dr. Plzák, Mr. Kolovratník, when confronted with these statements, Mr. Matěj Fichtner, when confronted with these statements that 7. 7. his boss says "I pay taxes in Germany, Slovakia and other countries, you lie!" and 1. 7. says "I don't have a company outside the Czech Republic, I'm just paying taxes here!" - that you're capable of accepting it. That you're able to accept that your boss is a thief and a liar! That he really lies like that all the time. Please look in the shade. Look what that liar and thief said to you here. 7. and what did he say to you here 10. 7. And then keep calling him boss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u128	In fact, Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš are reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u129	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. If I had been talking like Kalousek for 20 years, of course I would have spoken better, or better, I'm sorry, I can't speak as well as Mr Kalousek. So, of course, I was thinking of an offshore firm. A company like Mr Kalousek has with Háva in Austria, Switzerland, where he stole the billions. That's what I meant. I've got all the companies here, and I've got six thousand people in Germany, and so on. Yes, I am the largest employer in the Czech Republic, the third largest exporter and my companies paid 3.1 billion in corporate taxes last year, social and health. So I'm sorry, I made a bad statement. I meant the offshore company. We have 15,000 offshore companies. And how many of those offshore companies where we don't know where the owners are doing the business with our state? So I'm sorry, I'm a bad rhetoricalist, but I think everyone understands. And I guess today's meeting isn't about Babišův's taxes, but I think it's about records of sales, and I'd really like us to discuss the record of sales, not my person.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u130	Thank you. The President Kalousek shall report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u131	Excuse me, Mr. Businessman and the biggest tax payer and the biggest milkman of public budgets that I can't separate from each other. [[The speaker is warned from the diaper of a bad address.]] Sure. Excuse me. Through Mr President, forgive me, Mr Big Businessman, Minister of Finance and the biggest milking officer of public budgets, that I cannot separate it, because we are discussing the problem of where the non-tax collection is. If it's Klatovský's Mr. Havlíček, who accidentally didn't bill the sausage, or the Becky Mr. Valenta, who, for God's sake, didn't charge the stew, or the oligarch Babiš, who from Synthesie Pardubice - and now I quote his public annual report that he didn't pay the crown for corporate taxes, but on the contrary, he wants 3.2 billion from the state. So that we can all figure out whether Mr. Havlíček of Klatovy or Mr. Valenta z Bechyně or Mr. Babiš z Průhonice is really taking out those public budgets. I do not impose my view on Mr Schwarz. He's convinced the butcher Havlíček of Klatovy is hurting those public budgets more than Mr. Babiš of Pruhonica. I'm just trying to say those volumes. Mr. Havlíček of Klatovy, when he hid the sausage, cost the state budget CZK 7.60. Mr Babiš only wants to rob public budgets by 5 billion on biofuels, and only in the case of Synthesie Pardubice steals public budgets by another 5 billion. Since it has 200 other companies, you can multiply, add and speculate. After all, in the second and third readings, we'll see about that. I really - I really aim at this, given that I think that the six-year practice of the Minister of Finance entitles me to this to a large extent, I really aim here during the second and third reading to introduce the House to the tax and payment morals of Oligarch Babiš, who is trying to explain to the nation that the tradesmen, the havlíček and the Valent, are responsible for not collecting the taxes. But it's these, these oligarchs who don't pay a penny, then they want billions of subsidies, then there's crazy deficits. The deficits are because they want the subsidies, and when it's impossible, they say it's the free tradesmen's fault. The guy who's the finance minister here. Do you realize that? Someone wants to know, maybe not. But one more time. When Mr Schwarz, as an investigator, was able to take the floor, my colleague, through Mr President, ask your boss what he meant when he was 7. 7. He said that Agrofert pays taxes in Germany, Holland and Slovakia and everywhere and that I can't chase him for not paying enough here to then 10. 7. He said that Agrofert pays taxes only here. And at the same time, he's babbling about the 717 billion he paid here, and we all know that the 20th-best corporation tax payer has paid 420. And that's not where the 20th place Agrofert is. Of course, the explanation is that he paid a lot in Germany, that he paid a lot in Slovakia, after all he has who and for what, if I recommend the article Dusno in Šalerm, and thus paid little to the Czech Republic. But then what he said three days later, that he has no company anywhere else and that he pays taxes only in the Czech Republic. Of course, we all know that companies have taxes in Germany and Slovakia as well. Then why is he lying to us on the 10th and telling us - I'll repeat it once again: I repeat, my companies here have paid for... some numbers. I have no company - I quote now the Minister of Finance, the owner of Agrofert - I have no company outside the Czech Republic. You don't have a company in Germany, through Mr President? You don't have a company in Shalerm? Why are you lying to us like this when you've got companies outside the borders of this country? Those taxes have been stolen by some godfathers in the past. Mr. Babiš stole most of this place. And since he stole the most from here, with the godfathers, in that desperate, crazy situation that really was so scary 25 years ago... There was only a burnt land here, and that unfortunate Babiš really just became a billionaire. He can lie. In three days, he can resist. I refer again to the open screen. And once again I refer to the honourable Members YES 2011. I've known him 25 years. I've known for 25 years that he's been lying and stealing. It's no surprise to me. But you should realize why you're 7. 7. Says something other than what 10 tells you. 7. Why he is unable to pay the koruna from a prosperous company in taxes to the Czech Republic, even if he withdraws almost 3 billion from the company. Now I'm talking about Synthesia Pardubice. And in the second and third readings, I will introduce you to the annual reports of other companies, Andrej Babiš. And I'm just gonna quote open sources, I'm not gonna make anything up, I'm not gonna lie. I'll only say what he's publishing. He's publishing that he's stealing! It's just that nobody notices, because he's screaming that the tradesmen steal the most. And I turn to you, polite members of the YES 2011: How long will you eat that up for him?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u132	I note two factual points, or yes, respectively, the first is Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš and Mr. Komárek after him. I would merely like to call on all those discussing this discussion to be harsh, but without personal insults and invectives, which I would appreciate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u133	It's a shame you won't invite us to discuss sales records, because now we're discussing... I'd repeat that to Mr. Kalousek. I even have a new reading here. I've been a physical person for the last five years... [[Mr Kalousek is speaking to the President. Minister Babiš looks around looking for him.]] He's gone, he's probably gone back for a shot... No, there he is, upstairs. He paid 214 687 660 crowns as a natural person. Last year, my companies in Bohemia paid 3.1 billion social, health and legal contributions. And of course I have companies in Germany that pay big taxes. Even in Slovakia. And the fact that I said I was wrong and said companies abroad instead of offshore. Okay. So I said offshore. Didn't I say offshore? I'm so sorry. I've explained it. But apparently Mr. Kalousek needs to have this debate in a different direction. Let the citizens really judge who the Minister of Finance is. Mr. Kalousek owed this country CZK 670 billion in debt. 670 billion crowns. For your actions. For that is block/blog (?) Official. On the contrary, in my office, I reduced the debt of the Czech Republic by CZK 20.3 billion. He's down! So let the citizens compare who does what. And I collect the taxes, too. I raised 30 billion more taxes last year. So I'd really like us to go back to electronic sales records, because this debate isn't classy. The whole behavior here isn't classy. I'd like us to go back to the sales log. And if Mr. Kalousek proposes some kind of tax bill for Babiš, then let him do it. I'm happy to show you everything. And I think it's going to be huge sums that I paid in this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u134	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Komárek and will be prepared with Mrs Němcová's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u135	Thank you, Mr President. A colleague of Kalousek here said, I've known him for 25 years. He's lying and stealing. I think he's been talking about a person he's known for over 50 years, that's what he's been talking about since he's come to his senses. [[Protests in the hall from the right.]] It's not a personal invective. That's right. That's a proven fact. The only thing Mr Kalousek has as an argument to e-book sales is that Andrej Babiš is a wealthy man. This is indeed a new reality, and Mr Kalousek wants to repeat it until the nation begins to envy Mr Babiš and does not want to choose him. I think it's an interesting tactic, but very ineffective. In the same way, I could say forever that Mr Kalousek is a long-standing, but failed and failed politician in the finals. Unlike Kalouskův thesis, that would be true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u136	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read two note cards. Today at 13:00, Mr Josef Novotný apologizes and today from 12:30 he apologizes to Minister Valachová for reasons of work. You mít the slovo, Mrs Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u137	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate takes us in different directions, but there has been mention from the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance of what offshore companies he owns and where. I am reading carefully today the weekly Echo, which deals with the action of one division of the Minister of Finance, not just this division, but I was intrigued by it, the security division. And it is worth mentioning in connection with those offshore companies that the company V97 was founded, which in 2011 signed a contract for the provision of consultancy services to Andrej Babiš. The list of services that the Agency will provide to Agrofert looks innocent at first sight, but interesting is the provision that V97 provides for continuous telephone and email support in the range 24 hours a day seven days a week. The contact e-mail provided in the contract is directly on Babiš. The price is not negligible. Almost half a million crowns ploughed monthly. There is a delicacy about financing the V97. On the same day as Andrej Babiš, this group entered into a consultancy agreement with a Cypriot company called Rocksand Limited, this time to the sum of CZK 300,000, i.e. the same amount as Agrofert. The purpose of the second contract is to advise on business opportunities in the territory of the Russian Federation. So who's got the offshore firm in Cyprus? asks the author. And I'd like to ask too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u138	Thank you, Madame. Another one with a point of fact... [[This is Vice Prime Minister Babiš.]] Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you're in order. I am registering you, but first Mr Kolovratník will go with a factual remark, then President Kalousek, and then you will be given the floor with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u139	Hello. Thank you. My colleague Kalousek also took me to his mouth in quotation marks, so I cannot briefly react. Pardubice Synthesia was also mentioned. I'm MP Pardubic. Mr. Colleague, the company is one of the largest employers there, involved in the development of the region, paying taxes, paying taxes for its employees, not employing them black and black profits and charging them as a standard. So I don't know why you're taking this company into your mouth, too. So I'm not an expert in finance like you, but in common sense, I'm thinking, if a company transfers part of its profits somewhere else - mother, holding - then it will pay corporate tax. And if a holding company pays its owner a profit, it will pay the tax on the income of a natural person. I don't know where the money should go. But maybe you can explain it better. But I will ask you not to explain it to me today, through Mr President. And friends, let me remind you, EET. Electronic sales log. That's what we're talking about. That's the subject. As President Stanjura discussed, he made arguments, counterarguments, concerns, etc. I think that's a matter of fact. But please, Prime Minister Kalousek, let's talk about the subject and the subject. [[President: Through me.]] Through Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u140	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Kalousek and then Vice Prime Minister Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u141	Thank you. Through the President, you have cheered me up, Mr Pre-Speaker, because you have asked me about three questions. You said, "But don't answer me, I don't want to hear the truth. Well, the truth is very simple. We're talking more tax collection here, which should lead to electronic sales records, and we're trying to explain to you that a very expensive project is aimed at the weakest to divert attention from the strongest who don't pay. And that's part of the Synthesia of Pardubice. And we can say that at second reading. But in any case, your boss, the finance minister, who gives himself funding as an entrepreneur who wants these subsidies, has far more than his tax obligations. The Agrofert Group is undoubtedly collecting much more public budget subsidies than it is making money into those public budgets. Every entrepreneur, if you offer him: you don't have to pay the crown in taxes, and on the contrary you get CZK 50,000 a month for running the pub here, so he'll be happy. He'd be as happy as Minister Babiš, because he's in this position. He gets more from taxpayers than he gives them. And I'm always able to prove that, calculate, do that. And this guy's got the nerve that those people who work hard to make a living from morning to night call themselves the biggest cheaters we don't have money for those subsidies for him. [[speaks very strongly]] And that's what I'm talking about and why we can't deviate from the Minister's tax liability and subsidy claims. 'Cause he wants the other guys to scrape the money for himself! He doesn't care about public interest!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u142	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš and, after that, Mr. Jandák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I would simply say through the President Mrs Němcová: Please do not read the anti-Babiš server. That's where they keep writing some nonsense. I don't know the company, the company doesn't belong to me, it doesn't belong to Agroferta. And the server, it's the former employees of the Lidové noviny who went to your congresses to prepare you for speeches, etc. So don't read it, really, it's nonsense. And the subsidies. My company receives exactly the same subsidies as any Czech farmer. Per hectare and from the European Union. Everything's traceable. And I'm sure he's doing a lot more than he's getting. So anybody can track it down. And I would really like us to go back to the sales log, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u144	Thank you. Now, with Mr Jandák's point of fact and after that, with Mrs Němcová's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a little confused because I don't understand. Is Mirek Kalousek here - through the President? Mirek Kalousek, please, Minister Drábek was from Babiš? Isn't it? I mean, people come to my office with their hands, legs, steel spines, and no pension. I don't know, who set this up and who robbed these people? Whether it was Babiš or if it was Drábek from you! I've had enough of this bullshit!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u146	Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Němcová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u147	Thank you for the floor, it will be very brief. I just want to ask the finance minister not to recommend what I have or not to read. I beg you to leave this to my own consideration. I myself am able to judge which information I want, or do not want to receive and what I want, or do not want to derive. There's no way your advice's helping me. They're about as useful as the ones you give to the Czech tradesmen: Well, if the registration cash register causes you trouble and you go bankrupt, you're gonna go bankrupt. That kind of advice you give to businessmen, you give to me. And I don't want them. I hope that Czech tradesmen will not want them and that we will prevent you from destroying their lives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u148	Thank you. Now, therefore, with priority rights, because there is no factual point, Minister Dienstbier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u149	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will try to get back to discussing the bill itself. I would like to respond to Mr Plíšek's speech, which was said here in the previous debate and which concerned the position of the Legislative Council of the Government. The interpretation was, when I said it mildly, somewhat manipulative, with the statement that, according to the Government's Legislative Council, the bill was contrary to European law. I would like to stress that both the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government itself and the opinion of the compatibility department, which is set up precisely to ensure that our law is compatible with European Union law, and the two opinions explicitly state that the law does not implement European Union law and that it is compatible with European Union law. The doubt mentioned in the Government's Legislative Council's opinion with regard to the support of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs concerns whether the accompanying measures are sufficient to ensure that the burden on this group of entrepreneurs is not excessive. So it is more a question of implementation than a question of the compatibility of the law itself with the law of the European Union. So I would ask very much that the debate be conducted correctly and that it does not interpret and abuse the Government's Legislative Council's position in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u150	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Zuzana Šánová is reporting with a point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u151	Hello again, present. I would like to ask Mr Kalousek by your means, since he is now in favour of those small businessmen who are working so hard, they must work hard to make a living, why in 2008, when tax reform was carried out for his ministering, and these small businessmen had to - or have ceased to recognise the payment of social and health benefits. Today, this amount makes less than 4,000 per month at minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u152	Thank you and we will now go through a proper debate. The first is Mrs Lorencová, and then Mr Benda will be prepared. So, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u153	Mr President, colleagues, I will probably have a bit of a problem going back to the ground on my own after the heated debate that we just witnessed. But I hope I can still do it. All this time, we are listening to arguments about how tragic the introduction of electronic sales records on the local market will have tragic effects. Most arguments concern the liquidation of businessmen, small companies and so on. I would like to pause on what the current and previous situation has been that way for many years. I don't want to go back to the time of the transfer of the multimillion-dollar amounts in plastic bags. I guess we all still remember her. I don't think I need to tell anyone about where the millions came from in the plastic bags. There was a common talk at the time about the need to finance emerging political parties. But basically, it's clear that few knew where the money came from. There was talk at the time, and it is actually still unclear as it was, there was also talk of financing the crime when I simplify it. A little later, it seemed that some kind of overview of the movements of finished money in the market would bring register cash registers. There has also been a similar resistance to their existence, as we are witnessing today against the introduction of electronic sales records. It was literally an obsession with which the right sought not to be introduced. Then we did it. Even about half a year later, after the law was passed, it was cancelled six months later, and the registers were canceled. Some might argue that there are a number of companies that come into contact with cash that still use the register cash registers and work for them. The customer will come, receive the receipt, on which is stated what he bought, there is a date, there are some particulars that the receipts contain. So what's the point of some news like EET, huh? According to some colleagues, EET will be unnecessarily expensive and will in no way bring the expected effect. Yes, there really are registers in some companies. So we can call them registration. They have only one purpose, though, to keep an eye on the company's owners, to control the movement of his goods and finances that flow through his employees' hands, so that his employees don't steal from him. And that's the end of his interest in tracking the cash flow. It's a whole different chapter for the Financial Authority to know about this. Just this is the function of registering cash registers, as our predecessors imagined in this House, as the registers worked for a short period of time, and then certainly not at all. The tax returns will not go through the data from these registers at all. No one can force the owner of the company to do that. For many years, there has been talk of an environment where an entrepreneur did not withdraw from actual tax sales. I am not afraid of creating enemies among businessmen, because those who are interested in transparent business will certainly be rooting for the introduction of electronic sales records. [[13.10 hours]] I'll take a short tour. I was approached by an employee of a big company, a big security agency. It was at a time when almost all of my reports broadcast by the Czech Television dealt with huge tax evasion. If we're talking billions here as big tax evasions, then my reports were really about billions of tax evasions. That was when I was filming something at the Treasury Department, and for the first time in my life, I met something that shocked me, and I'm actually not able to deal with it to this day. That's when I first heard it was legal tax evasion. You hear me well: legal tax evasion! Tax evasion treated by law. The cops could've run their legs. Hundreds of cops who knew there was some filth going on, they could get out, they could document, they could try harder. In the end, they came across the fact that it was a legal tax evasion. Legal business. That is how our laws have worked, and some have been doing so, basically, to this day. But let's go back to the person who alerted me to this practice who actually visited me with the intention of doing a story about how it goes, how he goes to the window to pick up some of his wages in cash. So I went there. He led me to about the tenth or eleventh floor of a high-rise Ostrava building, where I saw a long front in a long corridor, everyone had their ID in their hands or some kind of ID. And there I saw the window only slightly open, behind him the hands that counted the money, and always the one who came to the window grabbed it, counted it, showed his ID, and left with that cash. I asked what kind of weird way to pay off the guy who took me there. He explained to me that not only he, but hundreds, maybe thousands of people in this republic receive a substantial portion of their salaries. They only have a minimum wage coming into their bank account. Only applicable taxes are paid on this salary. Of course, everything else that gets cash is enough to consume for their families and they don't care if pension, social and similar fees are paid. A potential army of extremely poor pensioners is what awaits us in the future. No one's noticed that yet, but it's really a very big danger. Those people are calculated a pension from the minimum wage! Nobody wants to see it yet. The electronic record-keeping of sales may at least capture this part and may become some kind of tool to make it work normally. When I drew attention to the fact of the situation, the supervisory authority visited the security agency concerned, and the result of the visit to the control body was that the person was immediately fired - for an hour. Then when I was more interested in the area, I found that it works almost everywhere where the money was in motion. Money without records controlled by the financial administration. Vague arguments about spying, financial demands with the introduction of EET have the only motivation - to maintain status quo. I guess we can only imagine the reason for that. It's definitely not a pure reason. I don't doubt it! Therefore, I have already mentioned the interest in the inconspicuous situation. However, I have not yet mentioned the impact of the current system of non-controllability of sales, i.e. cash movements and taxes, on morale in our country. We have accepted this fact, the fact that it works this way, as a standard. I'm scared of it! I don't know how it feels for the rest of you, but the fact that we actually tolerate here, and we're even defending the situation that I've described and which my previous speakers actually describe, that can't really leave me cold. I've recorded a few quotations from history starting with Friedman through Sofokl and some others, and I'm also willing to come up with a little bit to the mill. And I would recommend that some colleagues, who I hear very often speaking here, look at the history of the Punic Wars. When it was destroyed in the first war of Carthage, Senator Cato Jr., a Roman senator, came to see what Carthage looked like. He thought he'd find it in the wreckage, burned, in the clouds of smoke and dust. Instead, 25 years of destruction of Carthage found a city flourishing, streets full of merchants, just a city that returned to life. Ever since he returned to Rome, every speech in the Senate has ended with a statement: After all, I believe that Carthage must be destroyed. Perhaps some of my previous speakers might consider what Cato was going to say. The Říman were afraid that the city of Carthage was beginning to flourish. I believe that this will succeed in our country, too, so that we can get back into the bloom, so that we can be satisfied with how it thrives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u154	Thank you, Madame. And now I'm recording two factual points. First Mr Plíšek, followed by Mr Novotný. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u155	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I must respond to the speech of Minister Dientsbier, who said that I was somehow manipulating the position of the Government Legislative Council. So I take the liberty again, because I was just quoting this opinion, so I'm going to quote it again. Please take a picture and an opinion of your own. I quote the Government's Legislative Council's opinion on this bill. "In view of the above and following the subsequent discussion of the bill, the Legislative Council of the Government continues to have significant doubts as to whether the introduction - not the implementation, as you said, Minister Dienstbier, through the President - or "whether the introduction of sales records and related obligations is in line with the principles enshrined in the European Union's legal acts mentioned in Part Two of this Opinion, namely the policy of supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and whether the measures accompanying its introduction, which should minimise the associated administrative burden on entrepreneurs, are sufficient." This means that the Government's Legislative Council has significant doubts about the very introduction of the obligation to record sales. And that is not all, in terms of discrimination and the various exceptions introduced by this bill, the Government's Legislative Council further states "in the light of the above and of the discussion on this subject, the Government Legislative Council considers that the proposed legislation should contain as few exceptions as possible to fully exclude the obligation to register sales, indeed in justified cases, and recommends narrowing these exceptions in paragraph 12.' Unfortunately, that did not happen. So much for the exact citation of this government's legislative council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u156	Thank you and I will now request Mr Novotný's factual comment, and I note with the Prime Minister's priority right, then to the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to briefly respond to Mrs. Lorencová's performance. I can imagine that her description of that time can be quite precise in many aspects, a time that concerns even large tax evasion. I just want to remind you that, as of that time, exactly those flights include the fact that the embryo of the then empire of today's finance minister, when someone was dealing with his own structure, was written on some mailbox in Switzerland. The problem is that this guy, who was in this business at this time, wants to treat us today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u158	Thank you, and with priority rights, Minister Dienstbier is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u159	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. We can, of course, read here from the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, as Mr Plíšek has now done, the quote was accurate. I would just point out that it ends precisely by doubting whether the measures accompanying its introduction, which should minimise the associated administrative burden on entrepreneurs, are sufficient. That's exactly what I'm talking about here. That it is not a problem in the very introduction of this principle, but in what measures will accompany it to minimise the burden on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And I quote from another part of the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government that we read in the context: The draft law does not implement EU law in the Czech Republic and the proposal does not conflict with EU law. So many quotes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u160	Thank you. We will now proceed to a proper debate. I will now give the floor to Mr Benda and Mr Novotný will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u161	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr Finance Minister, ladies and gentlemen. A lot has already been said before the man's turn, and I have come forward quite soon, but with factual remarks it is very diluted, so only a few more partial remarks, which will lead me to ask that this bill be discussed in addition to the designated committee, even the constitutionally legal committee. A note first to what Mrs Lorencová said, which I listened to. EET doesn't deal with anything she's talking about in any way. There's no way he's dealing with wages. I really didn't notice that. And maybe the only thing he could be dealing with, but it's not there yet, I suppose somebody might suggest that the same regime should be registered with a tip, or a Trinkgeld, which is not yet in the register, and that's probably the only contribution to the salary that doesn't really go through the hands of the finance minister and creates the big problem that someone is earning a little bit more, and it's not taxed enough. I just don't know if Mrs Lorencová's performance was going to this. It couldn't have been any other way. The second point, I also think it has gone away many times today, but unlike us sitting here, I have several friends who have spent some time in Croatia in recent weeks. Everyone assures me there are no receipts issued anywhere. If we really think that in Croatia, when you're a tourist, you get receipts, no way! I don't know how to communicate with their tax office, I would be too bold to say this, but apart from the pumps, where they issue you a receipt in the Czech Republic as well as the larger chains, where they also have electronic cash registers in the Czech Republic and issue you a receipt very commonly, there is no such thing running anywhere, and even according to the testimony of the people who are there, it is not even issued to the local Chorvat. The only ones to whom the receipts are issued are the unknown Chorvat, because they are potential controllers who could walk and snitch, and so they are the ones who issue the receipts. But no one Chorvat them to foreigners, and no one gives them to local Croats. So just to be clear, how it works so brilliantly, and then, of course, the result is that the profit of it is zero zero. But I wanted to point out and partly follow up on what Mr Plíšek here said and the debate he has with Minister Dienstbier on the constitutional aspect of the matter, except whether it is all right or not. I consider it constitutionally unrealistic and impossible for this bill to bring such responsibilities and actually say: the government can remove any of these obligations. I just think that's an unsustainable principle. Taxes and charges must only be levied on the basis of the law and the government cannot be authorised in my opinion, and therefore I ask that this bill also be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, it cannot be authorised to authorise any taxpayer, any taxpayer's circle in Section 10 of Revenue in a simplified regime: In a simplified regime, sales may also be registered, whose registration in a normal manner would make it impossible or significantly difficult to carry out a smooth and economic activity from which these sales flow. These sales are determined by the Government's regulation. - So either the government has to say which ones they are, but we can't allow ourselves to establish any obligation by law and at the same time say, at any time under the law, "it would make it impossible or fundamentally difficult for the government to carry out a smooth and economical activity." The same is, of course, in transitional provisions, which, in my view, are still completely confused, and I do not know who wrote them, but because some are temporarily excluded sales and in paragraph 1. 4 Paragraph 37 is said at once that the government can provide for a regulation that some sales are not temporarily registered sales from the date of entry into force of this law - so it can return them back there? Or can he remove them forever, or can he remove them for just a moment? However, I think this is a huge problem, especially if Section 12 tries to define sales excluded from sales records, and here it does some accounting, so say: but apart from all these sales, the government can still do what it wants with them, and if they agree with this association of entrepreneurs, it can say that they do not belong to the records. That is what I think is constitutionally unsustainable and that it would be a good idea for the Constitutional Legal Committee to discuss this. In sales temporarily excluded or excluded from sales records in Section 12 - I don't know who read it properly, but there you have, for example, in point 3 letters. (h) - from a minor secondary business activity of publicly beneficial taxpayers. In my opinion, at that point most of the shops in the Czech Republic will become associated with some community-friendly taxpayer, and it is not that complicated, and suddenly it will not fall into the sales log. The same shop selling trinkets, or if you want souvenirs or some rareness, if I have it written on my person, then it has such obligations, and the same business that will be next to some foundation, generally beneficial societies, churches, perhaps even political parties, if I had thought about it until the end, suddenly will not have these obligations. It seems to me that it is also very difficult to realize and that we need to think about it, even if we allow the overall principle, so that the principle must not have exceptions that directly urge to circumvent and abuse it, if we assume that more taxes are to be collected by it, which I, frankly, do not fully expect. Another thing I wanted to mention and for which I think it would be good for the bill to be dealt with not only by the competitors, but also by the lawyers, are administrative offences. When you read the administrative offences, a natural person commits an offence by seriously deliberately making it difficult or frustrating the record of sales. A fine of up to half a million may be imposed for this offence. [[13.30 hours]] I don't know exactly what kind of misdemeanor is. Is he an employee? Perhaps so, it should apply only to an employee who does not exceptionally issue a receipt or does not make an entry. Then the $500,000 fine seems pretty cruel to me. But let's think about it, but I'm far from sure that that person can't be that poor buyer who just doesn't ask for the receipt, or what they're gonna do to you at every pump today, they're gonna say, "do you need a tax receipt?"I'm gonna say, "I don't need a tax receipt, I don't have anyone to pay for it, I really don't need a tax receipt, don't print it for me." If I take the same step after the EET at some place, whether I buy a sausage, a sausage, or an ice cream, and say, "Don't print it for me," did I happen to thwart the sales log? Aren't I under a $500,000 fine? Because it's only about individuals, not businessmen. It's only about the natural persons. I think that's another thing that we should at least talk about, what it meant, and if the penalty of half a million in this case is even meaningful and makes sense. Employees as an employer can take his four average monthly salaries if he does something to you, and you'll be lucky if you succeed. The state wants to take half a million for someone not issuing one receipt, virtually. to be able to do up to half a million. But the scope is incredibly large from the legal standpoint. We don't do it in the law. Usually there are minor violations that have some range, but the range of zero to half a million is really unprecedented, and I find that abnormal. As well as administrative offences of legal and entrepreneurial physical persons, including that final Section 31 Closure of the establishment and suspension of the performance of the activity, which also concerns the issuance of receipts. Well, frankly - and I feel that this is the case in Croatia, and I fear that they will happen very quickly and very often in the Czech Republic - this is the guide to abolishing their competition. If I have a pub across the street, there's gonna be someone in the pub I want to close, so I'm gonna send her a mechanic, I'm gonna recommend him a workman who won't issue bills for 14 days. It will be the responsibility of the worker, of course, but at the same time, there is an administrative offense against legal persons who are responsible for their employees. That pub's gonna be closed down by the IRS. If you've spoken in addition to the very small and completely unhappy ones who are actually writing when you come to that pub in the village, and now you've got three bars and an evening spending of 100 crowns, and I'm curious about how the three commas and the evening spending of 100 crowns are going to make electronic records of sales, so if there's something that the restaurant operators are really worried about, it's the responsibility for their employees, which can lead to the closure of the establishment, where they already have in many cases - and Prague is a huge problem, because the turnover of employees here is quite significant, especially in the hospitality and in those services - they have a huge problem to keep these people from stealing from them. The moment one of them causes such a problem towards the state, they take nothing on it, but the state threatens them: we can shut you down! Again, in my opinion, a problem that needs to be thought and guessed on the legal side as far as I can ask a legal or entrepreneurial person to bear responsibility for his employees. What I found quite spicy, but perhaps one of the translators knows, although I do not know if the Minister of Finance, and what I really liked, is § 31 The closure of the establishment and the suspension of the activity, where the exception is "a measure according to paragraph 3. 1 may not prevent the exercise of public authority'. Do you have any idea what kind of exercise of public authority could be prevented from closing down an establishment and suspending its activities? Well, to me, frankly, but maybe I'm just stupid, the only thing that came up is the bailiffs. They exercise public power, they're businessmen. If the exception goes to the bailiffs, it's a very specific exception, and I wonder how it got there. He may be heading for something else, but the explanatory note doesn't say a single word about it. Another thing that would quite logically attack a person is the post office, although it does not have a completely clean public power, but it is in the general exception, so it does not apply to it in general. Otherwise, I don't know how there could be a restriction on the exercise of public authority. I wonder if there are any villages where they've sold the town hall and they're only in the pub. But other than that, I don't understand. That's why I'm pointing out at least some of the most fundamental legal and logical problems when I forget the overall criticism that I think my previous speakers have mastered. One more thing I wanted to mention and this is the temporary exclusion of sales, § 37 para. 3: "Until the proceeds of the taxpayer to be registered do not exceed 2 million in the immediately preceding tax period of income tax. At the same time CZK 20 per cent of its sales to be registered and sales which are not temporarily registered sales are not recorded by any of the taxpayer's sales." For me, it is such an incomprehensible wording that I am surprised that they have not introduced at least some legislative abbreviation, because I do not know which one of you, after reading this paragraph, understands what it says. I'm very little. However, it seems to me that it is said that if anyone has only 20 percent of their turnover and the rest has somewhere else and up to 2 million, it is not a registered sale. There's a problem-free guide to how to start bypassing it again. But as a total counter, I'm going to have something that's going to generate me 80 percent of my sales, especially those big conglomerates can do it without any problems, and if I'm talking about 2 million, that's not a very small amount, we already know that there are some groups that go around paying VAT in the way that they sell the company, virtually. they're running around from one to the other, and they're avoiding it completely legally because they don't have a deal to a million or two, so here I'm thinking of another guide on how to do it in the future. I don't know if I want to do this, but I would really like to have this bill ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee, too, because I think it has not only budget problems but also constitutionally-legal problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am registering your proposal and we will vote on it at the right time. Now, please, to the microphone with a factual remark from the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u163	Thank you. I won't need them, Madam Vice-President. I'm just a colleague of Bend's - in Croatia, I've seen a note from an ice cream man on the beach, a small, big restaurant - it's not true what you're saying here. They really put them all over the place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u164	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Plzák in his own way. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u165	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm also talking to my colleague Benda. I'm here to see my colleague, Mrs Lorencová, because she's not here, and I'm going to explain what she mentioned in her speech and what it is about electronic payroll records. She was talking about the fact that the employer keeps his employees at a minimum wage and puts the money on the side, black or black. Where's he getting them? Of course, he's taking them out of those unconfessed sales. If he has to admit his sales through this system, of course this system will no longer allow this practice, then, of course, he has these options. The revenue side of his budget goes up, he can, of course, pay taxes, which nobody wants, he can invest in movable and immovable property, or he can raise his employees' wages. That's what Mrs. Lorencová meant when she talked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u166	Thank you. And now, please, with Mr Novotný's proper application. Mr Karamazov will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u167	Have a nice afternoon again. I'm not gonna start with what I was gonna say. I tried in the past days from all my friends who are in Croatia at this time, and the last one was a week ago at Hvar, to find out how it works. This, therefore, failed to obtain the receipt in the vast majority of attempts. I don't know if this has anything to do with our debate today that maybe he was there in a zone where there's an Internet problem. Croatia is coming back here today in almost every performance. It is for us the country where for years statistically most of our tourists go on vacation for such a rest period, which includes cold, chilled cocktails. In the period when they drink at the beaches of Cuba Libre, Mojito or Tequila Sunrise, we are also preparing an interesting cocktail in the Chamber of Deputies for the Czech public. I will only remind you of the electronic record of sales, the criminality of tax offences at the stage of preparation, the proof of the origin of property. Yesterday we discussed and demonstrated that the wiretap system that works here doesn't have control mechanisms. We are strengthening the powers of the Secret Service. My colleague Gabal here was just saying that we shouldn't be technologically backward. It's got two pages. Either technology will be used to enable people to make better use of their freedom, or technology, and that is the other side of technology, we will use it to control and spy on every step of the way and limit their freedom. But I want to surprise you here and, in particular, to all the government Members, I would like to recommend such a summer experience. We're all saying that Croatian inspiration is pointless, that there's a larger amount of gray economy, that the economy has different parameters. I would still like to recommend one Croatian inspiration, which was very strong for me personally in my life for the summer. I love Lordan Zafranovič's film The occupation in 26 paintings. It was created in Titov Communist Yugoslavia, and it is a film that describes one period of Croatian society's history, and it is for me the most perfect psychological analysis of how small people behave in crisis situations, how in certain systems it is very easy to inspire the lowest instincts in them, as small people who would normally not be able to apply themselves, so very often find their realization in the atmospheres and periods when time wishes for whistleblowers, when time wishes for all kinds of spies and spying. I think that if you watch this movie, you'll also understand why people - privatizers from Franjo Tudman's time, like Ivica Todorič, are very supportive of electronic sales records, because it's connected to something that has deep roots in society's history, and also how episodes that give space to small people can resonate and create support in society. I would like to call on all of us this summer to think about whether the cocktail of the laws I mentioned here is a little too much on the regulation side and whether we should start talking a little bit in a different diction and a little bit in a different tone about the real development of this society and not just about its technological control.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u168	Thank you. Mr. Karamazov's microphone, please. Mr. Fiedler will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am still hearing the praise that Minister Andrej Babiš is singing on the electronic record of sales. However, he has not yet explained why the measure introduces when the financial authorities already have enough information to intervene against the dishonestes. I do not understand measures whose costs are higher than the expected yield. This can also be the situation of register cash registers. After all, only the first year will have to pay an incredible one billion crowns so that the system can even start working. Every year, the citizens pull 450 miles out of their pockets to keep the system running. But the moral dimension is far more unacceptable to me when the Minister of Finance wants to apply the concept of collective guilt. They claim that all businessmen and businessmen are potential criminals, so they must be constantly followed by a big brother and send all the data online. For decades, I have been a university educator, so I know that many students try to cheat on tests. But I won't presume that all students are crooks, and that's why each of them will have to be watched with a special camera. I have another experience with students. I work in technical fields where many of them are starting to do business in college. They start often without capital, they just need their intelligence, their idea, their determination, and their consistency to create a business, and eventually maybe they've taken on employees. However, Mr Babiš says that the registers and electronic records of sales will ultimately concern everyone. For these young people, however, the cost of purchasing cash and accessories in the range of twenty-three thousand crowns is unbearable. Business is primarily a valuable life experience for them, although some may fail. But if they were to spend such a large amount of money at the very beginning and at the same time solve another bureaucratic burden, it would discourage them. That's the biggest mistake. As an educator, I know that it is most important to arouse interest in young people, to excite them, not to complicate unnecessary things that can be simple. It bothers me that in the proposal to introduce registration cash registers and record, the atmosphere of class struggle, when the whole group of society is being ostracized, comes into the role of criminals. At the same time, tradesmen are people who not only do the job, but mainly have to secure it. Every day they look for their customers so they can work at all. This requires tremendous courage and commitment. Rather, the government should be inspired in Western countries to facilitate entrepreneurship, not in the Balkans, where a long series of bureaucratic obstacles hinder business, leads to corruption and a pitiful state of the economy, as we see in Croatia's example. The numbers are clear. Tax collection has not improved in this country, many businessmen have ceased their activities and unemployment is around 15 percent. That's not a good example. Let us inspire ourselves in Germany. But we won't find any registers there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u170	Thank you. I ask for a microphone with a factual remark from Mr Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u171	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would just like to say that the young people mentioned here by my previous speaker know, unlike him, that the register is, for example, this and they will be able to deal with it regardless of how they educate them. That's the first thing. The second thing that concerns reason and so-called collective guilt. Let's take out traffic lights and traffic signs. After all, most drivers behave rationally and so forth. I don't know what we need these systems for. There must be order in certain matters, and tax collection is certainly one of them. So let's not talk about collective guilt, let's talk about a sensible system that everyone will be subject to. There is certainly no tax liability, just as not riding red is, unfortunately, not one of the behaviors that are governed by 100 percent of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u172	Thank you. Mr. Fiedler's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u173	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Today's debate on this subject has been very rancid, very extensive. There were a number of arguments that I would try to avoid saying what had already been said, and I didn't needlessly repeat it. However, I will not forgive myself for saying that I would certainly consider it more useful if the same time, the same effort, especially the efforts of the Ministry of Finance's staff, had this effort been devoted to finding more fundamental problems in tax evasion than the problem of the one that will affect electronic sales records, to bringing several tens of billions of sums into tax havens and other tax evasions of so-called optimizations than what will most affect small businessmen and entrepreneurs. [[13.50 hours]] I really stand by this view and I think that this time here and especially the servants of the Ministry could have used this time in a more effective way at the moment. I am also not sure that all the current opportunities available to employees of financial offices, trade offices, various inspections to control what they are are are being used. I have such a baseless, uncalculated impression that if the same number of people were to be accepted or started...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u174	I'm gonna ask my colleagues to calm down, and I know it's a long, difficult negotiation, but thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u175	Thank you, too. ... who will devote themselves to this, that if this number of people were to do so only within the existing possibilities offered by our legal system, I am convinced that the effect of increased tax collection would almost be the same, perhaps higher, I will not speculate about it, rather than in this introduction of a very complex and complicated system to which we have heard a number of reservations, comments not only from our Members, but also from various institutions. One such institution that has very serious reservations about this amendment is the Office for Personal Data Protection. For our Dawn MEP, the opinion of this office will be very important as to what his comments on the final version of the law will be, and we will stand by it accordingly. Because what was going on here was going on today's talk that the data collected is in huge data. What Mr Benda said, even though he is not here at the moment, the government itself cannot decide which groups are excluded from the scope. The Office for Personal Data Protection is making the same arguments. These are very serious things that we have reservations about. I cannot resist the impression that why this law is so pushed by the government coalition at the moment, but especially the Ministry of Finance, is because of the fact that tax collection is somehow limping. What was said here that the tax collection was better, is that the data that we had at our disposal doesn't say anything about it, especially in connection with the rising pace of the economy. After all, tax collection does not grow in the way the economy grows. And I feel, I can't help it, that this is just a way of showing it in some way that we're doing something about it. As we mentioned earlier this morning, for our Dawn MP, I am filing a motion to return this amendment for revision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u176	Just to clarify: both novels, both laws?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u177	It's a joint discussion, so both novels together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u178	Yes, thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Volný's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u179	Hello, colleagues, fellow Members, Madam President. I'll keep it to a minimum. So I have three notes here. One comment on Mr Holeček's speech, through the President. I've been running the campaign with Mr. Babiš, basically from the start. I've never heard, never, never heard, never heard, that we'd say or that he'd say they're businessmen, small businessmen and businessmen, plebs. It's a lie again. Mr. Holeček had the form of his contribution very well prepared, but the content was stupid and it was babbling. On the contrary, I think that our priorities include businessmen and small entrepreneurs. We also behave accordingly and do not increase taxes, and I feel that we are doing our best for them, and I also assume that this will be in their favour. On the other hand, Mr. Babiš is giving these entrepreneurs so much work that Mr. Holeček can't even imagine. The second thing I wanted to mention. EET isn't for businessmen, it's not about businessmen. EET is about sales of all companies in the given segment where it will be introduced. This means that it is about active access to information as this economy develops in the Czech Republic. It means, it's not about businessmen, it's for all companies that want to do business honestly. But it's also about our Asian fellow citizens. And you know that leak there is absolutely, absolutely unbelievable. And the last look of it all. This isn't just about sales. That means Mr. Fiedler was back here fencing seven percent, about how he only handled it seven percent. But let's remember that if a businessman, a businessman, a big businessman, a big company to which it will also apply conceals revenue, that is, he doesn't have legal money, pays his employees with black money and robs this state for the second time on health insurance, for the third time on social insurance, and fourthly, that these people often receive unemployment benefits because they receive black income, that is, all of this when they sum up, it's big money, that is, it's not just about sales, it's not just about businessmen, it's a law for honest entrepreneurs, for small, medium, but also the largest multinational companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u180	I thank you and please make two factual points: first Mr Fiedler, then Mr Laudát. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u181	Yes, I will respond to the words of the previous speaker. And I can please Mr. Volný that we can also agree that my opinion here is the same. Indeed, those who are absolutely not registered, who are not registered in trade offices must also be prosecuted. And here, this can be dealt with without this amendment of the law. Here, the proper civil servants could have long been affected by the fact that there are persons who have absolutely no accounting, who show absolutely nothing when the inspection comes, they have nothing, they have nothing. I received one such e-mail today, a moment ago, in this spirit, because citizens are watching what is happening in the House, interested in this here and expressing themselves. So there is absolute agreement in this, Mr Free through Madam President, on this matter. I agree with that, but I will repeat that I think that in order to be prosecuted, those who are not willing to register at all, who are not showing anything, do not necessarily need this law. To do this, for example, it was enough for the trade authorities to function more consistently. That they've got a lot on their plate, that they can't make it, that's another thing. But it was a very simple, long time ago. But once again, our idea is to target much larger amounts of tax evasion than will be affected by these very small, even dishonest traders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u182	Thank you. I will ask for a microphone with the de facto remark of Mr Laudát. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u183	Thank you. There are still some of you talking about some cultivated society. So Mr. Volný here, in other words, said, or could it be said that our citizens don't pay taxes and cheat. Did you all hear that, huh?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u184	I will now ask Mrs Kovářová for the microphone, duly signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u185	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the results of the sociological survey in support of the introduction of the electronic record of sales presented yesterday at the Ministry of Finance, which I must admit has raised a smile in me, although a little bitter. Please don't let anyone be mad at me, but this research reminds me in an incredible way of one episode from the famous British comedy series Sure, Minister, in which Sir Humphrey Appleby teaches me about the manipulative nature of public opinion research and, with the help of two sets of questions, he easily leads Bernard Woolley to completely contradictory answers on the same matter. [[14.00 hours]] In the British case, it is about introducing a conscription obligation, in our case the introduction of an electronic record of sales. But the method used by sir Humphrey and our Ministry of Finance is essentially the same. What exactly am I considering in the case of Czech research? After the opening question, which reads: "If you consider all pros and cons, would you say that the tax morale of traders, sellers of goods and services is very good, rather good, rather bad, very bad in the Czech Republic today?" The last two answers, of course, follow such tricky questions as "Do you think that the state should look for ways to obtain higher tax collections from traders and sellers in our market? Have you ever heard the term or phrase electronic sales log? Do you think that the introduction of electronic sales records will gradually contribute to increasing customer confidence in traders and service providers? You think..." [[A Member of the Laudat outside the microphone draws attention to the absence of members of the government.]] Madam President, I ask for an interruption, for we have no minister, no member of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u186	Yes, I'm forced to interrupt negotiations until the Minister's presence. I'm guessing five minutes, so if you agree to this, we'll continue at 14.06. If one of the ministers is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u187	It's 2:06 p.m., and we're going to continue the adjourned negotiations. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Defence are present here, so we have done this to satisfy the Rules of Procedure. To the microphone, please, Mrs Kovářová, who interrupted her speech so that she could continue. And before I let her go, I'm gonna ask all my colleagues to keep their voices down. Thank you. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, on the way to the counter, I have learned that I am awkward, so I apologise with this, but unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure are rules of procedure and should be followed. For those who have not been present here at the beginning of my interview, let me just remind you that I would like to comment on the results of the sociological survey in support of the introduction of electronic sales records presented yesterday at the Ministry of Finance. I compared the questions asked to an episode from the famous British comedy series Sure, Minister. I will repeat exactly what I am considering in the case of Czech research. After the opening question, which reads: "If you consider all pros and cons, would you say that the tax morale of traders, service vendors and goods in the Czech Republic today is very good, rather good, rather bad, very bad? And to which the last two answers, of course, are chosen, are such sneaky questions as: "Should the state be looking for ways to obtain higher tax collections from traders and sellers on our market? Have you ever heard the term or phrase electronic sales log? Do you think that the introduction of electronic sales records will gradually contribute to increasing customer confidence in traders and service providers? Do you think that the introduction of electronic sales records will gradually contribute to improving tax collection from traders and service providers?" The construction and order of these questions simply does not allow them to respond otherwise than positively, precisely as the person who prepared the survey wanted. Dear Minister, you are undoubtedly Sir Humphrey's proficient pupil, but in your interest, I advise you - please do not hide behind the public voice based on such sluggish surveys. Defend your proposal using more solid arguments. On behalf of not only all fans of the series Sure, Minister, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u189	Now, please, with a factual remark, Mr Gabal. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u190	Madam President, colleagues, I do not know what the previous speaker of professions is, I have been running an analytical firm working with opinion polls for 23 years after all, I have had an academic career. I'm saying that it's a standard hundred questions from a firm that has credibility especially in the business and that doesn't ruin that name for some stupid project for a few tens of thousands. It's a standard investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u191	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with Mr Šarapatka's proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u192	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly not the unconditional supporter of this draft. I'm also not gonna like it if there's a situation like in Italy that we're gonna have to take some papers at the pharmacy, etc. Yet I am surprised by the many critics who have spoken before me here, on the one hand, that they are talking about running with taxes being criminal, saying that 7 percent of the grey economy is running in this way, and, on the other hand, it is resisting this kind of control. At the same time, I am surprised that the same people who criticize today and support businessmen in this republic have kept them under their throat for many years. But I have a very personal experience. I met a friend of mine who runs a guest house and restaurant in Orlicky Mountains about 14 days ago. He said to me, "What are you and Babiš doing back in Prague?" I mean, the cash registers, the registrations, or the electronic records, they're nonsense. I told him, "Well, you already have the cash register, you're keeping an eye on your employees. And he says, "Yeah, but I'm gonna start paying taxes or something!" So for this reason, I think the evidence is in place. I think taxes should be paid anyway. The question is, however, how much. And here I would like to follow up on the words of my colleague Beznoska, who said that the middle class could be liquidated. I think that every state should not only protect its class of businessmen and small entrepreneurs but pamper itself. They are the ones who usually make up most of the values in the country, not running abroad as big investors, but spending it at home. And they also create a large majority of jobs. It forms a middle layer that is at the heart of every nation, and when we suffocate it with taxes, it disappears and becomes a nation with a few dozen big businessmen and meat proletariat. And I don't think we want that. I am therefore in favour of introducing registration cash registers so that taxes must be paid by all, so that it does not happen that a handy innkeeper with taxes will run away and a stupid innkeeper will simply pay them. Then there will be no fair competition. But at the same time, I believe that taxes should be such as to allow those tradesmen, the middle class, to make a happy life without the need to be robbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u193	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Kalousek, in fact. Please, Member, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u194	Hello. Excuse me, I want to protest. Mr Šarapatka here has shown almost as a systemic typical example that his businessman friend steals and does not pay taxes. I'm not questioning it, it's possible. But this is, please, a nice friend of Mr Šarapatka, his to his, an exception. I don't think that's what businessmen do. So if a friend of Mr Šarapatka's is stealing as well as a former diplomat Šarapatka in Algiers, those are exceptions to the system. But within the system, it's supposed to include the same access to everyone, that is, if electronic sales records are to apply to someone, then to everyone or nobody. And you guys are always saying that it's only supposed to apply to the sector that's interested in Babiš, and you're calling it the settlement of the business environment. No! It's a distortion of the business environment, and it's just as crooked as Šarapatka!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u195	I'd like a microphone with Mr. Šarapatka's actual office. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u196	Thank you for the floor. And by your means, Madam President: Mr Kalousek, I would leave it on my head if I were you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u197	I now request a microphone with a proper application from Mr Černoch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u198	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President. I think there's been a lot said here. Of course, I confess, I'm not an economist, but I think it's data that's available to everyone, and it's things that everyone can read. Of course, taxes are to be collected, it's right when they're collected, it's right when people are honest, but on the other hand, at this point, we want to heal on people, on certain parts of people. And the part that's supposed to pay the taxes, too, and they're big businessmen, so no one's stepping on these people. I don't think it's right. In the information of the Ministry of Finance it is claimed that this system will select 12,5 billion. CZK more, 5.5 billion. To VAT, 2 billion. corporate tax and 5 billion. to income tax on natural persons. On the State's cost side, 370 miles are declared. for introduction, 170 miles. for annual IT system management, another 70 billion. per year for the control component, and finally 60 million. PR and call center. The costs for the tradesmen themselves are virtually not seriously calculated and not seriously calculated. The Ministry of Finance estimates them at CZK 5,000 per hardware, does not know the price of the software and will probably determine it as it wishes. It's already bizarre that the state creates a system, and then gets paid by the tradesmen. However, operators can already wash their hands because their sales estimates associated with the implementation of the system amount to about 120 million. Crowns a month. Yes, 120 million. Of course, this amount will be paid by the traders concerned. It is approximately CZK 400 per month for the subject. It is expected that there are about 600,000 tradesmen, i.e. affected entities. As the Ministry of Finance has done, we will probably not know about these figures, which have been issued as likely. However, it is already certain that these are very optimistic figures, and I think they are misleading and that they are lying. What is another essential part - these are penalties that are not yet spoken of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u199	My colleague, I am so sorry, but the noise level is really rising. I know we're going without a break. I ask those who have something to say to each other to do so in the lobby. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u200	Thank you. The bill states that anyone who does not send on time, i.e. online, payment data or does not issue a receipt approved by the system, can receive a fine of up to half a million crowns from the customs administration. It can be closed at the same time for up to two years or even suspended all business activities for up to two years. The trader concerned may lodge a complaint against this, where the whole matter will be examined, but in such a case the penalty will not have suspensive effect. In other words, customs can deliberately destroy any business at any time and throw it immediately into a half-million-dollar debt, without evidence, just so, even an anonymous report will suffice, there will be no need for proof. It is an unprecedented authority of an office which I think does not belong in a democratic society. Again, I think taxes should be paid, we all think that for Dawn. Taxes are supposed to be paid. But driving around a certain part of people, entrepreneurs, seems unfair to us, because the big money, the really big money, is running away in completely different spheres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u201	I thank you, now please, with the de facto Mr. Volný, and then... aha, Mr. Volný cancels his application. I will therefore now ask Mr Stanjura to be the next registered member. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u202	Thank you for the floor. I am just formally, because we have a merged debate so that we don't forget. I formally propose rejecting House press 514 at first reading. I am not sure if it was 514, so I suggest in the 514 that when the debate is over, the debate will end with both the press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u203	Yes, thank you, I'm registering this proposal. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. This is not the case, I am ending the merged debate on these points and I am asking whether there is interest... With priority rights, Mr Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u204	Thank you for the floor. Madam and gentlemen, my Lord, Madam President, I have waited for the end of the merged debate to introduce the Chamber of Deputies with the position of the KSČM club on the proposals that have fallen here. Before I do that, I must say that there was a time when, after all, there was a more substantive discussion about the issues that we are talking about, but I perceive that there is a political struggle on fire and that we are here in this battlefield for the political struggle. However, the personal plane that occasionally appeared or was used here does not suit me very well. The KSČM has long been known to support every possibility, every tool to limit the grey economy, we support everything that leads to it succeeding more purely, transparently, I do not say more transparently, the word seems almost compromised, but more transparently, and it is the same. The KSČM as a leftist party is supposed to defend public resources, defend their proper implementation and defend their proper use for the benefit of the citizens of this country as a primary point in this area. That is why I want to say that the proposal for electronic recordkeeping of sales seems first and foremost as one of the possibilities for achieving these objectives. However, as presented and also from the discussion it was known in places where it was factual, e.g. When Mr. Koníček spoke with an explanation of what else the receipt should contain according to laws other than this law to comply with the laws of the Czech Republic. We have other comments that would definitely be made before this law sees the light of day, so that it actually fulfils the purpose that is advertised, that this proposal is proposed for it, so that the costs of putting into service, the costs of the administration, the start of the running at all, are clarified in order to completely exclude the possibility of circumvention of the system. We know that the Czech man can handle almost anything, so that at least the handling of the peeks almost everything is excluded. It is necessary to reach a more concrete form and more concrete operation, as the system will operate under the given capacity of the system at times of greater load, so that it is not more a burden than to help make the operation smooth in all circumstances, even in the case of various attacks atp. And, after all, how it will be absolutely undoubtedly ensured that the possibility of misuse of the information contained in this system is excluded by anyone. Well, after all, we're going to have to deal with the question of excluding the negative effects that we've been talking about here. Negative effects on businessmen and small entrepreneurs following the cessation of business activities and the burdening of the social network or social system afterwards. Although these comments, which we have on the matter and which we have not burdened and did not want to prolong the endless debate, although these comments are fundamental and very serious from our point of view, we would be bad politicians and we would be poorly honoured by our parliamentary promise if we did not give a chance at the moment to be dealt with in the second reading. Therefore, the KSČM parliamentary club will not support the proposal to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u205	I thank you, and now please, with Mr Kalousek's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u206	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, all the factual arguments against this law, all the factual arguments why this is not a settlement... Let them talk, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u207	I'll ask my colleagues to calm down, repeat, if you have anything to say to each other, do so in the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u208	All the factual arguments why this is not a settlement of the business environment, but, on the contrary, another distortion of the business environment, have already been made. There's only one thing I'm about to conclude. Many of us have put forward a motion for rejection, I do not think it will be accepted. I believe that the law will go into second reading, and I would be an expert in the bureaucratic mood...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u209	I, if you don't mind, Mr. Ambassador, will ask the left side in particular, because there is really a lot of noise coming from you to keep your voice down and not disturb our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u210	Well, that's nice again. Some of the top representatives of the YES movement can whisper loudly again. At least you're talking out loud. As an expert in the official mood, I can imagine that, after passing the law to second reading, some officials, or perhaps the chief representative of the Ministry of Finance, will think that the law is already in the pocket and that it is possible without risk to spend the budgetary resources for its implementation. I would like to say clearly here, and I say this to keep it on the record that this is not the case, that all the guidelines on the reimbursement of budgetary resources for this project, including its promotion, at the moment are out of the law, because they do not have support in the approved law. And I want to warn the Treasury that this law will never be passed, i.e. Anyone who gives orders to cash in those funds or funds, does so knowing that he's taking risks. Because if the law is not passed - and we are telling you that it will not be approved - it will logically be in conflict with the unauthorized treatment of budgetary resources, because it will not have support for it in the law. In two or three years' time, so that we don't argue, or two in three years' time, so that the prosecutors don't have to argue with you, I'm now making it quite clear that you have legitimate expectations that this law will not be passed, i.e. You have reason to believe that there will never be any support in the law, and if you decide to issue one single crown, you are doing so with the risk that I am now pointing you out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u211	Thank you and we are now getting to the final words. I ask the plaintiff, he wants to speak with the final word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the part of the debate that was constructive. A small part. I'd say the main lines of the electronic sales log design. The main idea is the same conditions for all. Fair play. Market settlement. Millions of people pay taxes in this country. Millions. Staff. Every month. And no one asks them, "Do you want to pay the tax?" No. They're gonna take it off their payroll. And there's a lot of honest businessmen and businessmen. They pay taxes, too. And the dishonestes parasite. And now the law should affect them because they live at the expense of all of us. Of course, we want to straighten out the terms, but there should also be some taxes coming out of it. But that's not the priority intention of the law. Of course, we need money on motorways, health, education, social benefits, and we want to reduce the debt of the state. And that's what we do. And that's not a law against tradesmen. That's a lie. Everyone who has sales, it's gonna be about them. Even the big chains, the big hotels. There's no difference. Here, the opposition is trying to make a statement that it's something against businessmen. Not at all. Honest businessmen welcome it. And electronic sales log is just a modern way of recording that technology has enabled. This has nothing to do with the Croatian economy. As far as I know, they also have better highways in Croatia than we do in terms of quality. And this way is state-of-the-art. And it's not about Croatia. We're presenting our model. There's a lot of differences. And sales registration systems are introduced in the European Union in Slovakia, Poland, Sweden, Italy, Belgium, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Cyprus, Germany, even for taxi drivers, Bulgaria, Romania, and now my friend, the Minister of Finance, is implementing this in Austria. So Austria will implement it. Since 2015, Belgium has been required only for hotels, restaurants and cafes. So it's not true it's about Chorvatsko. This Croatian system is state-of-the-art, it's most economical, it's most efficient, it's built on the latest technologies that are completely simple. Everyone who has, and most of our businessmen, self-employed, basically use electronic connections with banks. Today, Mr. Havlíček, head of the Small and Medium Enterprises Association, has published a survey where he communicates electronically with his bank in fact 90 percent of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I don't see what the problem is. Those are the main lines of intent. I'd go back to taxes. So many things have been said here that we're actually just focusing on this. No. We focus mainly on the biggest tax frauds of VAT. And even the Czech Republic has become the leader of the European Union. The Ministry of Finance organised a meeting of the Ministers of Finance of Germany, Austria. And for a year I worked on it and dealt with the commissioners and got support for it. EUR 180 billion per year will not be paid VAT. In the Czech Republic it is 3 billion. That's about 80 billion crowns. So we're fighting the carousels. We brought Kobra here. We're the ones here in the House who pushed through the inspection reports to help fight the carousel shops. So it's not true that this is the only tool. And we're also fixing the Financial Administration, because, of course, it's now falling off various withholding VATs from the past. We do everything at once. And this really isn't a business project. Say it again, it's a straightening-up market. It's a settlement that most of us do business honestly and we're being robbed. How many times? Four times. VAT, social, health and unemployment benefits are also included. And that's the truth. That is why most citizens in European Union countries support such systems. About the tax collection under the EET. Yes, we plan to collect 5.5 billion VAT next year, and in 2017 we plan to collect about 6 billion more on corporate and natural persons tax. That, of course, is true. I would also like to specify the costs here, because there have been incredible figures. And it's not true, because only our analyses at the restaurants say we should raise 11 billion a year. And we're picking 1.6. Therefore, we propose to reduce VAT from 21 per cent to 15. And that's 400 million. So if we did that and nothing would change, we would have picked 400 million less. But we're convinced we'll pick more. And maybe someone will come and suggest not 15 percent, but 10 percent. That's where Mr. Kalousek started. That's where he raised us from 10 to 15. And we'd like to cut taxes. Because we always said we wanted to collect taxes, not raise taxes. So the costs of the 2016 system will be around 550 million, 2017 544, 2018 533. On average, over the five years, about 2.6 billion. If I count the tax revenue, of course, it's highly effective. The BDO study that I handed over to Mr Kalousek here. It's a material that was the initial specification of the project. And it's evolved somehow, and it's no longer up to date at all points. There's a lot of things that have changed. For example, branches of Czech POINT are not used to distribute authentication data. This will be done directly at the financial offices. So there are a lot of things that aren't up to date, and that's why it would be a good idea for you to quote from the bill and from what we propose. And if, of course, there are any questions, we'll be happy to answer them. Now I'd like to see the system work. If someone doesn't have the Internet, they'll ask the Financial Office for simplified records, they'll record off-line sales and send data once a week in a single batch. There are 25 such establishments in all of Croatia and they fill out some paper forms. From the point of view of connection problems, it's basically a problem that if the problem is interrupted, the system basically stores unsent receipts into memory and then sends them additionally when the system is connected. So that's the system. I'd also like to add to the receipts. There were comments about what I was showing here. The receipts. [[It shows receipts on paper size A4, these are the same ones that were on large signs.]] Of course, we showed what it looks like today without EET working. If the EET works, only the codes will be added. Here. [[It shows the exact place on the receipt.]] So that's the whole difference. But it doesn't change anything, and I fundamentally reject that it's not true that this system is spying on someone or watching someone because the Financial Administration only cares about sales. Sales and VAT. What Mr Kalousek is handing out here, the number of beers he consumes somewhere is, of course, a lie and nonsense, because the Financial Administration, which will have a data centre in a very sharp data protection regime, will of course not know what the consumer in the restaurant has consumed or bought in the store. So that's it. [[14.40 hours]] About the taxes, please. So I remembered VAT and, of course, the Financial Administration is aware that 250 leave our country every year I don't know how many billions of dividends. Yes, someone here invests in taxes and then collects a dividend. And of course The tax administration checks the tax base, checks to see if the tax bases are optimised. Special Financial Bureau checks transfers between companies, checks for tax optimization. So we know all about it. So it would be good for you to see it, and, of course, showing the origin of the property is also a measure that we don't expect any miraculous tax collections from, but it's just the atmosphere of the company. That those who have stolen property here in the past at the expense of the state have ended Klondike. That's it! Today the Financial Administration wants to ask questions, has the competence - today it does not, even if all the financial administrations in Europe have it - just ask: you have property, so we ask if you have taxed it. And if he proves it, of course, there's no problem. So we're really doing all the measures at once, and it's not just about the record of sales, which of course became a politician, and of course it's properly presented as a project against businessmen, which is, of course, nonsense. I would also like to return here to the debate about what happened in Croatia. So this is Mr Kalousek talking about Eurostat, but as far as I know, Eurostat is getting data from the Croatian Statistical Office. And we have the data. So it's not true what was said here. Here the Parliamentary Institute has published, hopefully no one will question it, this is the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, the answer to the question Croatia, the record of sales, tax revenues, VAT, income taxes, the number of traders. As far as I know, it was entered by some opposition party, as I was informed. And there you have it in black and white. [[It shows the printed data.]] Here, I can read from it that it's not true what you've presented here. It is not true, because it is not true that thousands of entrepreneurs have gone bankrupt in Croatia. It's not true. I have a table here and it is clearly visible by individual - here the total number of entrepreneurs in Croatia is rising clearly. And the number of businessmen dropped slightly because they were embarrassed to show sales by 100, 300, 500, 1,000 percent at the same time! So they'd rather end it and start over, and I guess there was some kind of silent agreement that the tax office left them alone. So the data is clear: the number of entrepreneurs in Croatia has risen after the introduction of the EET. And, of course, they cut VAT dramatically. From 23 percent to 10. And then they chose the same thing. So it's obvious it has an effect. But the essential effect is the alignment of the conditions. So these are the basics. And I am convinced that our citizens have understood what is going on. It is clear that this project is supported by the Association of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Traders, so the Chamber of Commerce also supports it, so I think I will try to convince the opposition that this project is really good for all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u213	I, too, thank you, and now I ask the rapporteur for the final word. Then I have two priority rights here. Mr Kalousek and Mr Stanjura. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u214	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, and colleagues, the Minister of Finance has made sufficient clear the substance of the bills under discussion, so I will now just limit myself to such statistics. We discussed two House prints here - 513 and 514. A total of 35 Members, 15 of whom were duly enrolled, and two members of the Government. I have noted two procedural proposals, namely a procedural proposal to reject both bills, a House press of 513 and 514 at first reading, from Mr Kalousek and a procedural proposal to return both prints to recast from Mr Fiedler. We should vote on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u215	Yes, thank you, and now please, with Mr Kalousek's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u216	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't want to hold up much longer, because all the things the Minister said here could be refuted by a point by a point. He abused the situation that he had the final word, didn't say it in the debate, but it doesn't make sense. It'd just be beating up empty straw. I want to protest the one thing that you keep saying is that this is an improvement in the business environment, because it introduces a level playing field for everyone. It cannot be an improvement in the business environment and it cannot be the introduction of a level playing field for all when you introduce it only for 13 percent of final users who make cash payments! The others don't. Indeed, it is an argument that tears the brain out of the head! You're introducing it for one sector, you're not implementing it for another sector. For some, you might think about introducing it, promising others a permanent exception. After all, as far as I know, rapporteur Klaška, one of the reasons he was willing to support this nonsense is because he insists on some permanent exceptions to this law, so it can't be the same conditions for everyone! If they're paying for someone and they're not paying for someone. So please leave this argument! You've decided to punish someone and give someone the advantage that it doesn't apply to him. So that's one major protest I have. It's not a level playing field for everyone. It's an increase in discrimination because you want to apply it to someone, and there I think it's especially folk pressure that you want to apply it to someone else and you don't want to apply it to someone else. So it's not a level playing field for everyone. This is an increase in discrimination and an increase in the inequality of the business environment. That's the first thing we should break up with from this first reading. That you're doing this crime. And that we refuse to take away the argument that you're introducing a level playing field for everyone. On the contrary, you're making the distortion worse! You apply that instrument to someone, not someone else. That's one point. Second point. Even the tradesmen, and we know that they exist, they're not all angels, they're also the tradesmen who cut sales, who do some tricks here and there, so none of those businessmen are in a clean position towards the state budget. Everyone pays a little more than they get. I'm saying this because this nonsense, this discriminatory crime is brought here by a man who is in a clean position towards the state budget. Who's gonna pay a lot less than he's gonna suck out of it. There's a leech sitting here who's getting more out of public budgets than he's taking into them... [[Dissenting speeches from the O.R.]] Sorry, I hear the protests, I'm able to prove it and do the math. There's a leech sitting in the seat of the Finance Minister -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u217	Ambassador, I'm so sorry if you hear dissent, it's because of what words you're voting for. I think it's just this reason, otherwise, of course...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u218	Okay, if leeches, Madam President, seem pejorative to you, I'm sorry, there's a tick sitting in the seat of the finance minister...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u219	Mr Member, I am sorry, but at this point you are lowering the level of negotiations in the House, and I cannot accept that, because this day has been really tense, and I think that we are actually talking about things and not insulting each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u220	Sorry, ticks and leeches, given that the Minister of Finance has called me thieves many times, you will surely recognize that ticks and leeches are quite nice animals. [[Fun.]] Do you, Madam President, have an alternative to express what I have to say and not insult you at the same time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u221	Ambassador, if I were you, I wouldn't go down on this argument at all. So it's up to you. I think if you really have something to say, say it and don't engage in personal attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u222	Okay, thank you. I will remove myself from personal attacks, and I will try to tell you that every businessman, even one who sometimes cuts back, is still in a situation where he takes more into public budgets than he gets from them, unlike the Minister of Finance Babiš, the owner of Agrofert, who is in a position of tapeworm, who essentially always draws more out of public budgets than he leads into them. And this guy comes here to punish businessmen for the fact that we don't collect enough taxes. That's something we just can't accept and we'll never allow! Have a nice vacation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u223	Thank you and please now with Mr Stanjura's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u224	Thank you for the floor. I don't think he's that excited about this day. Perhaps without the comedy insert that the finance minister started with, it would have been a little less tense, but I didn't really find it tense. See ya. [[Laughter.]] I'm one of those who tries to avoid personal attacks. Sometimes I can't do it, then I usually apologize, it just happens. And if the members of the YES clap and say: do not allow personal attacks on our President Andrej Babiš, all right. Everyone defends their chairman, that's normal. But if your chairman here insults us, why don't you want the same thing for us, the same privilege of being insulted personally? [[Let's hear it for ODS and TOP 09.]] I'm not gonna insult anybody, at least I hope I'm not so excited about the microphone. I would advise the Vice-President and colleague Kalousek on how to evaluate when someone gives more than she takes, or vice versa. After all, it is simple, we have the EU, we have the Member States and they are clean payers, then they are neutral and clean beneficiaries. I don't think anyone's offended. So if it's individually evaluated - and I'm not going to evaluate it with anyone, or with the finance minister, or with his companies, or with other companies. And when someone wants to evaluate it and insult it with words, the net recipient or the net payer is simple. Very often our Eurohujers, who approve all the actions of Brusel without thought, have a basic argument: After all, we are clean beneficiaries, so what do you want? We take more than we give, so we can't jump out and we have to accept what they tell us, what they give us. It's just a reminder. I will return to the subject of our discussion today. I don't think she was useless. Many performances were good and I would expect in the final word not to repeat the introductory word, but at least a hint of answers to some of the questions or problems that we citizens here have formulated and patiently lectured. And I'm going to try to remind and stress the fundamental moment why we disagree. In my first speech, I said that we didn't care who the Minister of Finance was, and that we would disagree anyway, even if Bohuslav Sobotka did, or even if the Ministry of Finance belonged to KDU-ČSL. It's not who's putting it, it's what's in it. And again. If it were a single measure, our criticism would not be so strong and our opposition in the coming months would not be so strong. But let's try to remember - the account register, the teacher registry, the criminal record, somebody was thinking about the dog registry, chipping kids, checking reports, breaking bank secrets. It's really the Otesánek state is taking more and more information. And there's a difference when the bank and the state get the information. It's really different! Unless, of course, I use simplification: I am, and I want all the information. It's really different if it's a private entity that has some information about citizens, or if it's a state that publishes them, and we don't know what for. Last year, when we discussed the inspection reports and protested very strongly, we were assured that the pattern would be in January, February, March - and it's July and what? Are business entities prepared for inspection reports? Do we have information on how they are to comply with this obligation from 1 January? We don't! Because it's July 9th, hopefully it'll get better. So it's an attack on all of us's freedoms, even though it's only aimed at a select group of people. Because if you take one person's freedom, you'll take the other in a minute. Some may rejoice today and say: our profession has an exception so far. But you know the Brussels method, the salami method. Once-- Now it's gonna be an exception. But President Faltýnek today, when we had a correct debate on Czech Radio, said: but we will eventually introduce it for everyone. Now we start - hotels, restaurants, then retail, wholesale, but our goal is for everyone. So I would recommend to all those who rejoice that it does not concern them, that they do not rejoice. Sooner or later, it's coming. If today we build a system where there's only the sum that they've demonstrated here today, what's the problem with the Financial Administration saying in two years, yeah, but there's also goods that have excise duty, not just VAT. And there are also large evasions in excise duty, so it would be good to have items to know which items are subject to excise duty and which are not covered. There are quite a lot of items in restaurants that are subject to excise duty. And let's move on. So we'll know how much we're paying, what items, and all we have left is the little thing: who's paying? That's how we're gonna pick us up, and we're gonna keep tabs online. And that it is not entirely absurd, it is also indicated that the payment by card will also be registered sales and the card can already be recorded. It's only in the bank, but it's not that far from the bank to the state. So who of you wants to protect freedom, who wants to protect individual freedom, will reject this bill, and together we will look for other, more effective and more effective methods to combat tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u225	Thank you. And now, please, with Mr Černoch's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u226	Have a good afternoon again. In conclusion. I think the discussions that have been going on here have been and will be here. These are serious topics, topics that create emotions, and, of course, I think there have also been substantive arguments. For us, we have expressed ourselves factually and we have said what we do not like about this proposal. We had our arguments. And I repeat once again, if an independent office such as the Office for Personal Data Protection says that this proposal is one great danger, if there are a lot of other question marks that have fallen here, then I think that such a proposal should return, redo and then it should be renegotiated. If it is to straighten a system, it is to straighten a business, so it should really be introduced for all and not for a certain part of entrepreneurs. Again, taxes are to be paid, we want taxes to be paid, but they do not have laws that lead to taxes to be paid, to be discriminatory only for a certain part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u227	Thank you. And now please, with priority rights, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u228	Thank you. Madam President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I am a little sad about some final words, so I would only make two messages. Never say never, that's true in politics, and I also want freedom not to be robbed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u229	Thank you. Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, then Vice-President of the House Jan Bartošek. Mr. Bělobrádek is pulling back. Thank you. And now Vice-President of the House of Jan Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u230	Colleagues and colleagues, only briefly. In my time in the House, I have grown accustomed to the fact that there are certain types of speakers who do not change their rhetoric, so allow me to appreciate here those who have been discussing today, not insulting anyone, speaking to the point and bringing arguments for and against. The subject is not simple, but I think that the House belongs to a certain dimension of chivalry, and thanks to everyone who has behaved so today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u231	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u232	Thank you. I would really like to appreciate Mr Bartošek's speech. Because we have all understood the position KDU-ČSL will take, as it was intrigued before the government met, after the government met, it is simply a crucial uncompromising folklore that may be one of the few certaintys that we are breaking up with on vacation, and I wish you a happy holiday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u233	Thank you. Vice-President of the House Jan Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u234	Mr President of Kalousek through the President, I will not continue to develop this debate. Let me wish you all a nice holiday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-10-ps2013-029-08-001-031.u235	Thank you. Before we go on vacation, we have to deal with the vote. We will now proceed to the vote on the proposals that have fallen here. Firstly, it is a proposal to return the proposal put forward to the applicant for completion by Mr Fiedler. Before I begin the vote, I will sign you all off and ask you to re-registration with your cards. I'm just reminding you, we're at a point.
