ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-018-027.u1	27. Government Bill on the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws (Fire Rescue Corps Act) /House print 459/ - first reading I will again ask the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec for the introduction of the proposed bill. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-018-027.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce the Government's proposal for a law on the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws. The current government regulation of the position and organization of the Fire Rescue Corps is contained primarily in the current Act No. 238/2000 Coll., on the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws and implementing legislation. There have been various changes since its effectiveness affecting the functioning of the Fire Rescue Corps, both in legal and factual matters. For example, this is the case. on technological developments, communication, information systems. A proposal for a new law has therefore been drawn up which takes account of all the changes that have been made. The Government's proposal itself regulates the scope of the Fire Rescue Corps, including its organisational components and its structure, status and duties as well as cooperation with other authorities and persons. Work with information including personal data protection is also modified. For the sake of illustration, it may be noted that measures will be renewed and clearly defined in relation to the matter, the point of intervention or the person who needs to be applied in connection with the intervention of the Fire Rescue Corps. Another example is the improvement of the work of the Fire Rescue Corps, when lists of people with disabilities will be kept, because these persons use special means of emergency or special rules or procedures must be applied to their rescue. This will increase the efficiency of the whole intervention. In conclusion, let me say that we are trying to establish a legal anchoring of the position and competence of the Fire Rescue Corps in line with practice today. The aim is to achieve a state where its operation and position will be adapted in a clear and systematic manner, including institutes which are not currently being modified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-018-027.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Václav Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-018-027.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues, I would like to inform you very briefly, as rapporteur for House Press No. 459, of the proposal for a law on the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and of the amendment of certain laws. This is a draft law, which is prepared by the Fire Rescue Corps for a long time, as evidenced by the justification in the detailed explanatory memorandum. The proposed new legislation pursues the following basic objectives: This new legislation is intended to replace today's needs of the Fire Rescue Corps already completely inadequate legislation, which is Act No. 238/2000 Sb. It is intended to anchor new legal solutions, which the Fire Rescue Corps lacks in application practice today. As an example, I could specifically mention the work with information. [[18.00 hours]] The proposal redefines the privileges and obligations both towards members and to the staff assigned to the Fire Rescue Corps. As an example, allow me to introduce legislation imposing on members the obligation to take the necessary measures at a time off duty, while the possibility of entering the dwellings and other premises is also newly regulated. The aim is to achieve a condition where the authorisation system necessary for the proper performance of the service will be comprehensive and follow-up to the existing system, as defined by the Fire Protection Act, for example. In addition to the basic objectives mentioned, the proposal and the legal solution, which was not only missed in application practice in the long term, form part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-018-027.u5	I'm very sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I, too, would like to reach a situation with you for the proper performance of the service, and this will be the situation when the Chamber of Deputies calms down. I'm gonna ask my colleagues who are having fun to stop having fun. Thank you. Please, there's a condition for proper service now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-018-027.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. The example from application practice - there we can mention the possibility of wearing a uniform by former members of the Fire Rescue Corps. The proposal also allows protection of the symbols of the Fire Rescue Corps or more operational management of property within the Fire Department as a whole. The bill was discussed at government level, submitted without conflict after inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, passed the Legislative Council of the Government and was approved by the Government. Colleagues, colleagues, I highly recommend that we let this law go into second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-018-027.u7	I thank Mr Klučka. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. If there is no application, I shall conclude the general debate. The Minister and the rapporteur are not interested in the final word. We will therefore consider the proposal for a committee's order for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore take a vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be directed to the Security Committee as a guarantee. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 66, registered with 176 Members, for 141, against none. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anybody have a motion on the next committee's commandment, please? It's not like that. I am therefore of the opinion that we have ordered this proposal to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee, and I am ending the first reading of this bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. The next item is:
