ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u1	4. The draft law amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and some other laws /German press 445/8/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments, and we have received the resolution as Parliamentary Press 445/9. I welcome Senator Jan Hajda among us. He can take the floor at the newsstand. I ask that the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek speak for the appellants for the Senate resolution and for the amendments tabled. Once again, before the Minister takes the floor, I will ask the House for peace so that the Minister can take a stand on the resolution of the Senate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly mention at your meeting the bill amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection. As you know, the aim of this proposal is, above all, the implementation of the directive on alternative solutions to consumer disputes and the creation of conditions for adapting the regulation on consumer disputes online. The proposal also responds to the European Commission's warning on the lack of implementation of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive against consumers in the internal market. The Chamber of Deputies approved the proposal already on 7 October, largely for unprecedented cooperation between coalition and opposition parties, but the Senate rejected it on 11 November and returned it to the Chamber of Deputies with amendments. The main thing is the proposal to release your approved legislation on the information databases on bonus and consumer credibility, the so-called register of debtors. The Ministry of Industry and Trade supported this amendment in the Chamber of Deputies for two reasons. First of all, we were led by an effort to ensure as smooth a pass as possible to the proposed bill as the Czech Republic is already late with the transposition of the relevant European legislation. The European Commission has already received formal warnings on the late transposition of the directive on alternative solutions to consumer disputes. Furthermore, we saw the efforts of the Chamber of Deputies to fill the legislative gap in existing legislation as soon as possible and to enable consumer credit providers to comply with their legal obligation to examine the credit and credibility of consumer credit applicants. However, when negotiating the Senate law, the legislation of the register was subject to strong criticism. This criticism was not directed to the very intention of regulating the register of debtors in our law, but it was directed towards the lack of elaborateness of this part of the bill. [[12.30 hours]] Honestly, not that there weren't even some votes that were directed towards the debtor register as such, or that they fought for the debtor register to be voluntary. That would be pointless, of course, because troubled clients would never agree to the introduction of their name into this register of debtors. We may have explained this matter with the senators, at least I hope, but there are still some other problems. Senators have agreed that this is a legislation which significantly interferes with fundamental human rights and that this fact is not sufficiently reflected in the proposed legislation of registries. In particular, there is no clear supervision of compliance with the obligations laid down, no penalties for infringements are laid down, no mechanisms to prevent the misuse of the data collected are treated. The Senators further criticised the absence of consultations with relevant entities, in particular the Office for Personal Data Protection and the Ministry of Finance. Last but not least, the legislation called into question its lack of precision. After hearing these concerns and complaints at the Senate meeting, I took the view that the legislation of the debtor register should be deleted from the present law and submitted either separately or as part of the new Consumer Credit Act, or as part of the Personal Data Protection Act. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. In view of the facts that I have mentioned here, I would like to ask you to approve the bill amending the Consumer Protection Act, as amended by the amendments set out in Annex 273 to the Senate resolution of its 14th meeting of the 10th term of office. This will also regulate the legislative technical problem contained in the Postal Services Act, to which the Senate pointed out and which arose from the length of the legislative process under the present Act and which there is no doubt that this amendment removes a certain lack of consistency between the two laws. At the same time, I would like to say that it is most important for the Ministry of Industry and Trade to go through any of these proposals, whether senate or parliamentary, because on those main issues, at least according to the votes so far, that means the online dispute resolution, the fight against unfair practices, the alternative resolution of consumer disputes, is, I presume, consent. The risk, if we adopt a parliamentary proposal, is that it may prove that the senators in certain matters pointing to the less sophisticatedness of the debtor's register, it could be that an amendment might be needed concerning this specific part of the bill presented. That is all I wanted to say, and I very much wanted to ask you to approve one of the two versions submitted. I'll support the Senate version myself in the first round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u3	I thank the Minister and ask if they want to speak gradually on the resolution of the Senate by the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, this is the Committee of Economics, Václav Snopek. He's not interested. Rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee Jan Chvojka. He's not interested either. And the rapporteur on the agricultural committee, Mr Petr Bendl. I can't see either. In that case, I am opening up a debate. In the debate, Senator Jan Hajda will be the first to speak. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, Dear Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, the Minister said here why the Senate returned this bill with amendments. Here's what I'd like to say. The amendments in paragraphs 1, 3 and 7 of the Annex to the resolution of the Senate address the deletion of the fifth article of the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, which is part of the information database on bonus and consumer credibility. In the opinion of the senators, the elimination of consumer consent for the publication of data is not adequately compensated. We stated that the processing of personal data in credit registers is still based on the consent of data subjects. According to the views of the Senators, the Office for Personal Data Protection and a number of legal offices, this approach is contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The fact that the sellers are entitled to use only to prevent fraud is correct, but there is no penalty for what happens when they abuse this right. And frankly, all the registers that exist so far, and all the data has been obtained, let's say, on the edge of the law or wrongfully. By agreeing to this paragraph, we would all legalize this and the data become a commodity. At the same time, any citizen who forgets to pay a single check for three days of ČEZ and so on would get on the list of debtors. The amendments in points 2, 8 and 10 of the Annex to the Senate resolution are in relation to the post office. They are of a legislative technical nature, which in particular eliminates the collision arising from the amendment of the same provision of the Postal Services Act in two thousand at the same time, both in this Senate press and in the Senate press 138. So much, then, honourable Members, to justify the Senate and I believe that you will support the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u5	Thank you to Senator Jan Hajda, and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Chairman of the ODS Club, is the first to be applied with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the Minister's speech. My colleagues, members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, participated in the creation of the compromise proposal, which we then approved. We haven't changed our mind. We as a club will continue to support the House version, as we supported it, and we voted in favour of it in the first discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u7	I thank my colleague Stanjur. Now in the debate, Mr Petr Kudela - or the Minister with priority rights, please. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u8	Thank you for the opinion of the President of the ODS. I'd like to repeat that attitude. We can live with the MP's proposal, so I'll be happy if the Senate doesn't pass, the MPs will pass. I just felt it was necessary to point out that after the debate in the Senate, we came to the conclusion that there are risks after all and that there is a need for some amendment, so then I would ask everyone for any support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u9	Thank you. Now, then, for the debate, finally, Mr Petr Kudela. Your colleague Velebný will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u10	Mr President, Minister, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen. Since we started discussing this very important consumer protection law, things have been shifted and the Ministry of Finance has already submitted a proposal for consumer credit to the government. I have repeatedly criticized the debtor's register that it does not belong to this law, but in the finals, in order to pass this law at all, I voted in favour of the whole. However, here is the Senate proposal. I would recommend to the House that we adopt the Senate version, stating that the debtor register will then be dealt with in the Consumer Credit Act. Anyway, it is important that, as the Minister said, at least one of these forms passes. So, first of all, I recommend being for the Senate version, and if it doesn't pass, then for the House's original proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u11	I thank Mr Petr Kudel. Now, Mr Ladislav Velebný, Mr Radek Vondráček, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my support for the House version of the Consumer Protection Act, which the Senate has returned to us, shortened by the entire adjustment of the debtor register. I originally read this modification in cooperation with the promoter, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and experts on this issue. At its meeting in June, the Economic Committee agreed with it with minor legislative technical comments from the House of Legislation, which we subsequently worked on. [[12.40 hours]] We received further comments from the Office for the Protection of Personal Data when discussing the Constitutional Legal Committee. We have worked on these comments by our fellow Member Radek Vondráček and other fellow Members from the ÚPV largely again, and Radek Vondráček has read the second reading of the amendment, which was an acceptable compromise that meets the fundamental objectives of my amendment, namely consumer protection, and consumer protection. We have thus laid the foundations for clear rules for the functioning of the debtor register in full compliance with European legislation, recommendations and the World Bank, rules that respond to all the problems that have arisen in practice in the functioning of the debtor register over the past 15 years. They amended the rules for consumer consent to be included in the register, laid down rules for informing consumers of debt after maturity before being included in the register. It is a new obligation for the registry to inform consumers of the existence of debt in order to give it the opportunity to pay the debt, thereby preventing registration in the register. But now back to discussing this amendment in the Economic Committee and in the House. The Economic Committee, like the guarantee committee, once again supported and agreed with Mr Vondráček's amendment. In the third reading, the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act was supported by ladies and gentlemen 176 votes out of 179, with an amendment by Mr Vondráček being supported by 164 votes out of 179 present. At the same time, no colleague or fellow Member opposed it. We then passed the Consumer Protection Act to the Senate, which, on the basis of the lack of understanding and ignorance of our amendment, has thrown our many months' work out of the law and resolved everything within a few days. Dear colleagues, I have described to you the emergence of our amendment, I have described the advantages and strengthening of protection for consumers, which bring new rules. I am of the opinion that the House version has been drawn up honestly, that it introduces clear rules for the functioning of the debtor register, and that therefore the House version again deserves your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u13	I thank Mr Ladislav Velebný. Now, Mr Radek Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will reduce the prepared contribution considerably in the context of self-esteem, taking into account the time. We have had a detailed substantive debate on the content of this proposal. I'm not gonna repeat it here again. I remember the contributions of individual colleagues. I would like to remind you that the Consumer Protection Act has been adopted in this House by a convincing majority of 164 Members, including the part governing the register of debtors. This part is the result of a rather laborious development, as my previous speaker here has already submitted, when there was some compromise agreement, and I believe that a good legal text has been developed. I would start a little on the other side and take advantage of the fact that we are symbolically located in the pre-Christmas period, at a time when we should slowly focus on the holiday of peace and quiet, but part of the population uses this time for Christmas shopping fever and, of course, there are many such people who will also use some consumer loans and they will become more indebted. Interesting research just came out. For example, according to the Czech News Agency, 1434 personal bankruptcies were announced in November, which is 6 percent more than October. Of course, it can be expected to be even more in December. That is why the issue of the debtor register is up to date right now, as prepared by the House version. Because the vast majority of personal bankruptcies arise by hammering a wedge and borrowing to pay off older loans, and then getting deeper and deeper into a debt trap from which there is no escape. And the debtor register is not only an instrument for creditors who, regardless of the subject matter of activity, can exchange information that the debtor is already one foot in bankruptcy, but is actually a protection for those creditors from their, say, financial ignorance or miscalculation. [[debtors?]] Someone's using financial illiteracy, I don't like that expression, but it's protection from themselves. It is true that, according to recent surveys, 83% of consumers surveyed said that they are aware that the register protects against debt, they perceive this instrument positively. 90 percent of respondents know what a debtor register is, and they know that they will receive or will not receive a loan on the basis of information. It's another number that's alarming. According to the Stenmark survey, 4 out of 10 Čech are prepared to conceal some older loans when they apply for a new loan. This would not have occurred if we had register of debtors operating under statutory rules. Young people between the ages of 15 and 29 want to deny the most. [[Noise in the hall.]] Yes, I'll make it even shorter. To close it down, then. The registers are no new, the registers have been here for more than 15 years. We don't come up with anything new, we just want to anchor what already exists. I cannot agree with the senator that these registers operate on the edge or beyond the edge of legal rules. They operate in a particular vacuum, however, in accordance with the general legislation that we have here today. And now that we want to give it some more detailed rules, we should all be in favour. I certainly cannot support the argument that the adjustment is not complex enough. We hear this argument quite often here, I can't rule out that I'm going to use it every now and then as part of some government drafts and suggestions, but here it's a little complex for complexity. Let's solve current problems, let's not worry about whether there's gonna be a register of registers, who's gonna be the authority, how he's gonna supervise. Let us give the rules of what already exists and what protects consumers from themselves. I don't think I'm expecting a boom of hundreds or thousands of new registers. Those registers are not easy to run, they are easy to manage, and I don't expect there to be a mass creation of new ones. Really, we're not doing anything new here, we're just doing something that already exists. For this reason, I consider it to be a more appropriate solution for us to confirm today the parliamentary version that has passed the months of the process, it was not easy than to expect a new standard that has a difficult debate ahead of it, which certainly does not mean that it would be adopted by bringing it into government. Rather, let us agree to adopt the basic rules, and then let us think and continue to work on a quality standard or an extension of this standard in the horizon of, say, five years, when the new results of what we have adopted here today will come together. I stand by the fact that my amendment, as it has been tabled, is a good legal text which allows for the good functioning of the register of debtors, and I ask all of you, colleagues, to support the vote of the original parliamentary version, for which 164 have voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u15	I thank Mr Radek Vondráček. Now in the debate of František Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The TOP 09 will support the original version, but I don't understand what the coalition is doing here. You guys can't make a deal, club bosses, how you act united. This is exactly where you show complete chaos with the result completely uncertain. I just... Well, I understand, but then don't blame it on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u17	Thank you. If no one applies to the debate because I do not have a written application, I am ending the debate. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I'll check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and some other laws, pursuant to the House press 445/8, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 445/9.' I've started voting number 161 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 161, 167 for 61 Members present, against 73. The motion was not accepted. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. [[12.50 hours]] Let's keep going, then. We shall vote again, pursuant to Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, if the colleague Černý, who here has a factual remark - Karel Černý - no, it was a mistake. And we're good to go. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. We're set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and some other laws, as amended, in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to the Parliamentary Press 445/8. I've started voting number 162 and I'm asking who's against who? Thank you. Voting order number 162, of Members 171 present for 168, against one. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the Senator. I'm done with point four. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 12:51 a.m. and we have item No. 143, which is the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016. I consider it undignified to initiate such an important bill before lunch, and therefore I will announce the lunch break immediately with the fact that 12.57 hours will meet the Organising Committee and we will normally start at 14.30 hours discussing the draft law on the state budget and therefore discuss these proposals in due course. Thank you. I wish you a pleasant rest during lunch and I invite the members of the Organizing Committee to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-09-ps2013-036-06-005-004.u18	Dear colleagues, it is 14 hours 30 minutes and we will continue our afternoon program. The first point of our afternoon program is
