ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u1	14. Government bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain conditions of business and on the pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism and on the amendment of Act No. 40/1964 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on trades and trades (business law), as amended, as amended /German press 276/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the draft bill. I ask you, Madam Secretary, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to revisit the amendment to the Government Bill on certain conditions of business and on the pursuit of certain activities in the field of tourism, Act No. 159/1999 Coll. The amendment's ambition is to address only the most recent provisions discussed in the law in force while setting a balanced system of rights and obligations of travel agencies, insurance companies and the State while ensuring consumer protection in line with the objectives of the European Union Directive. I would like to mention here that this amendment is a matter for us, the Ministry of Regional Development and the whole state, to protect our consumers 100%. A more fundamental revision of the law or the emergence of a completely new law is foreseen only in connection with the transposition of a new European directive on package travel services and travel with assisted preparation. The prerequisite for the transposition is by the end of 2017. [[17.20 hours]] The essential discussed provisions of this Act relate to the issue of insurance of a travel agency in the event of bankruptcy in connection with setting the correct amount of the insurance limit and the joint liability of the travel agent and insurance undertaking for its provisions. The amendment was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 9 July 2014 and was discussed at first reading by the Chamber of Deputies on 29 October 2014. The second reading was not due to a disagreement with the insurance companies regarding the justification for the provision of § 8 (2) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v))))) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v))) (v)) (v)))))))))))) (v)))))))) (v))) In view of these circumstances, the Ministry of Regional Development was again in line with the amendment tabled between October and May 2015. During the whole legislative process, the Ministry of Regional Development has tried to adjust the provisions of the draft law so that insurance companies which most contradict the provisions of the law concerning the correct setting of the level of the premium performance limit, as set out in paragraph (8) of paragraph 2, have, in all circumstances, the possibility to control the development of sales at travel agencies, since the amount of sales is an indication that is crucial for the correct setting of the premium performance limit and other instruments which would guarantee them the means to properly determine the level of risk. In the context of the consultation process, the Ministry of Regional Development was co-operative with the Ministry of Finance, but also with the Czech National Bank. It took into account their comments and incorporated their initiatives with a view to maintaining the balance of the bill so that the amendment would be tabled without conflict. The Government's proposal for an amendment to the Chamber of Deputies of 9 July 2014 presented the deliberative sentence proposed by the Ministry of Finance, which the insurance companies could have used to reduce the performance of insurance benefits if it were shown that even though they had implemented the limit of premiums with care to the proper economy, but the travel agents did not have the relevant documentation, they are not liable for the poorly set limit. However, this deliberation was rejected by insurance companies, claiming that it would be difficult to demonstrate in practice that the poorly set limit was not set by their negligence. Despite the fact that it cannot be assumed that there would be fraudulent conduct by the parties to the travel agencies, the possibility was also taken into account and the justification of the law states that if it is proved that the travel agency has not provided the insurance undertaking with adequate supporting documents requested and that the judicial procedure will prove that the fraudulent conduct by the travel agent has taken place, then it can be assumed that the insurance undertaking will not bear full responsibility. At the same time, the above mentioned travel agency can be qualified as insurance fraud and the insurance company should proceed in accordance with the law of the Czech Republic. As part of the cooperation of the Ministry in the processing of the comprehensive amendment, the following provisions and the following issues have been adapted. The originally proposed fixed limit for insurance claims was removed, initially amounting to 1 million. and 4 miles. by mode of transport. That's not in the novel anymore. Based on the request of the Czech Insurance Association, the obligation for the travel agency to communicate the following data monthly to the insurance company: number of passengers, number of tours sold, total price for tours sold, amount of advance payments for tours sold and more. These data will be used by the insurance undertaking to obtain regular information on the travel agency's activities and will serve to set the limit on insurance benefits. Furthermore, there has been a change and there is an amendment to the Bank Guarantee Institute for the bankruptcy of a travel agency as another possible alternative to bankruptcy collateral, which is also regulated in the legislation of other Member States of the European Union, such as Slovakia or Germany. Next. Based on the request of the Czech National Bank, its comments were reflected in the final amendment. The most important point is that a fine for travel agents relating to administrative offences and offences has been increased in § 10b para. 5 (b) and in Section 10 (c) from 500 thousand to 1 million. Crowns. At the same time, administrative offences for the travel agency were added in the event of failure to inform the insurance undertaking or the bank on insurance risks, in particular an increase in sales for tours during the duration of insurance, and an administrative offence in the event of failure to provide information to the insurance undertaking or the bank, unless the travel agency delivered the required data on a monthly basis. A fine of up to CZK 100,000 is also imposed on additional administrative offences. For each calendar month, the Agency is required to keep a record of the number of tours sold, including the amount of sales for these tours, including sales for travel vouchers. This measure is introduced for the purpose of obtaining information on the management of the travel agency. An administrative offense of 1 million is also linked to this obligation. Crowns. During the duration of insurance without undue delay, the travel agency is obliged to notify the insurance undertaking of a change in insurance risk, in particular an increase in sales. Based on this obligation, an administrative offense of CZK 100,000 is set. And another change. Even according to the Czech National Bank, the legal liability of the statutory body or members of the statutory body is in the event of failure to comply with the obligations of the law. We believe that the Ministry of Regional Development has introduced adequate legal instruments into the insurance policy amendment so that it can monitor the development of sales for tours at any time during the insurance period, which is a key indication for the correct adjustment of insurance premiums and the limit of insurance benefits. At the same time, its protection against economic risks will also be ensured if it is shown that the travel agency has acted against the insurance undertaking in a fraudulent manner contrary to the law. Insurance companies themselves may impose a duty on travel agents in their insurance contracts to charge on the actual analytical account of sales for sold tours, travel vouchers and advance payments, as well as the obligation to verify the accounts of the travel agency by the auditor or penalty for travel agents in the event of failure to comply with legal obligations. The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development recommended unanimously by resolutions to the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve the Chamber Press 276 as amended by the comprehensive amendment tabled in the context of the Ministry's synergies. Despite all the measures mentioned, on which we have been active, I have received information in recent days from the Czech Insurance Association and the European Insurance Corporation that some insurance companies will not offer this insurance product if the amendment in this form passes through approval. It should be noted here that the Czech Republic is obliged to comply with the requirements of the Directive, or Article 7 of Directive 90/314 on package travel services, stays and tours, i.e. to provide guarantees to ensure the return of the funds and to return the consumer in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy. The Czech Republic has chosen a compulsory insurance scheme in the event of the bankruptcy of the travel agency to ensure this requirement and a bank guarantee is also proposed. In the event of failure to comply with the requirements of the directive, the Czech Republic is threatened with infringement of the obligation arising from EU law, the so-called infringement, and the application of the right to compensation due to a lack of transposition that would have a negative impact on the state budget. Let me conclude by asking for the approval of the amendment of the Act as quickly as possible so that the main purpose of the amendment, which is to improve the protection of travel agency customers, can be achieved as quickly and as best as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'll say it's 29th. 10. At the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the press was ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Economic Committee. The transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure states that, if it is not clear to the Chamber of Deputies before the amendment is effective, which committee is a guarantee committee, the Guarantee Committee shall designate the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore propose that we make the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development a guarantee committee. Before I vote on it, I ask if anyone else has a proposal. It's not like that. In that case, I will call in my colleagues from the lobby because we will vote. [[17.30 hours]] I will therefore vote that we will make the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development a guarantee committee. I have an application for a check-out. I'll have you all checked out. I'm gonna ask you to re-registration. I therefore initiate the vote on the designation of the guarantee committee and ask who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? We have a vote with order number 231, the Members present are 125, for proposal 113, against none. I note that the proposal has been approved and the Guarantee Committee has been designated by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as the House's press 276/1-3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Martina Berdychová, take the floor and inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been mentioned here, this House press has been assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development on 29 October 2014. The Committee discussed this proposal on 12 November, but interrupted the discussion of the amendment and commissioned the Sub-Committee on Tourism to prepare House Press 276 for discussion in the Committee. The Tourism Sub-Committee has repeatedly addressed this amendment, in particular the obligations of travel agencies towards insurance companies and the Ministry. He was prepared, as the Minister has already said, an amendment specifying, by mutual agreement, the relationship and obligations of travel agencies and insurance companies and the supervision of the Ministry. Furthermore, the amendment addresses the system of financing mountain services. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has renegotiated this House Press on 10 June and adopted Resolution 119, which first recommends the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve the House Press 276 as amended by the amendments adopted, further empowers the Committee Rapporteurs to introduce the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies and instructs the Vice-President of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Since the Minister has already, more or less, justified the complex amendment and I would just repeat myself, I would perhaps just add up, because the mountain service activity was not mentioned, which was not a conflicting issue, that the amendment, which is part of the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and in the system is under number 276/3, still contains a change in chapter Horská služby, where § 11d, which regulates the provision of state budget resources to ensure the basic activities of the mountain service, is newly inserted. The rest has already been told by the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u5	I thank the rapporteur and we will continue with the second report by Mr Michal Kučera, rapporteur of the Economic Committee for Economic Affairs. I ask for his information on the committee's proposal and any amendments and their justifications. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u6	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Economic Committee of the 22nd meeting of 3 June 2015 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., House Press 276. The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the Chamber Press 276, as amended by the approved amendments that are inserted into the system. I'm not going to name them all here. The meeting took place on 3 June 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u7	I thank the rapporteur of the Economic Committee Michal Kučer and open the debate. In it I have his application, but before the priority rights of colleague Stanjura and rapporteur Michal Kučera, I have a factual comment by Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u8	Thank you for the floor. When I listened to the Minister, she announced that she would bring back a new law, which, in her case, is almost a tradition that she would always present something and say that in a moment she would bring a new one, because it would have to be repaired. So I just want to ask when the law will come when it already knows it's gonna bring some more because I don't think it's for this business - to make sure that in a year, the rules will change again - that it's not good. Especially in tourism, where it is planned for more than one period, it already says here: I will bring another law and the law will be different and it will respond to other things again. Otherwise, I'm completely appalled by, I don't know, what you have with insurance companies, why you're going to hand them like this, but creating such unequal market conditions by giving insurance companies almost, I'll say, the authority of all travel agencies to look at the account, so I don't know where you are in the right-wing, you say, the movement YES - how did you figure that out at all?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u9	Thank you. Although I doubted that there might be a factual point to the debate before the debate started, my colleague Bendl actually responded to the Minister's report. Priority right first to Mr Stanjura, Chairman of the ODS Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'll pick on Petr Bendl. I was talking about it in the first reading. Madam Secretary said she'd take a look at the section, nothing's happened to the paragraph yet. Again the state is breaking into contractual relations and it also states in the reasoning, not only in the section, but in the explanatory memorandum to this section 8.3 it is written - this paragraph is so that the clients of the insurance company have to transmit these data to the insurance company. It's like the insurance company couldn't make it conditional on the conclusion of an insurance contract. I would like to draw attention to the non-systemic amendment by the Economic Committee concerning the financing of the mountain service. We could write this but about every organizational component of the state or some o.p.s. and stuff like that. It says here - who presents the budget and who has to be two years of budget. But that's pretty standard. That's completely pointless. But we'll decide that at third reading. Of course, I was interested in a whole other thing. The Minister spoke here for quite a long time in the opening words, but she forgot to say one important thing. If the law passes as she suggests, no one will insure clients of Czech travel agencies. And the secretary knows that. It has the same letter as I, which is written by insurance companies, the Czech Association of Travel Agencies, the European Association of Travel Agencies, and in those letters it is written everywhere, if it passes as you suggest, we apologize, although it is an interesting business for us, so unfortunately under such conditions we will not insure anyone at all. I don't understand. First of all, it's still silent, and second of all, the problem isn't solved at all. What consumer protection if no travel agency has insurance? What will be the solution? Well, travel agencies won't do business in the Czech Republic. They will do business somewhere else, maybe offer Czech citizens tours here. And even though we've heard so many times before who the Secretary of State has discussed this with, he's not talking about it, and I don't understand it at all. I have a researched proposal that he'll make first, then he'll give a reason. I would propose that we discontinue this item until the Ministry of Finance has drawn up an opinion on both the fundamental House of the Press and the amendments under the numbers 276/2 and 276/3. Because the amendment indirectly amends other laws, namely the Insurance Act, I think the bankruptcy law, and these are things that belong to the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance, and not the Ministry of Regional Development. The exceptions that we have mentioned here, both to those data which must be provided to insurance companies, because it is in the law, and for example to the paragraph proposed by the Economic Committee, as the draft mountain service budget is made, are basically...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u11	Yes, I understand that, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask the House for peace and discussion, please move to the lobby, both colleagues and fellow Members, and ministers, so that we can ensure -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u12	Hang on, just 21 more minutes. I really don't think it's a problem for Czech travel clients to stay uninsured, as marginal, to come up with this -- well, okay, I'm still gonna talk for 20 minutes, and then we're done and we're done for today. I would quote from the letter I was talking about, which the secretary received. He writes: Although we are dependent on the nature of our business to cooperate with travel agencies, and therefore we are interested in providing as broad a service as possible, we must communicate to our partners that we will not be able to continue to offer insolvency insurance to travel agencies in the current wording of the bill. The main reasons are, in particular, the unwillingness of shareholders, but also the reinsurers to take risks and accept insurance covering the payment of insurance above the agreed limit. - And the Minister is very fond of being referred to as a person, and I believe her to be concerned about this, so this sentence is important: there is no resemblance in any legal order of the Member States of the European Union. I'll try to translate it. Anyone who enters into an insurance contract has the amount of performance there. And it's up to him and the insurance company. But in this bill, it says: It doesn't matter what the agreed amount of performance is. You're gonna pay for all the damage those clients are gonna do. And it doesn't matter - if the limit was ten million, but the damage will be twenty, you'll pay twenty. It's logical that no one wants to close those safeguards. So what consumer protection? Which consumer protects it? How does this help Czech travel agencies? Nothing. On the contrary, it's bad for them. I would be really interested in the Minister of Finance's opinion, whether he knows what his colleagues in the government are doing to insurance companies and what he is proposing to them and what risk he is preparing - not for insurance companies, but for those clients. Let's talk about them. I think it is logical that the law should, in my opinion, mainly ensure that those who are abroad are returned to their homeland when the travel agency is failing. I don't think that's a dispute. But should all purchased tours also be paid a year in advance? Is that true in other kinds of business? If you pay some businessman or some smaller firm a deposit to make you a kitchen, and the company goes bankrupt before the delivery. There's no such thing. You have to apply for insolvency proceedings or bankruptcy proceedings as standard, and then your claims are satisfied in some way - more than less than more, that's true. And here it is proposed by the law of no-limit performance. But it's just a wish, because it's not really gonna work out at all, so the situation won't get any better. On the other hand, in order to get through this, travel agencies really don't have to send it to insurance companies - what we criticize is that it's unnecessary, and the specific data, because the insurance contract just won't be concluded. And I'd like an answer to that, Madam Secretary. You know there's a problem. Why didn't you talk about it? And how are you going to solve this problem? And how are you going to get those insurance companies to pass the law the way you're suggesting they close the insurance contracts? Well, you just can't make them. Some Members find this to be smiling. So let them look into the law and try to tell them how you're gonna get someone to offer some product if they don't want to offer it. He's just not gonna close it. Although the insurance companies in that letter, Madam Secretary, admit that this is an interesting business for them, they say under these conditions: we apologize, but we in the Czech Republic will not insure anyone against bankruptcy and insolvency in the field of tourism. So I filed a procedural motion. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u13	Thank you. I have two factual points - Mr Pilný and Mr Petr Bendl. But before I grant it, we must agree that we will vote without a debate, unless the President means that it will be after at least a general debate. [[Member Stanjura responds from the scene.]] Okay, no debate. I'll rejoin you, I'll unsubscribe, I'll ask you for a new registration. We will decide on the suspension of this item in the vote order number 232, which I will begin when I read the apologies. It is an excuse for Mr Bohuslav Chalupa from 18 to 19 hours - twice delivered, so only one. Let's take a vote. Who is in favour of the interruption of the negotiations as suggested by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Chairman of the ODS Club? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 232. Of the 134 Members present for 32, versus 76. Let's continue. We therefore have the factual remark of Mr Ivan Pilný, then Mrs Fischerová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would react briefly to what does not belong to the law. It was quoted here. It's a mountain service and there have been attempts to stick water rescuers, cable cars, etc. This is not part of the law at all, and the consequence is that the mountain service has to fight for its budget every year because it hangs in the air in the tourism law. We have asked the accompanying resolution, I mean the Economic Committee, the Minister of the Interior, to resolve this within the integrated rescue system, because these things simply have nothing to do there. So I hope that this will be resolved in a different way than in this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u15	I thank Mr Pilný for his time. Now Mr Petr Bendl's point of fact and then Mr Tomio Okamura's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u16	Thank you. I only have two notes. I wanted to ask the Minister to finally comment on the material she is presenting so that they can possibly comment on other responses to what she is going to say - because we as ordinary Members who do not have the right to speak at any time, then we cannot respond to her speech. So I'm begging you to respond to what your colleagues have been asking you. And at the same time, I want to make a comment. I feel like I get it. You guys are short - because at first I thought you were insurance agents, now it looks like you want to give insurance companies a chance to surf account numbers and almost all travel agencies' accounts. But somehow, the client just disappeared. As a result, in the battle between insurance companies and travel agencies, the client decides to go to a travel agency abroad, because the Minister of Regional Development, or the House, will drive them out of here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Tomio Okamura's point of order now. Then, in the debate, the priority right of the rapporteur of the Economic Committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Stanjura and Mr Bendl's question. Indeed, in order to ensure a 100% legal claim for clients, the bill is based on a similar provision, which is in the final version of the new European Union directive, which was approved in May in the trialogue of the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of Europe and will be formally approved in the European Parliament and Council in September or October of this year. And that's where the term full payment is now. This means, on the contrary, this amendment of the law prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development is in line with the trend in the European Union, although I am a travel agent of course, but I am saying it fairly here, and I must say that, on the contrary, the 100 percent fulfilment, the legitimate claim of clients, is now required. And that insurance companies refuse to meet the 100% demands of clients, that is logical, but it is also business. The aim of this amendment is to protect consumers 100%. This has been fulfilled here, which is why I agree with the amendment, because the client, the consumer, is the first priority. There were problems with the fact that the insurance companies did not want to meet 100%, for example, the insurance company Generali or the Czech Business Insurance Company. [[17.50 hours]] People didn't get their legitimate claims. So it was the aim of the amendment so that the client would be 100% protected, not protected by insurance companies. That wasn't a primary interest. And that is in line with the trend in the European Union and with the directive that we will still have to implement in a short time, and we will have to amend the law accordingly. Otherwise, when I talk to insurance companies, you get a letter, but you only judge from a letter. The practice is that if you talk to insurance companies individually, they'll continue to insure themselves and tell us all the time. So maybe less theory and more practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u19	I thank Mr Tomio Okamur for his time. Now, with the factual remark of the rapporteur, Mrs Berdychová. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u20	I would just like to remind you that last November the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development interrupted the discussion of this press, mainly because insurance companies told us that they would not insure travel agencies. Therefore, only at this moment after a long time of discussion, which has been repeated in the subcommittee on tourism and has not been at all easy, and also in this comprehensive amendment there are many provisions and other obligations for travel agents so that insurance companies have a minimum risk of setting a limit on insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u21	Thank you to the rapporteur. One more factual remark from Mr Stanjura before the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u22	I completely misunderstood whether or not the rapporteur is in favour of this. I didn't quite get it from the show, but that's not why I applied. You, Madam Secretary, are using the concept of a comprehensive amendment. I want to make sure there's no such thing. We don't have it in any thousands. So I'd like to unite what we're talking about. If you mean the standard amendments that have passed - a comprehensive amendment is that you take the old law, you wring it like this, you throw it in the trash and you write the whole new law. This is a comprehensive amendment. Then it is put to the vote that this is the basis, and any other amendments are made to this. I didn't find anything like that. I really don't. I don't know right now. Either I am missing something, I am neither a member of the Economic Committee nor a member of the Public Administration Committee, but I do not have such a thing at my disposal as a member of the Budget Committee. If I had thought that you were actually trying to amend the Act on Insurance and to create potential commitments of the Czech State and the Czech budget, I would certainly suggest that the law should be on the Committee on Budgets, so that we should talk about insurance and insurance, because if there is a problematic and debatable proposal by Mr Šincl and the government coalition can obviously not deal with it, so it is postponed, although we have been convinced that we need to discuss this by the EU, the European Commission and the transposition by the end of June at the latest, this bill may have even worse consequences. And don't tell me you want to protect a client if those travel cards aren't insured. And you have it in black and white in the mail. So tell me if this is true and if travel agencies keep up with what they're writing, who's gonna insure those clients and what kind of consumer protection they're gonna be. And who's going to pay if the travel agency goes bankrupt and doesn't have insurance? Or are you going to take all their concessions away because they're not insured? Well, it can happen because it says that a travel agency can only do business if it has insurance. But -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u23	Mr. Ambassador, the time for a point of fact is over. Thank you. Mrs Fischerová, now duly applied for, because Mr Kučera has given up his application. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I listen to the debate, the general debate, and I just want to say that it is about 2.2 miles. tours that are sold annually in the Czech Republic, mostly for Czech clients. That's just the way we figure out the number we're moving in. Now there was an open question of non-limital insurance benefits. I can still remember historically when we discussed this law at first reading last year, so there was a request to shorten the 30-day hearing period, and then there were problems that we have here after a year. I confess that I see for myself that the law isn't really cooked to make it work so that clients don't stay abroad. On the other hand, the more insurance will be involved, so we must also realise that this is reflected in the price of the trip. Now an amendment to the Civil Code has yet to come in, where there is yet another "pleasing," loss of joy, and which happens to be taking on more complaints this year, and it is already going to be a court hearing, that it is then necessary to meet additional insurance amounts, and it is usually on the shirt of travel agencies. I will mention that travel agencies used to be less than 4,000 ten years ago and currently around 1,000. This is also a reflection of how society, travel and all associated with it are developing. I've got the numbers ready here that year there's been so many bankrupt travel agencies, I'm not gonna hold them up. I'm gonna go back to the no-limit insurance. I have an amendment prepared that I would like to read in a detailed debate. I confess that the President of the ODS MEP has actually already read me the justification for the amendment, so I will not repeat it again, I will refer to it in a detailed debate. That should really make up for what we're discussing right now, which means there's no climate insurance. I will also say that as the insurance travel agency between insurance companies and travel agencies is currently operating, this is how it works. There is no need, more or less, to look for new solutions. I will, therefore, still sign up, Mr President, for a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u25	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová, and you have already entered into a detailed debate. Now with proper application by Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, when I'm watching the debate here, it seems to me that someone here may have succumbed to the lobbying of insurance companies, and I absolutely must refuse. After all, the aim of this amendment, which we are already working on in our Association of Czech Travel Agencies and Travel Agencies from Minister Jankovský, means it stretches for many years, is 100% consumer protection in the sense that it should be paid 100% legitimate claims, so-called consumer claims. That was the problem. And I do not agree that it worked here because, for example, with Generali insurance company or Czech Business Insurance Company, I would say really sad cases where people paid money for tours, the tour was insured and the money paid for the tour in case of the bankruptcy of the travel agency was not refunded, so it did not work. On the contrary, the aim of this amendment is to make it work for the consumer, which means that the heavily saved money for the trip, whether it's Croatia or wherever it is, can get the client back. That was the target. If this target is not met, the whole amendment is actually losing its meaning because it was the original goal for the client to be 100% protected. Therefore, in this amendment there is a great tightening of the obligations of travel agencies, including high fines, that has already been mentioned here, up to CZK 1 million in the event of non-compliance, and there is also an increase in the administrative burden of travel agencies and supervision of compliance with the law precisely in order to protect the consumer. So that's why I'm saying it seems to me that it's some kind of insurance lobbying that I think on that - or we have hard numbers here that they make really big money on that travel agency insurance. But on the other hand, it's not just about insurance companies who have to lower their quotes a little bit from their comfort and from their earnings and make the job a little more precise, but also the travel agents, they have been tightened up by this law, and we have agreed to this in order to ensure that the client is 100% protected. Yet here representatives of insurance companies, the Czech Insurance Association argues -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u27	My colleague, I'm going to interrupt you. I ask the House for peace. I would like this press to be discussed in good order. We're at second reading. I therefore ask for peace so that the Member can finish his speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u28	Yet, obviously, representatives of insurance companies have been vexed by some of the Members, namely the Czech Insurance Association, and they argue that this amendment proposal poses a high risk here and now by some Members. And it can happen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u29	It's not working. So please move the discussion into the foyer. Should I appoint committee chairmen, colleagues, colleagues? Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u30	And it haunts us by the fact that many travel agencies will not be insured by Czech insurance companies. Although insurance companies can check by law all the information required by the travel agency, they also require this law, they even have legal access, insurance companies have legal access to all documents relating to travel insurance, both prior to the conclusion of the insurance contract and at any time during the duration of insurance. Despite all this insurance companies do not want to take the risk that they themselves erroneously set the limit on insurance benefits. Now I don't know who else is supposed to count, and who else is supposed to determine whether someone is well insured or not, other than insurance companies. That would be a really comfortable business, that basically just cash out. Basically, they can figure it out somehow, then they don't even have to pay 100 percent, and the client's money stays out there in the bathroom. I really don't think this can be understood, and really some of the right-wing or ultra-right views here haven't really disappointed me in this irresponsible approach to citizens. In cases of bankruptcy of the travel agency thus the insurance company will not pay any damage beyond this limit. This has become a custom lately, and I have already spoken for example. about the insurance company Generali or the Czech Business Insurance Company, which simply did not meet all the legitimate claims of clients, and this should be changed by this proposal. Moreover, since these are insurance contracts between two business entities, in my view it is not possible for the consumer to be sanctioned by the fact that he will not be granted full-time insurance premiums, which is actually the proposal for an amendment that we are about to hear here, basically regulates it. But it can't be that the client suffers because the insurance company, which is very well able to calculate everything else to make money, suddenly doesn't want to count well, or doesn't want to be responsible for its calculation, that's really weird. It is simply a contractual relationship between the insurance undertaking and the travel agency, so it is necessary for the insurance undertaking to bear certain business risks, which is confirmed by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 16 February 2012, etc. If there's any discussion, I can quote it here. In my opinion, the limit on insurance benefits must simply be agreed in such a way that, in the event of the bankruptcy of travel agencies, all travel agency clients' claims are met. And I'm saying again, who else should be the expert, or is the expert, who collects different insurance premiums from all of us here than the insurance company. And all of a sudden, she doesn't want to take the risk. By the way, this principle, it means so-called. Full payment, full payment for legitimate claims, is also included in the final version, as I said here in my previous entry, in the final version of the new Package Travel Services Directive, which was already approved in May 2015 in the trialogue and in September, will be submitted for approval by the European Parliament in October 2015. This means, once again, that this proposal by the Ministry of Regional Development is in line with the trend in the European Union. Otherwise, less than a thousand travel agencies are insured each year in the Czech Republic and the average of bankruptcy in the last three years is five to six a year. So just for those who aren't orienting, it's not that hundreds of travel agencies or 10 percent of travel agencies are crashing here a year, it's about five or six travel agencies, and I'm not even talking about size, it's also a need to differentiate more from thousands. This is not even 1 per cent of the total number of travel agencies, and the average number of failures in the European Union is above the Czech average. I must say that the monopolistic position of insurance companies and the inexhaustible conduct of some of them in the event of the bankruptcy of travel agencies has in recent years been very negative towards the consumer who has been reduced in the insurance performance. This means, perhaps one more number, that according to qualified estimates the expected profit of insurance companies for travel agency insurance over the last five years was about CZK three quarters of a billion, while the estimate of the premiums paid is only 135 million. Crowns. This means, of course, this product is highly profitable and there is no way that insurance companies are losing on it. At present, we have six insurance companies that are competent to insure travel agencies against bankruptcy. We were also not satisfied with many things in this law, I mean us, travel agencies, but, as I said, in exchange for 100% consumer and client protection, we agreed to have monthly reports. Insurance companies are legally able to control everything in a travel agency as far as the economy is concerned, so it's just whether they want to or not. It seems to me that they just want to cash in, but they don't want to do any more work. I must say that I support the proposal of the Ministry of Regional Development. She has done well, I must say, well done, and I must commend the Minister in this too, because she has done so in a truly professional manner. And we all had to make concessions, we all had to make concessions, so I don't know why insurance companies couldn't do them in the interests of consumer protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u31	I thank Mr Tomie Okamur and note, ladies and gentlemen, that the primary task we set ourselves on Tuesday is to complete this point today. So I expect you to proceed rationally. I have here a point of fact to Mrs Wernerová. [[Note from the O.R.: She's already canceled.]] Or was that just a mistake with Mrs. Wernerová? There was a mistake, so it's okay. If I do not see anyone, I am ending the general debate. A final word after a general debate or after a detailed one? It's general. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to a few things. To comment that I like to submit a novel and in a few years to make a new law. I don't like it, I joined office in October 2014, where both the amendment to the Public Procurement Act and the amendment which is the subject. I just have to finish it. However, to say the least, he has already mentioned it in detail as well as Mr Okamura. We must transpose the directive of the European Union by the end of the year plus minus 2017, when we will present it. It will contain much more detail. I wanted to comment on the insurance problem. I would like to assure the Chamber of Deputies that the Ministry of Regional Development negotiated six months between travel agencies and insurance companies. Even the head of the Czech Insurance Association participated in certain committees, where he basically agreed with the text, which fell there as well. I would like to mention here that insurance companies have a lot of tools that are part of the proposed amendment and which can be used by the insurance company, so that she can be sure of the state of the travel agency. if it is solvent, if it has an economic result, how it works, etc. I would like to mention here, and what I hear here from the side and from the posts, I think it is not right for you to vote here at the next reading, if necessary, that the state should bear the business risk for insurance companies. It's not a matter of state. It's up to the insurance company's owner to decide whether or not to go into the business. We, as a state, give insurance companies the opportunity to decide whether to leave the insurance at 2% or not to trust the travel agent, they give her 50% of the insurance. I would also like to support what has already happened here, that for insurance companies it is a really big business, insurance of travel agencies, and we cannot imagine that they would really give way, especially after our six months...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u33	I beg the peace of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u34	Especially after our six months of negotiations with both the travel agency association and the insurance association and the sub-insurance companies themselves. Here I just want to determine and mention that the amount of insurance benefits is determined by the insurance company itself. And once again, this amendment gives her the means to determine the amount of performance she requires. Here I would also like to conclude my last sentence. I must say that we, as an MMR, were very surprised that the Czech Insurance Association essentially did not use our proposal to include a deliberative clause in this amendment. They turned it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u35	I thank the Minister and the final word after the rapporteur's general debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u36	Thank you for the floor. I might even respond to Mr Stanjura. We discussed this on the tourism subcommittee, and almost all of us approved the amendment. It is therefore not a comprehensive amendment, but such a big amendment. And so is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The threat that insurance companies won't insure our travel agencies was given to us in the fall. Since then, it's all been discussed, negotiated with both parties, how to get out of this, and how to set the terms for both parties so that the insurance can really be concluded. We did not receive the new report that there is a threat that insurance companies would not be able to enter into insurance against the bankruptcy of travel agencies until last week, after the negotiations in that six-month period, almost three quarters of a year. So I am here for this reason, because it did not appear to us in the big amendment, in a detailed debate I would read another amendment which would just contain the deliberative provision. This applies to § 8 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 2 and it's going
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u37	I thank the rapporteur for the final word after the general debate. I am opening up a debate in detail in which I have two priority rights, namely the rapporteur and the President of the ODS Club, and then Mrs Fischerová, as duly entered into a detailed debate. Now, the rapporteur in a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u38	As I have already announced, I will read an amendment which is not yet inserted into the system. The amendment proposes that the text of § 8 para. 2 was: The Agency and the insurance undertaking shall be obliged to proceed in the negotiation of insurance under point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 1 with professional care and arrange insurance within the scope of Section 6. If the insurance contract provides for a limit on insurance benefits, this limit must be at least 30 per cent of annual planned sales from sales of tours, or if these sales are to be lower than sales in the previous year, at least 30 per cent of these sales in the previous year. If the insurance undertaking had and could have been aware, at the time of the conclusion of the insurance contract or during the duration of the insurance, that the agreed limit of the insurance performance does not ensure the satisfaction of all the customers' claims of the travel agent arising from § 6, it cannot limit the insurance performance of the agreed limit in the event of an insurance event.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u39	I thank the rapporteur for her contribution to the detailed debate. Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr President, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u40	I would just like to ask the rapporteur, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to justify the amendment, because it must be justified not only by the written ones but also by those that will be heard during the procedure. No reason you didn't say, you said, and you read the text, no reason. I understand that, but there's some reason why you're proposing it, what it's going to have, what it's going to have to have, what it's going to have to do with budgets, what it's going to have to do with whether it's not going to be a non-limit performance or what it's going to be. I'd like to hear a statement of reasons. Thank you. It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u41	That is true what the President of ODS says, because every amendment must be justified. Just one sentence, rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u42	Mr President, I have already mentioned the reasoning before the detailed debate, so I will read it to you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u43	In the general debate, you mean, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u44	So given the threat that insurance companies won't insure us travel agencies, I propose a change in § 8 para. 2 second sentences, so that, contrary to the valid wording of the laws, insurance undertakings can limit their liability in cases where they could not be aware that the agreed limit would not be sufficient to cover the legitimate claims of customers under Section 6. The exemption should be interpreted restrictively with regard to appropriate professional care and statutory obligations in the negotiation or duration of insurance. That's what the deliberative clause is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u45	Thank you. Now, Mrs Fischerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u46	Thank you very much for the floor, I will be brief, we have a detailed debate. So, ladies and gentlemen, I will inform you that there is an amendment in the system that relates to the amendment of the Committee on Public Administration and, at the same time, to the Committee on Economic Affairs. It's listed here under number 2618. And since this amendment is to be justified under the Rules of Procedure, it is actually similar to what I have just heard from my previous speaker, Mrs Martina Berdychová. It's about the fact that it's actually about the non-limity performance so that it can be deliberated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-012-014.u47	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. This was the last one entered into a detailed debate. I'm asking who else for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask if there is interest after a detailed debate on the final words. This is not the case with either the Minister or the rapporteur. So I finish point 14, second reading of the bill on tourism business. Thank you, of course, to the Minister, thank the rapporteur for their superhuman performance in this hot afternoon. Since the agreement of Tuesday's board meeting is in place, I am interrupting today's meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning and we have a 9 p.m. reply to the written interpelations with which the Members disagreed, and then firmly placed points from 11 p.m. and the afternoon of oral interpelation. I remind you that tomorrow, after the 18th hour after the oral intervention, we will continue the negotiations with international treaties and reports that have been agreed. Thank you. Have a good evening.
