ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 62 and 97 of the House prints 508 and 272/ I open both points and find ourselves in a general debate. I note here a factual remark before I give the floor, in any event, the rapporteur will speak first. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It is not customary for me to be rapporteur for two laws, government and non-governmental, but the parliamentary initiative of fellow Members Vondráček, Válková, Igor Nykl - as I have already said, I will be very brief. It's kind of a subset. They deal practically equally strictly with the issue of smoking, but it's just a sub-law, they don't deal with alcohol and illegal drugs, so it's just a subset and it's practically just smoking, it's a strict law, so we want to deal with it more comprehensively, which is why we have all three elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u3	Thank you. I ask the appellant whether he wants to speak at the beginning of this point in the merged debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u4	Thank you. With the view of the board at the previous point and this, we can expect a very shady discussion, so I will not discuss long, I will not refer to statistics and studies. My colleague stood up for me very eruditely. I rather represent the more primitive wing of opponents smoking in restaurants not so much from a medical point of view, but like those who simply resent it and who do not want to change their clothes completely after every visit to the restaurant, and from this point of view I approached it from the beginning. I see the ban on smoking in restaurants, which is actually the subject of our proposal, as an important tool for combating smoking. When we ban smoking in restaurants, we make it harder for young people to start smoking, smoking stops being sexy, it stops being an attribute of adulthood in restaurants. I confess to envying foreign guests of restaurants. I've been taking inspiration from abroad and basically what they've had for a number of years, over ten years, e.g. in Ireland, so I would like to push through in this country. After I started studying the materials and sources in a little more detail from a health point of view, my first thought was always: How is it possible that we do not have this legislation in the Czech Republic yet? Of course, everyone has the inner limit, which is still freedom, and what is already disproportionate ingenuity of the state, somehow set. I'm not a fan of the state really regulating everything, but I think the ban on smoking in restaurants should not be the arena, the battlefield here in this fight, because the harmfulness of smoking is so indisputable, and that the tool works, and we have hard data for example. that Ireland, where the share of smokers has fallen by almost a quarter in the population, so the usefulness of this step and the fact that it is tried and we do not step into the unknown, are such arguments that the struggle for liberality and the struggle for everyone to have freedom of choice in all things cannot be argued in this case. Here you have to say, it's not the choice to have clean air in restaurants, it's the right of each of us. And it is also the right of each of these employees to have a clean and healthy working environment, which is a curious case in this country, where although other employees have the right to a clean working environment, so restaurant employees do not have them and basically smoking in this case has an exception from other harmful substances. And if you take how many different, sometimes slightly absurd, duties are made by restaurant operators as regards hygiene regulations, where they have to have special tables and rooms, and when you add up how many people die of smoking and passive smoking and how many people die of contaminated food in one of the restaurants, there's a clear discrepancy. I think that's another argument that can't be used. The third argument that is being used is an economic argument as to how it will be disadvantageous for those restaurants. Of course, I've had fun with a lot of pubs, they say: So do it and do it really out of one water, make one adjustment for all and without exceptions and we will respect it. I even got a call from a bartender asking if it would apply from January 1st, because he didn't want to buy and invest in a new air conditioner in a restaurant. I told him that unfortunately, the law was delayed, so I don't know if he's gonna buy it or not, but he demonstrated that the innkeeper has to invest more money in the painting, because that's where he has to paint more often in the restaurant, he has to clean it more often, and he has to use disinfectants, he has to invest a lot of money in air conditioning and air conditioning. And all of this is going to go away and it's going to have to be calculated. I'm done. We have hard data from abroad again. It did not happen in any of the countries where they introduced a smoking ban, that sales would fall, that restaurants would collapse in bulk. On the contrary, there was a slight increase in sales. Once again, I know from experience that if someone goes for a drink, they'll save the drink for a cigarette, maybe they'll have a half a drink more if it works. But if I add to that that, experimentally with my colleagues, we found out that he would normally have two cigarettes in one beer, and now he's only gonna have one, then so did my friends who smoke. In that restaurant, they're ready to go out and smoke 50 percent. In addition, I promised other friends who were waiting for our adjustment as a last impulse to quit smoking. So I intercede for all of these here as a plaintiff and join in with all the medical erudite arguments that have been made here by my previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u5	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. For the sake of order, I say that we find ourselves in a merged debate, paragraphs 62 and 97, where I note a few factual points. Mr Zavadil shall have the first point of fact entered. I don't see him anywhere here. Then we'll continue. Another point of fact is made by President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to hold back the long leads, because I think that there is room for expert and political discussions and impact studies in the various committees. I want to do an experimental demonstration. Mr. Health Minister, I'm very sorry, don't even think of it as disrespect or arrogance, but when I leave the microphone, I'll inhale one dose of my electronic cigarette and exhale it towards your nostrils. And then you tell us honestly whether you felt something or not. I am convinced that you have not yet passed such a test, otherwise you could never propose the same strict ban for electronic cigarettes as for those who burn and produce flue gases. I'm ready to vote in favour of a bill where I'm not allowed to smoke in a restaurant serving hot food. I admit my freedom ends where I blow smoke into the other one's soup, smelly. However, steam from polypropylene glycol water and nicotine traces, which has not been proven to be harmful, which does not stink, does not limit anyone. If you want to limit something like this, ladies and gentlemen, then you can't even cook in restaurants. Because fatty acid oxides that arise when they overheat fat undoubtedly smell much more than the steam from an electronic cigarette and are also more harmful to health. Thank you for your understanding and for this appeal and for the Minister's understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u7	Thank you. In any case, I would personally like you to do these experiments outside the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I thank you and we will continue to be duly enrolled in the debate. The first is Mr Martin Plíšek and Mr Leoš Heger will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Have a nice afternoon, dear colleagues. Let me briefly comment on the government proposal, the part of which is called anti-smoking law, because I realize that the law also contains protection from alcohol and other addictive substances. I want to say that if this proposal were voted on today, I will support it, because he, for the most part, can be said to be eighty percent, is based on the proposal that we prepared at the Ministry of Health during the previous parliamentary term when our colleague Leoš Heger was the Minister of Health. Nevertheless, I would like to mention some things here that we should possibly adjust at second reading, because I expect today, after a long, challenging debate, to release this proposal into second reading. There are things that we should at least accentate or think about. First of all, they're called. One-off events such as festivals, concerts, markets where I think it is so much wiser to transfer the regime in order to protect public order requirements to individual municipalities, which, as well as tobacco and alcohol and noise, know best how to adjust certain requirements. That means I would highlight the role of municipalities there, not some kind of land-based ban. And, of course, I stress that I fully support the basic intention of prohibiting smoking in restaurant facilities. It is also necessary to consider the broad definition of public catering facilities, such as: clubs, bars or in the future smoking shops, if set up in this way, fall within our definition and whether the scope of the ban does not mean that certain closed clubs and smoking shops will actually be created, which will be somewhat interpreted by the Ministry in their own way or bypass it. Because I think that emphasis should be placed on the food establishments. Similarly, the medical capacity speaks of the fact that the harmfulness of electronic cigarettes, unlike conventional tobacco products, has not been proven. Therefore, the question is whether to have such strict access to electronic cigarettes, but also to water pipes in tea shops. That's where I think the restrictions are somewhat disproportionate, too. I would briefly mention this because there is some kind of ideal alleged clash here about the fact that opponents of this law argue with the freedom of business. Free to decide which restaurant I'm going to. I would like to say that one principle says that one's freedom ends where the other's freedom begins. And why should smokers have more freedom than non-smokers? I do not want to argue here that non-smokers are two thirds and smokers are a third and I will mention here the current legislative state that we have in the Czech Republic. Restaurant operators are obliged to have separate smoking facilities. But we see what the reality is, when in one of the big rooms of the restaurant it says in one corner that there is no smoking. In another, opposite corner of the same restaurant and the same room it says there is a smoking part. Of course, smoke won't stop in the middle of that room. It is a typical Czech law circumvention, which already orders to have separate spaces. This law, which has also learned from a number of European countries, gives equal conditions to operators, for everyone. I think it's very important. I would also like to mention the experience of states that have introduced a ban on smoking in restaurants, because we are by far not the first state to try to do so, that the sales of restaurant owners after the introduction of this ban have clearly increased. Visitors didn't go there before. For example, families with children etc. So more protection of the non-smoking environment, of course - let's not forget the employees who work in restaurants who do not have much alternative in the labour market and the possibility to choose otherwise. I support for myself here that this proposal should be released for second reading, and I believe that we will possibly improve it at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read the two apologies that have arrived. Today she apologizes for the whole day because of the work activity in the region of Mrs Pavla Golasowská and today cancels her original apology for day 8. 12th by 14.30 Mrs Nohavová. We will now continue the debate. The next envoy is Mr Heger, and the next in line is Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the Government, Members of Parliament. I don't think I have to say that I'm one of the supporters of the complex bill. Given that the rapporteur here has widely forwarded some of the facts, particularly as regards health statistics, I will not repeat them. I'll split my speech in two. One will relate to the specifics of the fight against smoking, and the other part will then relate to the thing that reaches in that law towards drugs, which are not the main thing to be dealt with in this law. We have a number of other laws, but this law is still affecting them. First of all, tobacco. I think it should be recalled that in the fight against tabakism, access to adult and established smokers and access to children and adolescents must be divided. It is very difficult for adults to do so because it is known that once a tobacco addiction is very strong. It is often recalled that this is one of the strongest addictions that is very difficult to get rid of, and that is the approaching heroin addiction. So how to fight these adults - medical, psychological tricks and priceless. Prices work much more with respect to teenagers. Otherwise it is known that prices, on the contrary, prevent a little bit of the fight against tabakism, because despite the huge taxation that the state has brought, as has already fallen here, 50 billion crowns, profits for the tobacco industry are still huge and their resistance to smoking cessation is great. Interestingly, if we compare alcohol and cigarettes, the price of cigarettes is essentially unchanged and remains at real prices roughly the same extent of availability as it was 20, 30 years ago. It is paradoxical, because alcohol, like many other commodities, has a relative discount and thus increased accessibility. Dependent people are usually affected by information about health harm, but yet there are a number of smokers who are very annoyed by their habit or addiction, and up to 50 percent of smokers try to quit smoking. It is even claimed that a fifth of smokers are unsuccessfully trying to quit smoking several times a year, and unfortunately, most of them fail. On the contrary, experience from the United Kingdom shows that special anti-smoking counseling can have a very significant effect and can significantly reduce or reduce smoking in up to 10-20 percent of smokers. It should be said that smoking bans or restrictions or temporary reductions, temporary restrictions on smoking do not affect the long-term consequences of lung cancer in particular, but may affect current diseases. Smoking cessation is known to cause a very significant and rapid decrease in the incidence of myocardial infarction in smokers, and is used to intervene before hospitalization, on which, for example, surgery is intended, because there is a high cardiovascular burden and it is known that even under restrictions, temporary smoking, there is significantly less complications in smokers. Well, that's probably the adult issue. What everyone working on this issue is trying to do, influence and prevent children from smoking. All the measures that are in the law are aimed at this and are proven to be effective. One effective moment, unlike adults, is the price of cigarettes. It is known that, in spite of a measure, the price clearly repels younger minors and children, which brings normal medical efforts into disrepancy with the efforts of finance ministers, because, of course, the influx of money into the Treasury is very significant. So we can often hear the argument that a substantial increase in excise duty increases the risk of cigarette smuggling, which is certainly true and it is proven by economists, but on the other hand, it can be argued that cigarettes are relatively still cheap to the advanced European countries. There are many examples that affect children and all possible tricks of contemporary PR or marketing need to be used, because it is known that up to a tenth of smokers start smoking at the age of 13 years, so promoting a healthy way of life and sports can work here. In our country, what has already been said here is that the share of smokers who started smoking 15 years ago is rising and is now 60 percent. Thus, despite all restrictions on the sale of cigarettes to children and restrictions, 60 percent of smokers are recruited from children for 15 or less years. It used to be considerably less. So much for the financial stuff, I guess. I'm gonna stop by on some issues that concern public opinion polling. Young smokers, as is known, most often smoke in restaurants, bars and discos and various clubs where they smoke up to 65 percent of teenagers. Occasional smokers then smoke almost exclusively in these facilities, which very much encourages the ban to be as strict as possible. It's the same imperative as smoking in these areas bothers non-smokers and staff. It was also said that a number of young people, according to them, would not have started smoking at all, and this concerns up to 24 percent of regular smokers, or a quarter less if they had not smoked in the very club and restaurant facilities. It even involves half the occasional smokers. There's been talk of surveys among the general population. Up to 78 percent of Čech comment on the ban on smoking in restaurants. 61 percent believe that smokers restrict the freedom of non-smokers. And I won't worry about it any further. In children - I repeat - it is above all about influencing smoking in adolescents. You need to say a few general things at the end of this chapter. Smoking elimination is a kind of fight against smoking culture, and it has to be said that over the last 50 years, when we see this deep into history, this culture is really changing, and even these debates, which often led to the rejection of proposed measures and laws in the past, are definitely contributing to the anti-smoking atmosphere towards that non-smoking culture, whether the proposals are successful or not. Let me just remind you that, 50 years ago, smoking was common among doctors in the clinics right above the patient, that was no exception. Twenty years ago, it was very difficult to ban smoking in work organizations, and smokers fought back very loudly. It's much more natural today. Most smokers acknowledge that this is a matter that is not beneficial and that needs to be allocated to a particular space that is only for smokers. [[16.10 hours]] Let me talk about how things are going to be going down. We can discuss and convince ourselves here, but probably those who are fundamentally in favour of smoking in restaurants and who are fundamentally against it will probably not be convinced, so it will just be a defile of opinion and there will still be nothing left but a democratic vote. Let's see who wins this time. Of course, I hope those against smoking. But on the other hand, I have to say that given that the two groups, smokers and non-smokers, are very upset against each other and there are few tolerant smoking fighters, so when the law is voted, it is also necessary to act democratically and accept the result, whatever it is, to take a few years to take a break and then return to it if necessary. Now let me say a few more words on the drug issue. While the money involved in smoking is huge when it comes to the cost of society-wide, but it is compensated by the hypercompensated revenues that companies go through, so it is the opposite for drugs and alcohol. Especially for alcohol which is taxed, yields are less than social costs. This makes it very roughly the revenue of about 10-12 billion, income, no, the cost of 16 billion. The ratio is reversed than for cigarettes, and this is due to the fact that alcoholism is a major social danger and the risks of criminal activity, the judicial enforcement of various matters then exceeds the benefits financially. It's paradoxically even worse with drugs. They say the cost of drugs and alcohol is about 50 billion. All-social, but the state does not have and spends very little money on the fight against alcoholism and drugs, which can be loaded at about three quarters of a billion a year. Statistics say that the state issues about 230 million, the region 170, the municipality 60, from public health insurance to adictological services goes a little over 200 miles. etc. So it is no wonder that people who move in drug thesis are very critical of this and point to a number of shortcomings that are in the absence of drug ambulances, those AT ambulances in individual districts, etc., and I must say that in this case it is no wonder that there was an attempt to introduce a kind of fund management and a part of the proceeds of alcohol and tobacco to devote to preventive issues. I personally and of course any finance minister disagreed with this, so I personally welcomed it, because it was such a hidden attempt to increase the possibilities about three times, which, of course, is a very dramatic number in the current budget, and in the past it is known that when there was some sort of self-government of this money that went beyond the state budget, that it was not always ideal to use them, but on the other hand, I must remind you that about 700 miles. There is really little to do with this issue. Finally, in order to demonstrate that this law has certain deficits in the area of the organisation, and more or less raised the question in this first reading to the Minister, what was the intention in this regard, I must state that, in the first proposals submitted by the Ministry of Health, the area of prevention organisation and drug problem was conceived, including funding in three paragraphs, which represented about 120 lines of text, while in the definitive proposal passed by the Government, the issue is reduced to two paragraphs and a total of 19 lines in Title VII. So even the people of the drug scene are very complaining about that, and they're saying that the way that a partial breakdown of the alcoholic and drug scene has happened spontaneously, that the law doesn't bring much to the restoration of the scene, even though it clearly defines some things, for example, as seizures, is certainly a progressive proposal. That's all on my side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I have Mr Váňa's factual comment here. Before that, I'll read one more apology. On Thursday, 10 December from 9 to 11.30 for reasons of work, Mrs Marta Semelová apologises. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since I was unable to speak and was specifically addressed during the discussion of the draft agenda, I will now allow myself - of course, this law and my predecessor - to make just a small remark. A colleague here was talking about fighting smokers. I would just like to say that this does not apply to the European Union directive on restrictions on the possession of arms and that YES and the Social Democracy Club vetoed the inclusion of this item for a simple reason, as this inclusion will take place on the basis of the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs. It is better that this item be placed by the Organising Committee at the meeting than when we place it on an ad hoc basis. That's why we brought it in, not because the theme isn't important, although, of course, the main automatic and semi-automatic weapons can be smoked, but that's in a different context, not with this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u13	Thank you, too. We will therefore continue the debate now. Mrs Soňa Marková is duly applied for and Mr Jan Klán will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u14	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. In my speech, let me support the Government's bill on health protection against addictive substances, namely against the harmful effects of tobacco, alcohol and drugs. At first a few important numbers, although some of them have already spoken here repeatedly, but, as they say, repeticio est mater studioum, repetition is the mother of wisdom. Approximately a quarter, i.e. roughly 2 million adults in the Czech Republic smoke daily. The risk of alcohol consumption is 17 to 20 percent of the adult Czech population, which is 1.5 to 1.7 million people. [[16.20 hours]] Of this, between five and eight percent of the population are harmful, i.e. between 450 and 700,000 people. The risk of cannabis use is reported by about 3% of the Czech adult population, i.e. about 200,000 people. There's one percent of that at high risk, about 80,000. The estimated number of users of methamphetamines and opioids, especially injecting users, is about 45 thousand, which is half a percent of the adult Czech population. The situation in the use of addictive substances by children and adolescents is alarming. This is precisely why it is particularly important that we support this law. Up to a quarter of teenagers smoke daily or drink alcohol. This repeatedly puts us at the top of the list of consumption of addictive substances in Europe and the world. Of course, high levels of risky use of addictive substances have negative health and social implications. In the Czech Republic smoking is responsible for a fifth of all deaths, which is approximately 20,000 deaths a year. Smoking reduces life by an average of 15 years. Alcohol causes about 6 percent of our deaths, which, in turn, is about 6,500 deaths a year. Alcohol and tobacco are thus among the three most important risk factors in Europe that contribute to lost years of life as a result of illness and death. This corresponds to the social, economic costs in the use of addictive substances and pathological gambling, which in the Czech Republic amount to CZK 100 billion per year. Despite these frightening figures, this issue has little attention and insufficient funding is given to prevention and adictological services. This absolutely trivial situation also corresponds to the situation surrounding the negotiation of health laws against the harmful effects of addictive substances and any attempt to regulate the availability of tobacco and alcohol, including the extension of smoking bans and the ban on alcohol consumption in certain places or certain persons. It means that we must not forget an important fact when we discuss this law. Without preventive, advisory and therapeutic interventions with sufficient financial and personnel coverage, the positive impact of regulatory and other measures introduced by this law cannot be expected. It is therefore not okay that the government rejected the originally proposed State Drug Policy Fund. The state now devotes only approximately 230 million a year to solving problems related to addictive substances and pathological gambling, tens of millions more are coming from the regions and municipalities, but less than 50 million crowns per year are going to prevent smoking, the risk of alcohol consumption or problem gambling as such. I see the big problem that Čech are much more tolerant of alcohol and other addictive substances than other European countries. So far, so-called shortsighted winners have always been. the economic interests of health protection primarily for children and young people, i.e. immediate income to the Treasury over many times higher, long-term impacts on the health and social system. Most myths can be found around the ban on smoking in restaurants. The Czech Republic is the last country of the European Union, where there are virtually no restrictions on smoking in restaurants and restaurants. In 2009, all former restrictions were abolished, no restrictions at lunchtime and no obligation to separate premises apply. Instead, labels have been introduced that have an informative function. There is no doubt that tobacco smoke has a negative impact on human health, whether it is active or passive smoking. On the other hand, the impact of smoking bans on the economy of the sector concerned has been examined in many countries around the world independently of more than 165 studies. These were presented in 2009 by the World Health Organization. It was clearly demonstrated that this ban had no significant economic impact. In my opinion, concerns about the depopulation and the collapse of land are unfounded, and also according to these studies. This is shown by experience from abroad, for example studies from Norway between 2003 and 2007 or from Great Britain from 2014. According to the findings of IPSOS and the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Karlovy Vary of 2012, a three to five percent increase in visits to restaurants can be expected based on a comparison with foreign studies, and according to a qualified estimate, smoking ban could bring up to CZK 6 billion in sales. The positive effect of improving the health of restaurant staff is not negligible. Numerous studies, about 45 studies from 33 countries, also indisputably demonstrate the positive impact of non-smoking legislation on improving the health of the population as a whole, in particular, the reduction in mortality and hospitalization rates in cases of coronary events and heart disease by 15 percent, strokes by 16 percent, respiratory disease by 24 percent. Research by Charles University and IPSOS also showed that 78% of the population of the Czech Republic wishes to ban smoking in restaurants and 41 percent of smokers would agree with the measures. At the same time, the share of citizens who would welcome the said regulation is growing. It was 35 percent in 2005, 70 percent of the citizens in 2011. Although the Czech Republic forbids the sale of tobacco products to persons under the age of 18, children and young people are allowed unlimited access to smoking areas. The ban on children and youth entering restaurants and bars would certainly be absurd, so the only possible step to protecting their health is the ban on smoking in these facilities. This is where most smoke and also started smoking before the 16th year of their age. In fact, a quarter of regular and half of casual smokers, in their own words, would not even start smoking if the smoking ban were to apply. What to say in conclusion. Just words spoken by experts at a seminar organized by the Health Committee, which was devoted to the issue of addictive substances. Cigarette is the only consumer goods that, if used correctly, causes death. The only thing that really works in the complex is high price, non-smoking rooms, single pack of cigarettes, absolute prohibition of advertising, treatment of addiction and consistent prevention. Dear colleagues, let us finally find the courage to put health ahead of profit and accept this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u15	Thank you, Madame. Mr Jandák will now make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have long sought the courage to say the opposite of what my colleague has said here, the shadow minister of health behind the KSČM. [[With emphasis:]] I will vote against this law! And now I'm going to take a very look at the petitioner. It's not funny, Dr. Nemec, Minister of Health! What have you put forward? You have told us here - later, a colleague of Krákora, the rapporteur - how you want this nation or the citizens of this republic to be healthy. And all you're gonna do is fool smokers, which is 34 percent of people. How is it that there is no measure in that law, a ban on consumption of, for example, fat meat? How many people die of obesity? No, don't laugh, it's the facts, colleague! Another thing that has threatened this nation since time immemorial, and it is very dangerous. Like kisses! [[Laughter.]] How many billions of microbes are transmitted during this short or long intercourse! What have you done against it in the law!? Nothing! And I'm not gonna go on. I'd put in precautions, for example... [[Waiting]] ...to have intercourse once every three years and only because of the birth of a child! There's a huge risk! [[Laughter.]] HIV positive! How many billions of them are in the world today. You know, I'm sorry, but seriously. This is about one thing. What you're launching is the beginning of the end that might sound like we're going to say, "We're going to heal these people if we had to kill them!" That's your law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u17	Thank you. I have two factual points here. Mr Vácha, Mr Heger, has the first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With your help, Mr Jandák: Yes, that was a nice performance, funny. [[Mr Jandak's response from the bench.]] Funny maybe for--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u19	I beg you not to shout at each other, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u20	- for the rest of the House that applauded you, but it was just completely out of control. We're not talking about it -- yes, we're partially protecting the smokers, but we're also trying to protect the non-smokers. Because those smokers are bothering and threatening the non-smokers. That's one thing. Second thing, about kissing. It's a natural immunization. Natural immunization is needed to protect our population. That's about all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u21	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Heger. Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. I am not being funny here because I do not know how to do this mostly, but I would like to say one thing to Mr Jandák through Mr President. It was said a long, long time ago that there was a study that 10,000 microbes were transmitted during a kiss. Not the billions he says. And on top of that, you have to kiss so that you can squeeze at least half the microbes out of the 10,000. [[Laughter. Let's hear it.]] Perhaps Mr Jandák could practice this. And if I have one more second, one minute, I would say, of course, regulation is usually justified by preventing one person from harming one another. But I think there are examples of regulations that are a little bit beyond that level, and that they're also legitimate. I always say that one of the toughest examples of state regulation is the need to send children to school. That's regulation that we all agree on, whether we're liberals or conservatives, or right or left, because at least at the teaching of children, if they didn't go to school - because we just don't want analfabetes here. And then there are regulations that we're more or less agreed aren't entirely beneficial. For this we had a test in the form of helmets during skiing and other sports. We're having a debate about the rest of them, which is where they belong, whether they're very important or useless. And all we can do is vote, and there's no point in getting mad at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u23	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u24	Good afternoon. I will only briefly respond to Mr Jandák, who I very much appreciate, but through Mr President I would like to say to him: Of course, everything cannot be regulated. I, frankly, am not much of a proponent of regulation. But, unfortunately, if we want to protect our health in some way, we also need to introduce certain regulations. On the other hand, if we want to resign for health protection, we can ban any gatherings. Because even breathing in enclosed spaces is very risky.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u25	Thank you. Mr Klán, now duly applied for, will be prepared by Mr Vyzula. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u26	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Your Honor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to jump into an area called. Anti-smoking law. I did this analysis a year ago when the first anti-smoking law of the ANO movement was introduced here. I have had some analysis of anti-smoking laws in the European Union, in individual Member States. I will show you in these examples what regulatory or non-regulation options we can use to keep from saying that we are the last country - the last EU member country, where we do not restrict smoking in restaurants, bars, hotels in any way. Generally, in hotels, the vast majority of EU Member States allow smoking in certain hotel rooms or smoking is allowed to be considered by the owner. Some Member States also allow smokers to reserve a percentage of the hotel space. In Finland, for example, it is 10%. Furthermore, several countries - Bulgaria, Cyprus, Austria - prohibit smoking in hotel rooms. Next we'll look at restaurants and bars. The rules for smoking indoors are amended depending on each EU Member State. The absolute ban on smoking is virtually without exceptions Bulgaria, Ireland, Hungary, Macedonia, Malta, Greece, Spain, Great Britain and outside the EU, it is Turkey. Total smoking ban except for separate smoking plants which must meet certain conditions - Belgium, Finland, France, Italy, Cyprus, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden, Norway and Iceland. In the remaining EU Member States, which is the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Luxembourg, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Austria, Romania and Slovakia, Serbia and Croatia, smoking rules in closed indoor areas are adapted individually. And now let's look at each country in more detail. Belgium. Restaurants, bars, hotels and accommodation facilities are prohibited with exceptions. A smoking room with suitable ventilation shall be designed. The smoking room must not occupy more than 25 percent of the total surface area of the equipment. Any service provided is prohibited in these rooms and customers can only take their drinks with them. Bulgaria. There is an absolute ban on smoking. Czech Republic - this has been mentioned before, so I will not repeat myself. Denmark. Restaurant, prohibited with the exception of smoking rooms or cabins. Bars, also in Denmark - smoking is not allowed in areas greater than 40 m2. Except for smoking rooms or cabins where food and drinks are not served, small bars with a restaurant area of less than 40 m2 may allow smoking, hotels and accommodation - in hotel rooms it may be decided whether guests can smoke inside. Smoking is prohibited in public areas except smoking rooms or cabins. Estonia. Restaurants and bars, smoking allowed outside the dining establishment or in proposed smoking rooms for smoking only. Hotels and accommodation - Smoking is prohibited in all closed public spaces except for proposed smoking rooms or zones. [[16.40 hours]] Finland. Restaurants and bars again - smoking is allowed in separate ventilated smoking rooms, where no food or drink can be served or consumed. Smoking is permitted in a maximum of one of the ten rooms for accommodation in hotels and accommodation facilities. Notwithstanding the number of smoking rooms, a maximum of three rooms may be allowed for accommodation. France. Restaurants and bars - smoking is permitted in separate ventilated smoking rooms, smoking rooms must not exceed more than 20 per cent of the surface of the hospitality facility and must not exceed 35 m2. Staff and minors are not allowed to enter smoking rooms. Smoking is prohibited in hotels and other accommodations except for separate ventilated smoking rooms, just as it is in restaurants and bars. In Ireland there is an absolute ban on smoking, hotels and accommodation in restaurants and bars - smoking allowed in specially designed hotel rooms. Italy. Here at all the above mentioned restaurants, bars, hotels and accommodation facilities smoking is permitted only in separate ventilated smoking facilities, which cover less than half of the total area of the facility. Cyprus. Again prohibited with the exception of open indoor or outdoor spaces. Lithuania. Restaurants and bars - here is an absolute ban, but there is one exception: smoking is allowed in specially based private cigar and pipe clubs where serving and consumption of food and beverages is not permitted. In hotels and accommodation facilities - smoking in individual rooms is the choice of hotel management. Smoking in public public areas of the hotel is prohibited except for smoking shops. Again - Latvia, restaurants and bars - again absolute ban, hotels and accommodation - smoking allowed only in designated hotel rooms. Luxembourg. Here it is divided quite extensively. Restaurants - there is no smoking in restaurants and teahouses except for smoking shops which cover less than 1/4 of the total area of the facility and are not allowed into them to juveniles. Bars - no smoking at the time of serving food, dinner time, with the exception of smoking shops that cover less than 1/4 of the total space, so as for restaurants. And in hotels and accommodation facilities, the employer is obliged to ensure the protection of his employees from passive smoking, which implies the establishment of smoking facilities. Hungary There is an absolute ban on smoking except for cigar lounges in hotels. In Malta - restaurants and bars - absolutely no smoking, hotels and accommodation - no smoking except approved smoking centres. When we look at Germany, restaurants and bars - there is a smoking ban mostly allowing separate smoking rooms, there are exceptions to small businesses that do not serve food. However, the full ban on smoking applies in the territory of the Länder of Sárska, Bavaria and North Rhine-Westphalia. In hotels and accommodation facilities in Germany, employers are asked to effectively protect their employees from tobacco smoke and its health risks. If necessary, the employer must issue a general smoking ban or allow smoking only in dedicated workplace sites. The Netherlands. Restaurants and bars - no smoking except for separate smoking shops without operators, the exemption from smoking ban is granted to self-service bars with a space of less than 70 m2. In hotels - no smoking except marked smoking places. Now we look to a larger state, Poland. Restaurants and bars - no smoking except smoking rooms used only for smoking. For devices where there are at least two rooms, one may be referred to as smoking provided that it is ventilated and smoke is taken away so that it does not enter other rooms. Serving food and drink is allowed here. Hotels and accommodation facilities - there is once again a smoking ban, except in Poland, smoking rooms used only for smoking, and the owner of the facility may decide to allow smoking in individual rooms. Now, let's take a closer look at Portugal. Restaurants and bars again - in a space less than 100 m2 the owner may allow smoking provided that the smoking area is clearly marked, physically separated from the remaining parts of the equipment or has a separate ventilation system or has direct ventilation to the exterior, which is equipped with an air extraction system. On a space of 100 m2 or more, the owner may mark 30 per cent of the space as smoking. In the case of a separate closed room of up to 40 per cent, provided that the conditions set out above are met and that the space does not interfere with parts of the facilities reserved only to employees or to places where employees are present at all times. In hotels in Portugal, the owner may allow smoking provided that the smoking area is clearly marked, physically separated from the remaining parts of the equipment or has a separate ventilation system or has direct ventilation to the exterior or is equipped with an air extraction system. Hotels may mark a maximum of 40 per cent of the total space as smokers provided that the above conditions are met. And now to Austria, where I too took an example, because we are historically connected with Austria in some way. So Austria, in restaurants and bars, is forbidden again smoking with exceptions - in areas greater than 50 m2 separated and completely closed smoking rooms that cover a maximum of 50 percent of the restaurant area intended for guests, if smoking is prohibited in the main area of the facility. Rooms consisting of one room between 50 and 80 m2 may allow smoking if the owner can prove that the division of the restaurant into a smoking and non-smoking zone is prohibited by legal safeguards. A device less than 50 m2 can decide whether to be fully smoker or not. Pregnant women must not work in areas where they could come into direct contact with tobacco smoke. Youth work under the age of 18 must not prevail in rooms where they could be exposed to tobacco smoke. In hotels and accommodation facilities again there is a ban with exceptions - smoking rooms allowed, but they must guarantee that smoking will not be bothered in anti-smoking zones if smokers have their own office, which does not come into contact with clients. In Romania, restaurants, bars and accommodation facilities - smoking rooms must not occupy more than half the floor and must be equipped with functional ventilation equipment. In the case of equipment less than 100 m2, the owner may authorise smoking with a clear marking. In Greece: In Greece, there is a total ban on restaurants, hotels and accommodation facilities, but in bars - smoking is allowed in entertainment companies over 300 m2 with live music. In Slovakia, this is again permitted with exceptions, namely: restaurant - smoking allowed only in separate smoking plants, which must not cover more than 50 per cent of the total area of the equipment; bars - facilities where no food is served can decide whether or not to allow smoking. In hotels - no smoking in places where non-smokers work. Slovenia. Restaurants and bars - smoking allowed only in separate smoking shops for smoking only. No consumption of food or drink is permitted in smoking shops and must not cover more than 20 per cent of the total area of the equipment. If the company does not have a smoker, there is an absolute no smoking on the inside. Hotels - smoking allowed in designated hotel rooms. Spain. Restaurants, bars - absolutely no smoking. And there is one exception. Smoking is permitted only in private smoking clubs for members only, which must be established as a legal entity, shall be non-profitable and shall not be used for the sale of any goods. Minors are not allowed access. In hotels - smoking can be reserved up to 30 percent of hotel rooms. [[16.50 hours]] Now the last two countries, first Sweden. Restaurants, bars - smoking is prohibited in all food serving facilities, such as restaurants, bars, cafes and so on. Smoking is permitted in outdoor areas with operator or separate ventilated smoking facilities where it is not permitted to bring food or beverages. In hotels and accommodation facilities, smoking should be prohibited in a certain number of rooms in hotels and other temporary accommodation facilities. Permanent residential accommodation is exempted from smoking regulation. And now Great Britain. I think she's got it all worked out the hardest. Restaurants and bars: absolutely no smoking. Hotels and accommodation facilities: smoking allowed in a certain amount of hotel rooms. I have tried to show you, ladies and gentlemen, on this example of the analysis of individual Member States of the European Union, how they regulate smoking bans, that we do not have to go the way of a complete, absolute ban on smoking. I'm not a smoker, but I think it's up to everyone to decide whether they're going to a restaurant where they smoke or not. I also go to smoking restaurants, but also non-smoking. Of course, I understand that there is quite a lot of emphasis on this today, on protecting public health, but we must be aware of the problem of rural pubs. I come from the country. There he could, I'm not saying that it will mean a total ban on smoking means their disposal or some way of ending it, because I can't imagine the regulars who go there going out, going to smoking shops or anything backwards. But it is only my opinion, my view, but I was rather trying to show you how the countries around us and other countries of the European Union are regulating it. We can take a certain example of their regulation here, and in some way I would be leaning towards partial regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u27	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador, for your comprehensive analysis. And now I have two factual points. Mr Jan Zahradník and Mr Jiří Koskuba are the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u28	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we are divided by this proposal across the party. I wonder what reason the petitioner has - of course, a compulsive desire to protect the health of both passive and active smokers. I also tried to do this a long time ago as Director of Gymnasium. I have issued a ban on smoking in all areas of the school and its surroundings and at events organised by the school. I still didn't succeed, octaves and septimans went smoking outside the school space, so I defined the space to ban smoking to all the places from which you can see the school building. I still couldn't make it. Of course, they continued to smoke. I'm so worried that active smokers won't be able to turn away if they don't want to. I'm just wondering if those of us in our society have the need to regulate our fellow citizens are going to think of something when their intentions have failed completely, that people are still smoking. They're gonna implement a law banning smoking at home? And if they do, how will this law be controlled, his compliance? Will there be any checks looking at the windows, visiting the household, smelling if there was smoke in the apartment and the house? Minister Brabec is trying to do something similar, trying to introduce a law allowing him to enter his home and control what he is drowning in his boiler. I think in the future, our followers could get a similar idea and control the people they do at home. And that would be the end of a free society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u29	Thank you. Another registered comment is Mr. Jiří Koskuba. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really won't keep you long. I do not intend to limit you here at all to discuss this undoubtedly media-interesting law. And I've already taken the liberty of speaking to him here. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard some long lectures about how smoking is harmful to health. As a doctor, with all due respect, I can't deny it. However, if we continue to discuss here more and more, and perhaps until early morning, we will not change one fact that smoking really hurts health. We all know that. And the lectures aren't gonna change that. At the same time, I doubt that there will be a few people who would say that this is a restriction on freedom. Please, it's a restriction, because as long as we claim how harmful this habit is, and we don't ban smoking completely, and I'm skipping alcohol, then our behavior is actually hypocritical, because we're just moving those addicted people somewhere else. But I repeat, once again I have not heard that the crown of the ever-increasing excise duty would go to the Health Department, and so on, and so forth. Let us continue our hypocrisy. Let's continue with it late into the night. As a doctor, however, I would like to draw your attention to one fact. We have a lot of points, and as is customary, I'm sure you're voting after 7:00. Nothing else can happen here. As a doctor, please note that long-term sessions are at risk of thromboembolic disease. If we have public health, let us also have our own and try to reach our goals quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u31	Thank you. I have two more factual points here. Mr Stupčuk and Mr Kalousek have the first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to speak to the rationality of the debate in order not to see whether smoking is harmful to health or not. A healthy person may not even doubt that. Just smoking is bad for your health, and let's think of it as a thing that's definitely built. But what we should be discussing here is a level of law, that is, how and how much the state should intervene in personal freedom and regulate whether a person can smoke, where he can smoke and where he can't. I understand that the value of the law is the protection of public health. I think that, as proposed by the law, we would not have to go to an absolute ban while maintaining and achieving this objective of protecting public health. A lot of states have been appointed here. I don't understand why we're going through this absolute ban when, in principle, 34 percent of the population that are smokers can be accommodated and separated from non-smokers. I really don't understand, and that's what I want to know. The state is being hypocritical here, that's true. And that's what bothers me. On the supply side, he does everything he can to ensure that people can easily get cigarettes anywhere, so he makes money very easily and successfully on it, but on the other hand, 34 percent of the relatively significant minority here exudes unprecedentedly from public life without having to do so. Because, of course, there is a subsidiary solution in the form of constructionally separated spaces where smokers can consume their cigarettes while not being excluded from public life. I don't understand. I would like to ask the petitioner, Mr. Minister, why we are taking such a draconian measure. And I'd like to appeal to everyone to realize that there are a lot of our family members, a lot of our friends, friends, parents, and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u33	Your time. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kalousek has now made a point of fact, after which Mr Zavadil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u34	Thank you for the floor. With all due respect for all the arguments, the reservation of hypocrisy formulated by both of my previous speakers is based, in my opinion, on the mistaken premise that the legislator here wants to protect smokers from their habit. He's not that naive. He knows they're gonna smoke somewhere else. He wants to protect non-smokers from the harmful effects of smoking that they can't resist, which he already has some logic. Even for activities that are proven not to be harmful to health. For example, as far as I know, exposure is not harmful, yet it is banned in restaurants and evaluated as at least a misdemeanor. And the intention of the law's promoter is for smoking in the restaurant to be as nicht salonfähig as the exposure. I understand him here, and I'm ready to support him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u35	Thank you. Now, the MP has Zavadil. Mr Novotný will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u36	Good evening, Mr President, dear colleagues. I had a technical note before, but my friend and colleague Jarda Krákora scared me so much that I had to go and get my head together a little bit, because when he read everything here, how harmful it was, I admit that I was a perplex. However, I can give you another argument. Recently we saw and heard that Helmut Schmidt, former Chancellor of the Federal Republic, lived to 96 years and smoked 40 cigarettes a day. 40 cigarettes a day! We can say that this is an exception that confirms... [[Screams in the hall, followed by laughter.]] Yes, thank you to my colleague Kalousek for the clue. My grandfather lived 90 years and smoked 50 a day, my father had 88 years and smoked 50 a day. I don't want to question all the research, I just want to say that the law we're discussing has one flaw. I'm up for letting him go through his first reading. I am. I'm not the one who's proposing to dismiss the law. But I think we should think about what we're gonna do with some village pubs. There's thousands of pubs here, and I used to work in that one, even way beyond my time, where the villagers go to have a whirlpool, a cigarette, a card game. And we're gonna forbid them to smoke? Well, I'm curious about that. So, as always and in everything, we need to take our senses into our hands. That's why I want to release this law to second reading so that we can talk about a possible regulation in the committees that would be reasonable in relation to these country pubs and perhaps the electronic smoking that my colleague Kalousek demonstrated here. Everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u37	Good evening, Mr. Ambassador, I must ask you to observe the time to make a point of fact. Allow me to read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies before we continue with the other factual remarks which I now have five. Apologies to Mrs Balaštíková from 17.30, from 16.20 Mr Jiří Koubek, for reasons of work Vice-President Bartošek, who has been here so far, and from 16.00 p.m. Minister Marian Jurečka. We continue with the factual remark made by Mr Martin Novotný. Mr Stupčuk and then Mr Birke will be prepared for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have time to make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u38	Good afternoon to you and me. My colleague Kalousek here used an example that we are also not tolerant of naked people in the pub. Undoubtedly not. On the other hand, we do not prevent them from freely deciding that all those who agree to be naked will meet together and maybe have a good meal or a good drink at the same time. The problem with this law is that it is so strict that it forbids absolutely in a very sharp line. I would like us not to think in the next readings, in the amendments, of course, that there are various adjustments in European countries that give smokers some space so that their habit doesn't just become their own personal things, but that, if necessary, they can meet socially in this habit and maybe spend some evening together in this habit, where they could eat well, and they could do it not only at home. My favorite rock band from the United States, where there is also a trend in spreading good at all costs and forcing everyone to behave healthy, sings a verse: Sometimes I feel like lighting a cigarette right under that banning sign, because it's getting on my nerves. That's how I see it, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Stupčuk. Mr. Birke will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u40	Thank you for the floor. I am, too, confessing to following up on my colleague Novotný, not really understanding President Kalousek's argument. But I would like to say at the same time as the debate. There's always a restaurant down here. I don't think there's smoking in a restaurant. It just doesn't belong there. I'm sure no one's questioning that. You're supposed to eat in a restaurant. On the other hand, I think that in the pub really family has nothing to do with children. I don't think children belong in the pub. And here I'd like to help myself with some historical interpretation. It's just that the pub had a history of getting that beer, playing pool, smoking, playing cards. At least that's how I perceive what a pub is and what a social purpose it has done in the past. So I'm just trying not to confuse the terms of the restaurant and the pub. I hope no one will talk about restaurants here as a place where they would have an idea discussion about whether or not to smoke there. It's just not supposed to be smoking in there. At the pub, I think he does. I have my reasons. And please, let's talk about it. But the situation is much more dramatic, because if there's an absolute ban on pubs and cigar lounges, discos and so on, then you'll want to take the cigarette logically before the business. Right? Because that's all you have left. But do any of you know that if the community adopts a decree, you won't even have one before the business? So you guys are gonna be happy to buy cigarettes, the state is gonna tax you like the right pimp, but then it's gonna shut you out of public space, and it's not gonna give you the opportunity to smoke that cigarette with dignity as a taxpayer, a decent person. [[Punching your fist into the speaker's desk]] I really think it's unfair!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to Mr Stupčuk. Mr Birke's point of order now. Mr Antonín Pavel will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u42	Thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to introduce myself. My name is Jan Birke and I'll tell you one statistical figure and a story at the same time. Twenty-three years I was a smoker. I've smoked 50 cigarettes a day for the last five years. That's right. I have witnesses for that. On the 13th of July, my first blood vessel clogged. Follow-up surgery. Mr. Secretary, I can't imagine how much the operation cost. I'm just guessing. I'm not saying it was only from smoking, but certainly from what I had at my disposal, and according to doctors and professors, it was definitely one of the four factors, which was definitely smoking. As time went on, after about three months another clogged blood vessel, and I don't know how much the other surgery cost, the subsequent recovery and the subsequent treatment process, including medications. I have to say, this is a real story that's happened. And I'm a witness to that in my own example. I just want to say one thing. Anyone who can tell a smoker to quit smoking like that today will never make it. [[The speaker snapped his fingers]] I'm a beautiful example. I'm not going to talk about whether or not this is a restriction on freedom. I just want to say one thing. One thing you know is how a smoker gets him to quit smoking? I'll tell you. It's fear. It's fear. And I'm July 13th... [[Attention on time.]] I'm gonna quit. Last sentence. I'm sorry. I got that fear. And I haven't smoked in five months since. Wish me luck. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u43	Mr. Pavel. [[Antonin]] Mr Kučera will also be prepared for a factual remark. Please, gentlemen. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u44	You know, we've heard stories here about how 90-year-olds live and newborns who haven't been smoking are dying. We learned about the rights of smokers to smoke their cigarettes freely. We learned about poor people in small village restaurants who won't be able to smoke their own cigarette. We learned about the differences between the restaurant and the pub that there should be smoking in the pub because those kids aren't supposed to be there. But the whole problem is that passive smoking threatens you almost as much as active smoking or very much the same. And those smokers are 30 percent, or a third, and they're putting two thirds of people at risk completely. What is the right to endanger two thirds of them? Where do they have that right? I don't think they do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u45	I thank Mr Pavel Antonín for his time. Mr Kučera as the last one with a point of fact, and perhaps we will continue with the debate. Mr Vyzula is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u46	Hello, thank you for your word. I would just like to respond briefly to my previous speaker, Mr Zavadil, who unfortunately is no longer here. He's been talking so sentimental about the village pubs that these gentlemen are gonna go out there for a whirlpool, a cigarette, and a beer. But I'm a little out of context why only those gentlemen in the villages should have that opportunity. Why can't they go to that restaurant like this in the cities? If they have any demands on these villages than they do from the city. However, I would like to say one thing. We're not in charge of smoking, we're not in charge of smoking. These are the steps that will enable us to actively fight against smoking. Today we approve one crucial thing, and it is called a ban on the operation of restaurants, a ban on smoking restaurants. That's what we approve of today. This has nothing to do with smoking bans. We forbid businessmen to run smoking restaurants. That's what this is about. Let's call things real names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u47	I thank the honourable Member for his time. And now the rapporteur's factual point. It's limited to two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u48	Dear colleagues, there was a delegation of people who worked in hospitality a year ago behind me. And those people, non-smokers who work in hospitality, they're about 20,000 in the Republic. And they said, "Please do something about it." We're over 20,000, we work in hospitality 10, 12 hours a day, and we don't stand a chance. We only smoke passively every day and we don't want it. So that's the look of people who have to work and have to be in that environment again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u49	Thank you. Now Mr Rostislav Vyzula, Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. I ask the House for peace! Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Probably few of you would count on me not getting off tonight. I'm a doctor and oncologist, and probably most of you assume I'm gonna have a professional lecture here. But I won't. Most of the professional data has already been said, and you will find more on the Internet. We will discuss the next - I hope that this proposal will pass on to the committees, so we will discuss it on the committee. I'd just like to point out some of these interesting things. First of all, those who say that the discussion is long. So don't interrupt it with factual remarks that aren't even factual remarks, and we'll just focus on the debate, there's still eleven speakers, and we'll be able to, if someone's busy, we can finish in time. As far as Mr Jandák is concerned - I do not see him here, apparently he needs him, apparently he's on the smoking terrace, I don't know, but in any case I would like to assure him that there is a study that shows that kissing increases immunity. And that's basically due to endorphins in the brain. So he doesn't have to worry about anything and he can keep kissing. Just so he doesn't worry about being banned. Then I would like to say to the people who said here, and it was Mr Zavadil, through Mr President, about 90-year-olds and 80-year-olds, etc. [[turning to Mr Zavadil, standing at the rapporteur's table]] They also smoked in my family, they lived to be 90 years old, but these are people who have exceptionally strong genetic material or have very good immunity. And those are exceptions. We're here to protect everyone's health. And then there's this comment about the comments, and I know it's for the newsletter, but I took the liberty of making a few of these comments about us banning smoking restaurants here. I don't think so, for God's sake! We want to protect health and not promote business in this style! We want to protect health, that is the purpose of this law. I know this thing isn't easy for that reason, just like it needed to be... Mr Klán here, through Mr President, has said all possible restrictions, limits or permits that are in Europe. I know this matter in the Czech Republic will not be completely easy. But I would like to point out the seminar that took place in 30. 11. with the participation of the WHO here on parliamentary soil, where it was said that we basically do not know what impact this will have on the number of smokers and on the consumption of tobacco products. Because we can estimate, extrapolate, from other countries. For example, in Ireland, smokers dropped by 12 percent, in France by 12 percent, but in the Netherlands it was already around 20 percent, in Norway 40 percent, in France around 14 percent (?). And the problem is, we're somehow culturally set up to have everyone here think that the reduction is only going to be 5 to 7 percent. And I'm offended. That we wouldn't be so cultural that we wouldn't understand the impact of smoking on health? I firmly believe that it will be much more. Your time as a cigarette, it was a kind of image. It was said that even in medical clinics there was smoking. Yes, it's true. I even remember the beautiful story of Šimek and Grossmann. As I learned to smoke, where it was right at the beginning: No matter what you say, let your mother wipe her tears, a cigarette like a camel's hump belongs to a perfect man. And as it turned out in the story, we all know. They all threw up except for two, I think, Zázvor and another one who were supported by the family. But we're on! In that time, it was simply discovered that the image of the cigarette was not. It's bad for your health! There were examples of life. Cardiovascular disease, heart attacks, pulmonary disease, cancer. And you may not all know that lung cancer is still being bowed, yes, of course, lung cancer and bronchitis and the ORL area. But you don't know exactly all the information that smoking contributes to an increased incidence of cancer, such as esophagus, stomach, pancreas, bladder and kidneys. In the presence of kidney cancer, we are first in the world! And we keep asking what it's in. Somewhere they say it's in the water, but we're not interested in smoking. Electronic cigarettes have been mentioned here, and here I would like to say to President Kalousek through Mr President, I would like to say to him that, of course, studies can be found which show that electronic cigarettes are not harmful. And they're not even studies, they're just shady sayings. But on the other hand, studies can be found that prove that electronic cigarettes are harmful. And why that is. It's that there are hundreds of manufacturers of electronic cigarettes, we don't know exactly what's in them, there's heavy metals that are clearly carcinogenic, we don't know what they're gonna do, and there's not a single study that shows clearly what those fumes do, how harmful they are. [[17.20 hours]] Here I would like to say one such interesting thing about the past when we started talking about smoking and the harmfulness of smoking in the world. Probably the first to do so in the United States in the 1950s, where a professor named Graham made clear evidence of epidemiological studies that smoking was harmful, and then, in the late 1950s, the tobacco industry itself conducted several studies to demonstrate the harmfulness of tobacco, tobacco smoking, and waste. It simply happened in the United States that until 1965 there was an increase in tobacco consumption, and in 1965 certain bans began to apply at once. You've been talking about bans, what it's like to restrict freedom, and freedom ends where the other person starts, etc., or it starts where the other person ends. Okay, but it turns out in the United States that once the bans started, with advertising and others, and what is needed in this law, has happened and has been rapidly declining since the 65th year. Strangely enough, the excise duty that I think was applied in 2009 in the United States - the increase in excise duty did not lead to a sharp decline as before. It is clear to us that, in essence, this law will not completely eradicate tobacco smoking, that is understandable, but it is the first step towards returning to Europe. We may be talking about some mitigations, but I personally think it should be as hard as possible, but certainly, as has been said here, there will be such proposals, but without that, we probably would not have returned to a civilised Europe. And I wish I could, because they and the people around us already want it, and they want it too much, it's seen from the polls, and even the guys in our garage told me when they were talking about pubs, how they were talking about pubs, so they said to me, "We were in a pub and there we were arguing whether tobacco smoking would be banned or not, so when is it going to be? Because the innkeeper himself said to them, "Whether it is or not, from 1. 1. there's a non-smoking pub. And basically, he's gonna do it because he sees other examples where the person who introduced the non-smoking pub ended up making even higher profits than the one who only has the smoking pub. I won't, of course, tire you of other professional things. I think we're on the right track from a human point of view, and I believe this will all work out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u51	I thank Mr Rostislav Vyzula. We have two more factual points. Mr Michal Kučera, then Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u52	Thank you for the floor. I listened carefully to the previous speaker, Mr Vyzula, there must have been a number of expert arguments, even some very frightening ones. After listening to him, I have one basic question. Why don't we ban smoking? Why don't we ban the sale of cigarettes? Those arguments are totally scary. Why are we banning businessmen from running smoking restaurants? That's a completely ineffective move. I ask why the previous speaker has not submitted a bill where he will actually ban the sale of cigarettes, where he will put cigarettes on the same level as other drugs. Since we also restrict drugs, we also forbid smoking marijuana, we forbid the use of other light drugs. Why don't we put tobacco on the same level? Why are we taking this hypocritical step of banning businessmen from running smoking restaurants?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u53	Thank you. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u54	Thank you. I'm just making a brief remark on Professor Vyzula. I'm still approaching this law by protecting non-smokers, not by deterring smokers. If otherwise, I will reconsider my approach to this bill, which I am prepared to support. If we protect non-smokers, the logical thing is that those smokers will continue to smoke. Then the comment on electronic cigarettes, through the President. Ambassador, I didn't say it wasn't harmful to those who inhale those couples, but I'm prepared to say that there's really no evidence of any harm to other participants in the neighborhood, where the concentration of the exhaled steam is so traceable that the fatty acids from the burned fats from the kitchen are much more harmful than the fumes from the electronic cigarette. You yourself have spoken here several times about the harmfulness of tobacco smoking. This isn't even smoking or tobacco. This evaporates the polypropylene glycol solution in which some nicotine concentration is dissolved. It's not smoking. And if you forbid that, too, in the anti-smoking campaign, it's ideology. I would very much appreciate it if we could deal with this problem in a factual, non-ideological way and protect those who deserve protection, i.e. non-smokers who don't deserve to be blown into their face by smelling smoke. If you forbid electronic cigarettes as part of an anti-smoking campaign, you commit ideology and that does not belong here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u55	Thank you, Mr Kalousek, for keeping time on the point of fact. Two more factual points. Mr Petr Adam and then Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u56	Good evening. I'm not going into any deeper controversy about the harmfulness of smoking. I guess no one can doubt that, and I'd just be crazy to try something like that. However, if we propose a ban on electronic cigarettes in this law, as my previous speaker Mr Kalousek said, it is a vaporization of polypropylene glycol, and if we also ban this, then we must ban all discotheques, we must ban the theater performances, because precisely this filling is part of all the smokers that are used there, which our young generation likes to have as effect. So we have to go really far, we have to comply with the law, and all these productions have to be banned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u57	Thank you, Mr Petr Adam. Mr Štěpán Stupčuk also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u58	Thank you. I would also like to know the answer to one question, and now I am addressing especially doctors and translators: how does a smoker threaten a non-smoking person if the smoker smokes in the constructionally separate part where he does not come into contact with the non-smoking person? I'd really like to know. Because if you don't, then I don't understand why we're not going this way, insisting on the strict department. I mean, there's a way to deal with that in personnel custody. Either I pick a staff who's a smoker, or I can work it out on the job that it's gonna be unattended. It certainly seems a lot less invasive with the rights of that quite numerous minority of 34 percent of the people I'm serving here now for the absolute ban on social segregation, with exclusion. So I'd like to know where there's this connection, and why we're not going strictly to the smoking and non-smoking department, because that seems the most interesting thing to me. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u59	Thank you, Mr Stupčuk. My colleague Kaňkovský will wait, Mrs Miroslava Němcová has signed up for a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u60	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just talking about the term hypocrisy that was said here. If we're talking about the fact that the law is intended to affect those who threaten non-smokers in particular, so we want to protect non-smokers, I think that each of us adults, as a lifelong non-smoking person, I can make a reasonable decision whether to go to a bar, a pub, a restaurant, a restaurant, whatever we call it, a beer house where I smoke or don't smoke, and no one will threaten me if I don't want to. [[17.30 hours]] But if we want to play the part where we care about the health of the nation and are therefore at risk, smokers are threatened by non-smokers, so please tell me how we will take care of the segment of those who are most at risk, i.e. children of parents of smokers in families. When I go to the pub, I decide. I'm either going or I'm not going. If I'm a responsible parent, I certainly don't drag kids into bars that are smoked. To a pub where they smoke one after the other. But what are we going to do to protect the health of these children? That is why I think this bill that is coming is quite hypocritical. I'm saying I'm a lifetime non-smoker. I don't question medical studies, professional studies. But what my colleague Vyzula said about the fact that entrepreneurs are figuring out what demand is and introducing non-smoking restaurants simply because it brings them a better benefit, a better profit because they hit customer demand better, so I think that without the law this way is far best.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u61	Thank you for keeping time. A colleague of Kaňkovský. And before he comes, I will read two apologies received, Mr Jiří Junek, at 5 p.m. and Mr Vojtěch Adam, at 6 p.m. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u62	Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Minister, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues. Today, so much has been said here on the margo of today's present laws, that is to say, the government, so-called. the anti-smoking law, and the MP's that I will try to shorten my speech, although I am a doctor, I am the father of four children, who is experiencing situations from a slightly different perspective than the one mentioned here by Mrs Němcová through Mr President. Because it's not always a parent and kids who already say on a trip, so when are we going to lunch? And we experienced it recently here in Prague, where for about the eighth time we found a restaurant where we could actually eat without tobacco smoke at lunchtime. So it's not that simple in practice. But I'm going to try to take out just the notes that didn't come out here, or the ones that might have been heard here, but from a slightly different angle. I am sorry that the Government's bill introduced here today by the Minister is, in the debate that is currently being heard, almost exclusively limited to the ideological, political and perhaps sometimes personal struggle to regulate or regulate smoking in some way. And I say in public spaces. For me, it is absolutely unimaginable to regulate smoking in households. I really don't think that's possible, and I can't even imagine it. But, of course, the media also pierce one area, which is whether to regulate or not to regulate smoking in public areas and especially in restaurant facilities. Here I have to say that both I myself as a doctor, as a person, and the KDU-ČSL club support this regulation, although it may seem like an intervention in some personal freedoms. What I would like to look at a little bit more closely in terms of government law is the area of drug prevention, adictological services and some related matters. I also want to say that I am very glad that we finally managed to push through today that we are discussing both the norms, both the government and the MP, because, as the debate has shown today, we are going to reach the end of the legislative process in the government proposal - I fear that we will have a few months of hard work to do. So I would like us to be able to at least do something for our citizens and adopt, in a much shorter period, at least the MP version of the bill. Now to specific notes. In the Czech Republic, we do not only have a problem with the fact that we are growing, or at least the number of people who smoke does not fall. There's talk of two and a half million people today who smoke regularly. What is very important is that we are growing the number of children who smoke and we have a big problem with teenagers. What is even more alarming is the situation with drug addiction, where at the moment we have somewhere around 45,000 proven drug addicts and of them a large majority are so-called. Troubled drug addicts. What is even worse is that we are actually growing a curve in children and adolescents. And we have to admit that the statistics available to us are usually merely an estimate of the reality as it is. That is why I believe that if there is something to be dealt with substantially more deeply, it is precisely drug prevention. And here in this context, I am sorry that the original bill, which was already mentioned here by colleague Leoš Heger and Mrs Marková, has finally dropped out of the establishment of an integrated drug prevention state fund. For the KDU-ČSL club, I mean, we don't care if the fund exists as such. I don't think that's that important. I can even imagine certain risks that may arise from the creation of this fund. However, I consider it essential that we can properly coordinate drug prevention and obtain adequate funding for this prevention. And here I would like to call on both the Minister and the Government to deal intensively with this problem, and I suppose at least on my own behalf - I will very much like to lead this debate in the Committee on Health, because this is a practical matter that experts in the field, especially the adictologists, draw attention to. They also point out that coordination activities are being disbanded in the government bill. And we know from a number of counties, from a number of regions, that drug prevention is no longer at the appropriate level. Maybe I wouldn't forgive a few numbers here. According to the latest addition of adictological services in 2012, we lack a low-floor program of low-floor centre in 21 districts, medical ambulance for addiction treatment in 37 districts, substitution treatment in 25 districts and special treatment program in 61 districts. Detoxification beds then in 55 districts and in two regions. These figures merely demonstrate that the prevention of drug addicts, especially in young people, needs to be dealt with very intensively. There is a similar situation with addiction or the issue of alcoholism, where too, and it has already been said here and there is no need to repeat the numbers, we belong to the unflattering first places within the EU. And as I can say for myself, I always regret seeing an adult who is addicted to alcohol is often a terrible sight, but even more so I am sorry if I see a child or a youth who already have a significant problem with alcohol consumption. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club welcomes the government proposal, but welcomes the parliamentary bill as well. I would like to intercede for the two proposals to be released for second reading and very intensively, and especially for the government proposal, to be discussed within the committees to which it will be assigned. I'm assuming that the Guarantee Committee will be the Health Committee. As far as the funds mentioned are concerned, here I would really advocate that the government should deal with this problem in cooperation with the competent drug prevention authorities and seek, on the one hand, sufficient funds and effective use of them. Finally, let me express my wish to throw away ideologies in this very important matter for me, to throw away some of our personal antipathy, and to prove to our public that we care about the health of our population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u63	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Mr Petr Bendl will now prepare Mr Jiří Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, let me also say a few words about the law, the name of which is already the Health Protection Act against harmful substances - but we have the Public Health Act, which is such a special institution. What exactly is public health? I think we all have our own health and my health certainly does not belong to the state or the county or the community, it is my property, if you want, which one should naturally take care of. We want and propose that the important problems that are in society, in this case smoking that is harmful to health, and that is probably verifiable, we probably agree on this, but to solve it for the state of the restaurant owners and pubs by banning them in their homes in quotation marks, but also in fact, because how many times it really is in their home, because the pubs or restaurants belong to them, so that they are not allowed to smoke in their homes because it threatens health. Well, I think the doctors present would confirm that people are dying of overeating, obese, and, as a result, they're sick. Then they also die from drinking too much and drinking too much alcohol, and so if we approach everything by the same principle, we would say that we should ban not only smoking in the pub, but also food, and we should also ban drinking there. That would probably be the best thing, because that would actually protect the public from all the ills that are here. I think that there is a solution, but there isn't much courage to talk about it, including doctors, including the Chairman of the Health Committee, and that is the motivation of people to live healthy. And if they don't live healthy, drink alcohol or excessive amounts of alcohol, smoke or smoke too much if you want, then they should simply contribute to their treatment. Then the health system should deal with this situation, not the system of organising restaurants or pubs. What you're suggesting, that seems really out of order. Like washing our hands by doing a lot to stop smoking in pubs, but it doesn't remove the essence itself. And in the harmfulness of smoking, we could really focus on people who are responsible for their bad health that others pay for, for example, overeating or overdrinking. That's what I think the health system should detect. As I point out, we should not blame smokers for their health care being expensive, because this may not be the number, but from tobacco the Czech Republic has an income of approximately 50 billion crowns per year, because it is one of the best agricultural commodities for us the most lucrative agricultural commodities in the Czech Republic. The income from tobacco sales is about CZK 50 billion, and according to the figures that I remember two more years ago, smokers cost us approximately CZK 11 billion. So there's some room for what the KDU-ČSL colleague here said to make sure there's enough money to prevent it, there's definitely, and there's something I'd support. Prevention towards young people, explain to them harmfulness etc., and repression in quotation marks I would see in that I would force anyone who wants to smoke to smoke, but then contribute to the specific health care that he will have to undergo. That seems more fair to me than to tell the innkeeper what they allow or do not allow in their space of business and which they offer to the public. It's not an obligation to go there, it's a right, and I can always decide whether or not I'm going to the restaurant or the pub. Some of the specific details that are in the law, because I feel like not everyone really read the law. Here they talk generally about the harmfulness of health, but there are some nonsense in the individual sections that I'm going to try to name here. § 8 - it is prohibited to smoke and it is prohibited to use electronic cigarettes - letter. (a) in the public freely accessible interior area, except for a building-separated space reserved for smoking in the interior of a building connected with public transport. Well, I guess it's gonna work at the station, but in a pub that has a separate space for smokers and non-smokers, it's no longer possible. I guess it doesn't work there. Strange attitude. Point (j) - in an indoor entertainment area such as cinema, theatre, exhibition and concert hall and sports hall, as well as in another indoor area during the organizing of cultural and dance events. The sports hall is a broad term. If that's part of it - because I'm convinced that the law will go around anyway, that the innkeeper will just say that there's a private private event going on right now, and if anyone wants to come in, they'll have to accept that they're smoking inside, and that's how it's done. And I don't know what it's gonna be - how are the municipalities gonna control it, by the way? There is another paragraph that says that smoking regulation is extended to the authority of municipalities to issue a binding decree, and there it is - and I quote: "The municipality may, by a generally binding decree, prohibit smoking and prohibit the use of electronic cigarettes to - letter (a) - open to the public if this action is accessible to persons under 18 years of age. That's pretty much all of them. I imagine Prague and its city police will sort it out. But how will it be dealt with in our country by Dolní Bezděkov or Cousinice or other small municipalities, or which event they choose, that is not allowed on it, and on this one they can, please, smoke, because it is a public event under the open air - I note, it can be, it is not - though here - and I will read it in another paragraph - there is also limited space in which smoking is prohibited. For those of you who think that's what you're gonna do in front of a pub or in front of a restaurant, if you want, I know from practice what it was doing in our housing estate, where when smokers didn't want to be in a restaurant or a bar and they wanted to come out, what kind of trouble it was that everyone was complaining about the neighborhood, that they were making noises, that they could go in the pub and not cause any trouble. I think this final is gonna lead to the fact that they're really gonna shut down the pub eventually. But in that section 8 and in Section 2, taking - like this - in § 2 The definition of terms is an internal space where smoking is prohibited, is an interior space enclosed by a roof or ceiling and at least two walls, regardless of the type of material used for the roof, ceiling or wall and whether the structure is permanent or temporary. If you want, it's actually a tent, or it could be a tent that has a roof and two sidewalls, but you can't smoke there anymore because it's already a public space in which we forbid smoking. Well, those festivals are gonna look good, people are gonna love you! And some effects, smoking that you want to prevent, so tell me how. What nonsense you wrote in the law, it's absolutely unbelievable. I am convinced that smoking and the harmful effects of smoking are to be fought, that it is to be in the health system, and that the harmfulness of smoking is not to be addressed in this state by the innkeepers, but by the health system and its financing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u65	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Mr Milan Brázdil's factual comment now. Then we'll continue with Mr. Colleague Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u66	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, simple question: What is life? Allegedly, life is a sexual disease with 100% mortality. As a paramedic, I know something about it. Two and a half thousand wanted dead people. And it doesn't matter if you smoke, if you drink alcohol. Please, let's end this discussion. Come express your beliefs, let it go to the reading or not, let's vote. Technical - I'm very much interrogating myself for that. And then you'll discuss it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u67	I thank the honourable Member for an interesting challenge, but I do not know who will take advantage of her from the debate. Mr. Mr. Štětina is duly logged in. A colleague of Kolovratník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u68	Good evening. Mr Vice-President, honourable Government, honourable Members, I feel here as an adictological conference, where we have heard many interesting lectures that have also taught me, not just in terms of medicine, but also in terms of economics, and then we have heard a few so as not to be rude, political talk - I would like to say it differently - which are completely unnecessary. I'm not even a puritan or a non-smoker. I liked my colleague Birke's contribution very much because I was in the same situation in 1975, and I stopped smoking because of fear. So I know what it's like to smoke. That's my first point. Second point. I am very pleased that my colleagues prepared the draft Parliamentary Law first. I was very curious to see what law the government would prepare. I must say that I am very pleased with this law, because it is not only about smoking, but about all addictive substances. Now, allow me very briefly, I don't like to talk here and I don't like to talk politically anymore, but I have to go back a little bit into history. When I was still an honest doctor for very little money, in 1987 as a paramedic in charge of emergency services, because I couldn't be in charge, no one could afford it in my position, so I found out how many percent of the trips he had been taking. It was 4.1 percent of the exits. I quote, it was just alcohol. When I did the same statistics in 1993 at the same workplace, but already as director, this number was 8.4 percent, but it wasn't just alcohol, it was, of course, drugs. And I have to tell you that if a doctor in a medical emergency exit group is to assess whether it is alcohol poisoning or drug poisoning, that is a very difficult situation, and this doctor can always get into a state where lawyers will chase him. With this unhappy situation, which, of course, is escalating, I would not want to repeat here the law that I really like, the concept of the law is good, but I would like to turn to the end of this law, which concerns how to deal with drunkards who abuse health services who make calls or their surroundings call them without their knowledge, the ambulance has to arrive there and find that the person is totally drunk, so there are clearly defined sections, as the health service can generally proceed. And I'm glad it's there. I'm also glad that there is a description of how to do the detention station. Even there, the law enforces a replacement. That's okay, too. And so I'm finally asking, and I'm really worried about it, but I'll be glad when the minister says, "We know how to do it," and I will, of course, compliment him on how we're going to enforce it when the health service is abused by general drunks and junkies. I don't know, because there are always different circumstances, that the person could be sick and he wasn't, that he couldn't judge, or that he called in a neighborhood that wasn't medical. That's all I'm worried about. Otherwise, I think the law is good, and I will personally vote for it, knowing that I will have several enemies in this very important room, because they are smokers that I respect, of course. Where's your nest, little bird? He's probably out there somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u69	Thank you, Mr Štětin. Now, Mr Martin Kolovratník, Mrs Pecková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u70	Mr President, thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, good evening. It's a nutritious and long debate. There's nothing to blame for the media's interest. But it didn't make me contribute in a few words to the debate, even though I think it might be a little pointless, because it's obvious that we're divided into two irreconcilable camps here, and it's hard to hope that someone changes their mind or shifts their minds in some way. But I feel that what I have to say is important for it to be said. I would now like to thank Dr. Štětin, the speaker, because my position will be the same as his, because I am co-signed under the second version of this proposal, that is, under the shorter, one-thirds version of the motion to ban smoking from the workshop by our colleagues from the ANO movement. And why I want to ask for your support, virtually. considering your opinion with those of you who are against it so far. Please, colleagues, let's take our senses into our hands. It really seems normal and normal to me. Let's look at the civilized world. I, on the one hand, understand these arguments from above all my colleagues on the right hand side of the spectrum, I also consider myself a liberal person, I do not like any regulation, restriction of business, restriction of personal freedom, but in this case it really is an exception to me and I see the situation in a completely different and completely opposite way. I'm sorry that with a number of colleagues that I otherwise like and that I often agree with, there's a different opinion. But that's the way it is. And what am I going to lean on? I have remembered three specific examples relatively here and from a distance, which prove that not smoking in restaurants is really normal without any further reflections and debates around it. Example one - a small village of Velena in our town in Pardubick, from my constituency. I spoke to the mayor of the village last night, Mr. Krejcar. It's a village with less than 500 inhabitants, some 450, and he said, "I think it's normal as mayor. Go see our restaurant tonight. She's smoking, dirty, smelly, and a lot of people don't go or don't want to go." On the contrary, those non-smokers, which according to statistics - this has been said today - between 65 and 70 percent of the population, do not really stand a chance in that small village, they have nowhere else to go, they have no choice. This is the first example from a small village. The second example is from farther away, from British Glasgow. Scotland, the Skot with their national nature as it is. I was there about three or four years ago. A classic Scottish pub, a restaurant where whiskey was drinking, dancing, playing music, and for all the visitors of the restaurant it was perfectly normal that they - it was December - ran out, had a cigarette and ran back in, ran back to have fun. And no one was wondering, nobody thought it was weird, demoting or restrictive. It's normal for the Scotsmen. And example three, and for me, I must say, the strongest. It is an example about two months old - Oktoberfest in Munich. Maybe you were on it yourself, or you know it from the media. Thousands, tens of thousands of visitors, giant tents, where Bavarian music plays, beautiful costumes, gorgeous German peasants with these tuplaks, really great fun. On Oktoberfest in these tents, they have something called Raucherbalkon - I don't speak German, I speak English. Again, it is normal for those visitors to run out for five minutes, smoke and return to a clean environment. Please, let's take our wits into our hands. I don't really find it weird or abnormal or restrictive. I believe that people, citizens of the Czech Republic, will get used to this and that it will be normal for them. Please, let us not invent complexity, let us not look for various loopholes and debates about various restrictions on business and personal freedom. Believe me, it's not like that. If, as the House, we agree on a reasonable wording of this law, I am very simply for a general ban on smoking in restaurant facilities, so the citizens of the Czech Republic will thank us for this and I believe that they will appreciate it very much. So, once again, let's take our wits into the hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u71	Thank you, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Now, Mrs Gabriela Pecková, Mr Rom Kostřica will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u72	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Before I get to my own contribution, just through Mr President, a very small but very important mention of Mr Jandák's speech. Please, he's been talking about intercourse every three years. I would really strongly warn all the gentlemen about this, because, as we know, low frequencies and irregularities are essential in the development of prostate cancer. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] [[18.00 hours]] I would be a really bad doctor and a bad MP if I did not draw attention here to aspects that have not yet been mentioned in the context of smoking. At all, I have the impression that the public is unfairly neglected by the cyclic citruline peptide, and yet it is very important and very interesting. Rheumatological diseases, the inflammatory ones, aren't fast killers like cancer, but their basis is the same. It's a failure of immunity. In addition, they are systemic diseases that have their extracranial manifestations and affect a number of organs. They're lungs, hearts, nerves, eyes, skin, and others. [[There's a lot of noise in the room. Members don't listen at all.]] May I ask, Mr President, for some peace?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u73	Yes. I can see it. If someone is discussing a subject other than health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances, please do so in the foyer, including those who have priority rights. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u74	Thank you very much. After many years of dialysis and plasmapheresis, which, by the way, is not a cheap issue. But I'll get to the costs. Because we now know perfectly reliably, it is the medicine based on evidence that a person who has a high percentage anti-lemon antibody in his genetic equipment will develop rheumatoid arthritis, in its very aggressive form, with complications and very poorly responding to treatment. And that brings me to the cost. Patients with rheumatoid arthritis usually live a long time, and because it is a disease treatable but not curable, such a patient will undergo a range of different forms of treatment since diagnosis from oral swallowing tablets to parenteral, i.e. injection and infusion medication, whether outpatiently or hospitalized. Usually, rheumato-surgical performances from small arterioscopy with or without the application of drugs into the joint cavity, whether they are steroids or, for example, very expensive radioactive Yttrium. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] This joint disease eventually ends with a replacement joint, but there are a number of other orthopedic procedures. Then, when the extra-cranial complications come along, it gets complicated and the treatment gets expensive. Next up is rehabilitation, spa treatment. And the drugs that we have at our disposal are very expensive. It's called. biological treatment, immunosuppressive agents and medicines known for example since oncological diseases. Although these medicines significantly reduce indirect costs due to good efficacy, they make up an even more pronounced item than the direct ones. Patients require hospitalization at a more advanced stage or during complications. For their disability, they are excluded from the work process, they are usually granted a partial, later full disability pension, their social and family ties are falling apart while becoming permanently dependent on the assistance of the other person, so they receive a care allowance, they are entitled to purchase a vehicle - and I could continue this way for a long time. But bottom line, the annual cost of a rheumatoid arthritis patient according to world parameters is $10,000. The argument that a smoker earns excise duty on cigarettes may not stand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u75	Thank you, Mrs Gabriela Pecková. Now, the chairman of the Social Democracy Club, Roman Sklenák, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u76	Thank you for the floor. I would like to come up with a procedural proposal on behalf of two parliamentary clubs, social democracy and YES 2011 in order to vote that today we will also vote on both territorially and procedurally on all proposals even after 19 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u77	Okay. We will vote without debate. But I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. I'm going to ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide in the vote number 103, which I have begun, and I ask who agrees that we act today after 7:00 p.m. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 103 of 124 present for 79, against 24. The motion was accepted. Let's keep going. We continue with Mr Kostřica's proposal, which is signed up. Mr. Vácha has applied. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u78	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I wouldn't want to pretend that I was able to hear everything carefully this afternoon, but I was impressed by several reports. I would not want to recapitulate this in any way, but nevertheless let me say that Mr Krákora's first contribution convinced us all with a huge amount of statistical data that smoking and alcohol are harmful. I think that's the basic thing to sound. Furthermore, what Professor Heger points out was that it is not only direct harmfulness, but that it is basically, that there are still a number of other negative factors associated with these harmful consequences on human health, whether it is a question of the overall health of the nation or the like. Next - If I ignore such an enormously long and in my opinion unnecessary passage about individual states, which differ according to how smoking or non-smoking is prevented there, it is interesting, but rather for someone who is going to travel to some country in some way and is prepared for better or worse. But it was also a fundamental contribution from Professor Vyzula, who stressed that it is not only a matter of harmfulness in terms of direct contact of cigarette smoke on his own tissue, such as lungs or upper airways, but that it is mainly cancer damage that affects other organs. Perhaps for such additions that may have been neglected by the professor, it is considered that carcinogens contained in nicotine smoke and other substances dissolve relatively well due to alcohol, are introduced into other organs where they cause cancer. It is similar in the increased incidence of urogenital tract cancer, especially in urological pathways, since there can be considered that those carcinogens that are excreted in urine are concentrated both in the kidneys and then in the bladder, and it is shown that in men where the prostate is enlarged and where there is an increased or prolonged content of the urine in the bladder due to poor emptying, the incidence of cancers is much higher in the smoking population. What has also been said several times was whether electronic cigarettes are harmful or not, if they are less harmful or more. I think that it is too short a time for us to actually say that they are less harmful or harmful. I firmly believe that any study can currently be ordered that tells you that electronic cigarettes are harmless, the second study, the opposite, perhaps at the same price, will tell you that they are extremely harmful and that you should rather smoke ordinary cigarettes. [[18.10 hours]] It is undoubtedly, and it has been said quite little, that the consequences of economic, catastrophic and health are contrary only to the advantage that tobacco companies benefit from it. We need to get an idea of this if we look at how much the profits of tobacco companies are made, on which any state is then very well fed, that it collects VAT. This is, of course, one aspect that we should not forget. In my opinion, the question of these electronic cigarettes is only a question of the future, which will show us whether it is really harmful or not. One such small interest is that there are some 8 or 10 kancerogens described in cigarette smoke in common cigarettes. On the contrary, there are up to 300 of them in the exhalats that one breathes in with those electronic cigarettes. It's hard to tell if they're really harmful or not. I'm sure it'll be disproportionately more complicated than that. Another thing that was very interesting here was that, I think, mentioned in particular by Mr Krákora, that there is the dependence of young people on cigarettes and alcohol. You may think I'm crazy, but there was also one suggestion that would in a way protect the future young generation, where we would say, say, let's put some straight line, in English it's called deadline, let's say 2015 when it's said that those who are born after 2015 wouldn't be allowed to smoke. If this had happened and it had actually been applied this way, after 15 to 30 years, we would have a population of relatively healthy, young people who never smoked. Because I am firmly convinced that quitting cigarette smoke combined with alcohol is much harder than not really smoking. I know it's a utopian thing, but I think he's been dealing with it, even though it didn't go into a referendum, one of the Swiss cantons, where it was thought that people wouldn't be allowed to smoke from a certain year of birth. I'm sure it would be kind of limited to someone who's 20 years old and isn't allowed to smoke a cigarette, the 50-year-old could smoke, but without such an impact, it would definitely be favorable. If you'll allow me another little, really short retrospective memory. I've been dealing with the treatment of head and neck cancers basically my entire professional life, and I can tell you that in the past, we had a lot of larynx carcinomas. That's where the smoke really breathes in. I remember in the '60s when profesor. Hladký, the chief of the clinic at the time, first operated on hypofaring carcinoma, that's near the larynx, but where it's only a swallow route, we all came together to see how it operates, what kind of tumor it is. I can tell you that we are currently operating two or three tumors of this kind a week. So there's a huge increase. This larynx cancer is such a strange trend that there was a certain incidence and we learned that if it is a patient over 30 years of age and is a man smoking and hoarse, it is a danger of suspected cancer. This doesn't even apply anymore. For one thing, we don't have 30 years, we have 15-18-year-olds, or teenagers who have larynx carcinoma. And it's definitely not just men. Back in the day we learned about it, that was 50-60. For years, smoking cigarettes in women was very rare and it was more like that - more like the effect. Gradually women reached this trend very quickly, they reached the "happy" limit of those men, so basically there is the level, or the incidence of the tumor in the respiratory area is the same for both women and men. Which, statistically speaking, can also be proven. But now, just remember one more thing that is currently reducing the net incidence of respiratory tumors, those of the upper airways, those that are in contact with their own smoke, but we have an extraordinary increase in those tumors where there are swallowing pathways. We have one explanation for that. That's where the cancers - the cancers in the breathed air, that's where the smokers, they combine in the same area with the swallowed cancers. And that's either alcohol or-- or we have to admit that we're here at a time when the greatest incidence of tumors in the population that still experienced the era before 1990, when the field was whitening not by snow, but by chemical means in the middle of summer. So the chemization and all the other stuff that we were forced to swallow here at the time, I don't want to say that we ate trash with forgiveness, but you know the level of nutrition was miserable, so it's manifesting itself at the moment and we have a very high incidence of these tumors. Let's also realize one more thing that it makes a difference whether the 20 cigarettes are smoked by a gamekeeper who walks all day in the woods in a clean environment eating eggs from some chicken or shooting some pheasant from a clean environment, or if it's the one who smokes 20 cigarettes and moves in Ostrava, in the city, in Prague or where there's plenty of flying dust and the environment is terribly harmful in itself. So, from my point of view, I would definitely support in any way, even though I have smoked a whole series of cigarettes in my life, so I would like to support any smoking restrictions, whether passive or active. I think we should be absolutely consistent not only with ourselves, but with the younger population that will take our place here one day. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u79	I thank Mr Rom Kostřic. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Jana Lorencová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u80	Mr President, colleagues, we have listened here - I don't know, maybe there were 15 speakers, maybe 20, others are signed up. And I have one question. I'd like to know how many of us sitting here, during these arguments for and against, some very funny, how many of us have changed our original mind during the afternoon we've spent our time on this. How many of you - how many of us have chosen to vote in a different way than they had been decided before - before all of what we've been through here to this point. I dare say neither of them, it's just another lost afternoon. Another one of those series of afternoons we've seen here before. Another lost afternoon. Another argument demonstration that nothing, absolutely nothing, will affect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u81	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová, for keeping up with the point of fact. Now, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk, also on the point of fact. Before I give him my word, I will state an apology when Mr Daniel Korte apologises from 17:00 and 7:00 p.m. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u82	I'm sorry, but it didn't make me react to my previous speaker. Just don't be mad at me, but we're here to have this discussion. And democracy is a debate, even if it is slow, inefficient. But it's the most valuable thing we can give each other here, and that's why we're here. And discussion is never a waste of time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u83	Thank you. We continue with Mr. František Vácha. A colleague Martin Lank will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u84	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I have already made a point of fact once. However, I had a longer contribution prepared, but it's already 18.19 hours and basically we've heard everything. We know the House is divided into two camps. One is for the adoption of this law, the other is against the adoption of this law. [[18.20 hours]] Then we have a small subset that's against electronic cigarettes. I therefore belong to a group that supports any proposal to restrict smoking. I'm in that group that thinks it's not a law to ban smoking, but it's a law to protect non-smokers. It's called the Government Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of addictive substances. So I'll skip what we've heard. To Mrs Lorencová, through Mr President. I don't think it's lost time. I've learned a lot of interesting things. I've been listening to this all along, unlike maybe you, and I've learned a lot of interesting things from both the opponents of this law and those who support it. We had an interesting study here about where, in which state it works. It was long, but it was interesting. And maybe to make it short, I would have a question about the petitioner or the rapporteur, because I suppose they're on the same side as me. [[A note from the news desk.]] Okay. Yes, we are on different sides, but we may be on the same side with regard to this law. You're saying in the explanatory memorandum where it says that smoking restrictions in food services are being imposed on you, that you are leaning towards option four - a total ban. And in Section 8 letters. (k) it is written: it is prohibited to smoke in the internal premises of the food service establishment, and the food service is defined in Section 2 Definition of terms as a food business where a food service involving the provision of food is operated. I see a certain problem there that if they want restaurants or maybe not restaurants, but if they want to avoid this, they just won't serve food because the definition of food is given by law, whereas the definition of food is nowhere. That means, I'd be afraid that some of the devices would happen to say, I don't know, we haven't been serving food since eight o'clock, and we can smoke in our house. If you didn't focus on this, and somehow you didn't actually narrow down the definition. That's one thing, a contradiction of food and food. There is one more thing I would like to say to the opponents of this law. The benefit of this law is a social dimension. You drive these people out of the pub and they meet outside the pub. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] That's how it really is. There are sociological studies from the UK where these people are more satisfied, because when you sit at a table in a pub and you want to talk to someone from the next table, mostly a man - a woman - a man, most of the population doesn't have the courage to do this. But if you drive them out in front of the pub, you're like, "Hey, you got a light?" And they're on the phone. And the social dimension of this is really proven, and there are marriages, and there are already marriages that arise from the fact that these people met in front of the pub, that the law chased them out of front of the pub. [[Odds from the diaper.]] Mr. Jandák made a call on me. I don't know if it's for or against...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u85	Ambassador, I will interrupt you and ask my colleagues not to shout, and if they want to join the debate to come forward, or if they want to say something, then through the President. And I ask the House to calm down so that Mr Vácha can properly complete his debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u86	I'd close my maybe a little humorous liner, but it's true, there are marriages like that. And then there's the second part where I have a problem, and that's drug policy. In Section 29, i.e. in Title 7, there is talk of drug policy, and today the local authorities are setting up drug coordinators, and you have in the law that they can establish. They have to be set up today. [[Nesroz. a comment from the rapporteur's desk.]] I feel like they have to, but look at it, because if they could, they could avoid it at some levels, so if you wouldn't look at this issue too, that they have to or can, or maybe they've been ordered by law, at least at regional level, so that drug policy has more weight than it has so far. Yes, regional and national level. That's right. That's all I'm saying. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u87	I thank the honourable Member and we will continue. Mr Lank now with his application, Mr Radim Holeček will be prepared. [[Signaled to report to the messenger. Benda.]] Aha! I've been cleared of your application, my colleague. [[He doesn't insist on performing.]] Okay. Of course I won't miss my colleague Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u88	Thank you. I wasn't sure I'd have to put anyone first. Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I am a little sorry that there are some things in the government's proposal that seem quite meaningful to me, but there are things that I simply cannot support no matter how hard I try. I have prepared the documents relating to the draft law of Parliament, but in a number of cases it is identical. For starters, I admit I'm a smoker, but at the same time, I admit that it bothers me to smoke under my nose when I eat. I still want to appeal to your common sense in deciding this proposal. Only a few things I've heard recently about so many purposefully chosen half-truths, or even lies, probably according to the rule that a hundred times repeated lie will become the truth. Many of them have also been mentioned here, for example, that the Czech Republic has become the only EU state that does not regulate smoking in mass caterers. That's not true! According to the applicable regulation, the operator of the combined catering establishment is obliged to indicate at the entry into it whether it is non-smoking equipment, smoking equipment or equipment with reserved spaces. Well, I see regulation in that. And even if that were not the case, the fact that someone else is doing something else or something else, such as the European Union, is not yet an argument that we have to do it too. And while we are here with foreign experience, according to my information, the Dutch government has decided to abolish smoking bans in bars and cafes after two years and smoking has been allowed again in bars that are not more than 70 square meters. Croatia has repealed the smoking ban even four months after the introduction of the ban because of the hard protests of bar operators and restaurants, which significantly reduced turnover after the ban was imposed. If the banners say they're having trouble finding a non-smoking restaurant, I'm saying the opposite. I'm getting a lot harder and harder to find a smoker. Go see any shopping mall, how many restaurants and cafes there are smoking and how many non-smoking. Come out here in front of the parliament. You're not going to succeed with a cigarette in the vast majority. You may argue that this is only in big cities, but I have similar experience with small ones, and statistics are true. After all, I myself come from a village with about 600 inhabitants, and even where I know you won't light at least two restaurants. And while we're at the villages, do you really want to send the guys from the mariah, from beer tonight, to go out for frost? Because it's another widespread mistake that the ban only applies to restaurants where food is served. No, it concerns the area where food is served, and drinks are also food, so it covers virtually all facilities, including beerhouses, buffets, wine bars, discotheques, tea shops or cafes, etc. As far as the parliamentary proposal is concerned, the explanatory memorandum states that a total ban on smoking in mass caterers wishes 78 percent of citizens over 18 years of age. But the question in this survey was: Express your position on the ban on smoking in restaurants. Given what I was saying a moment ago, if that question were to be asked, you are in favour of an absolute ban on smoking in restaurants, bars, cafes, beers, discotheques, etc. etc. where food or drink is served, the result might be different. Moreover, I ask why the authors are based on a survey that is more than two years old when there are at least two newers from renowned agencies on the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u89	Mr. Colleague, I'm gonna interrupt you. First, I will ask the House for peace and I will ask the heads of government clubs to ensure the presence of at least one minister. The Minister of Health is here now, but that's not what I meant, because I understand he's sitting here all the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u90	But I'm glad the Minister of Health has come to hear it, too. I asked why it's based on a two-year-old survey, when there's at least two newers from renowned agencies. I'll even answer you straight up, 'cause they're showing something a little different. In summary, yes, most Čech really do mind the smoke in restaurants, but they do not agree with the absolute ban. Overall, according to the authors of this survey, the long-term trend is that the majority domestic population is not inclined to accept strict bans that leave no choice. It is further argued - I quote from the explanatory note: "The operators of the combined catering facilities are obliged to comply with a number of often unnecessarily strict health and safety standards ensuring health, safe environment and tobacco smoke should not be an exception." But there's one big difference. Hygienic regulations solve things that we cannot see and influence from the customer's point of view. For example, they find it hard to control the cleanliness of the kitchen, freshness of the ingredients or the state of the refrigerators. But you get to know a smoking restaurant immediately, and you can decide whether or not you're going to go to it. For the same reason, the ban on smoking in restaurants cannot be compared with other places where the ban applies, but we do not have a choice to visit. These are bus stops, railway stations, courts and so on. That's where we have to go. We can go to the restaurant. And if I'm right, I really can't understand why, for God's sake, I would choose a smoking restaurant as a non-smoking place. The existence of smoking restaurants does not restrict the rights of non-smokers. It's basically really, really simple. You don't have to go in there, nobody's forcing you. Ignore them, pretend they're not. They won't be after your ban. And you won't mind, I suppose. You guys didn't go there anyway because there was smoke. If you don't, then no one will? If strict non-smokers want to go to any pub without being bothered by smoke, it's probably the same logic as finding vegetarian in a number of restaurants and demanding bloody steak rights. Or rather, and it's probably more accurate, as if vegetarians wanted to ban the consumption of meat in restaurants, because its smell is somehow bothering them. According to the petitioners - I quote again: "The introduction of a ban on smoking in mixed catering facilities abroad did not have a statistically significant long-term effect on the profits of their operators. " In addition to the fact that a credible study on this subject does not seem to exist at all, I would like to interpret the above points a little more clearly. Statistically significant long-term effect. As I understand it, some pubs in the short term, which may not be meant by the order of days, will lose their profits, many will probably go completely bankrupt. But it won't be that bad in the perspective on the nationwide average. I'm looking forward to you explaining to the innkeepers that people have stopped seeing them, but in terms of national statistics, they've actually improved. By the way, the number of customers decreased by 27 percent after the introduction of the smoking ban to the cafes and bars owners in Belgium and the sales decline was around 19 percent. In any case, I will vote in accordance with my best conscience and conscience, and that commands me to be the free choice of the innkeepers whether they are going to run a smoking or non-smoking restaurant. They know what clientele they're targeting and what conditions they want. My single choice will be whether I want to have lunch or dinner without tobacco smoke around, or I want to go sit with my friends in a beer or coffee shop and have a cigarette. If you want to forbid it, leave it to the people themselves, let them decide it in a referendum. Otherwise, I fear where this effort to raise the nation will lead. Yes, smoking has strong negative health consequences. No one here is questioning that. Will we then, according to the same logic, limit sugar in drinks or fat in food? And let's not forget the alcohol, too, where the situation is virtually the same as with nicotine. Why not consider whether a positive motivation, such as the tax advantage of non-smoking businesses, would be more attractive to customers instead of restrictions? Or if you insist on restrictions on prevention, why don't we ban the entry of young people under the age of 18 in smoking businesses, as is the case with gaming rooms? And just to the edge. According to my information in Italy, the number of smoking diseases decreased by 0.2% - two tenths four years after the ban was imposed. Again, I say that the proposed ban is, in this form, a brutal intervention in the freedom of business as well as in the freedom of the individual. Finally, if smoking businesses in this country really bothered people so much, they wouldn't be here anymore, because they wouldn't be coming. If a non-smoking majority requires the right to a non-smoking environment in all bars and restaurants, then it limits my rights as a minority, and I therefore call on the Minister for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, Mr Dienstbier, to act and start defending my rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u91	Thank you, Mr Lank. Mr Marek Benda, now. - With a point of fact? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u92	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after all, I will not forgive myself for one small warning after the breakdown of the previous speaker. We already have a precedent for smoking ban, and that's air traffic. Did somebody stop flying?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u93	That was Mr Gabal. He didn't even take time to make a point of fact. Mr. President, please. Do you, Mr. Chairman, want priority rights? Mr Benda, who is announced, and then with priority rights the President of the KDU-ČSL Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u94	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start where my previous speaker, not the one who was registered with a factual remark, has ended. I remember 1990, Václav Havel's first trip to the United States, his presentation in the United States Congress, where he returns with the father of the current Human Rights Minister, Jiří Dienstbier, or my very good friend. There was some reception on the occasion of their arrival, from this festive arrival from the United States, at which Jiří Dienstbier the elder said on the television camera, and I saw it on the camera, not that I saw it physically in place: "I did not fight 30 years for human rights in the Czech Republic to go to the United States and I was denied the basic human right to smoke." It's just a historical memory so we know where we've moved since then. The second thing I'd like to say, and I think it's fair to say, I'm a smoker. Some would say strong, some would say weak, that probably depends on the point of view. I smoke cigarettes through a pipe and sometimes on a plane and an electronic cigarette, otherwise I don't use it, but where you can't smoke otherwise. So I admit that I am in some kind of conflict of interest on this matter. I'm a little sorry that many of my previous speakers didn't say that they were in this conflict of interest. At least those who are unlearned smokers. With all of them, I say that they envy us, that we have stayed with this beautiful addiction of ours and that they are angry with themselves, that they have abandoned it. If someone's a lifetime non-smoking, it's his absolute right. I respect this absolute right of his, but I would just as much like him to respect this human right of mine to decide differently and choose to smoke. Third point. If something really doesn't work in the world, and it shows up repeatedly today and every day, and we have a lot of experience with it especially from the modernist 20th century, it's different prohibition, so it's different attempts to ban it, try to regulate something. You know well that the United States has introduced prohibition of alcohol with the same noble theories that are going on here today, with the same fight against alcoholism, drunk men, and everything that's going on about it. The result was the only thing that started to be incredibly lousy alcohols, they stopped drinking, and they still didn't learn it, and a huge mafia structure developed around it, with which they fought for the next 50 years. Are we really so unwise that we think that when something like this happened in the world, and we have experience that it will not happen in future campaigns against the next drugs that society uses and is used to? I'm not doing this for all the drugs, but I'm hunting for those she uses and she's used to them. [[18.40 hours]] It would be very interesting to ask in those countries where there have been dramatic restrictions in public spaces, but also elsewhere, how much consumption has been reduced and how much there has been an increase in consumption of other types of drugs, including marijuana, hash, and everything else, because it has simply become attractive, because it is common and ordinary, to which people have been used, is denied and withdrawn. By the way, the Communist regime fought bravely with smoking. I don't know who remembers the famous three-million-dollar Chance event again. We're gonna teach three million smokers to quit smoking. I remember commenting back then. Fifteen million doesn't stand a chance, so why should three have it in the communist regime then? But that was the case, and once again it turned out that it didn't do anything, and that, on the contrary, these attempts at restriction only lead to the fact that banned substances, whether they are smoking, alcohol or others, become attractive to the young generation because they are a means of rebelling against those elders who forbid them. From all these points of view, I consider the attempts to ban smoking to be very unreasonable, but I think that they are mainly coming at absolutely the wrong time. If this debate had any more meaning here, and I understood it from non-smokers as legitimate as a whole ten, fifteen years ago, when the vast majority of the food establishments were smokers, and I understood that there are a lot of non-smokers who say, "I just don't want to go into the smoker, it bothers me there, don't make me go there" then the situation has changed absolutely, fundamentally over the past ten years. The original proposal that went through here, I don't know what it is, 2004 for mandatory separation of smoking and non-smoking areas showed an old manual: the market works, the market has worked completely smoothly. Today you have not only in big cities, but also in very small, perhaps not where there is only one pub, but even in very small ones you have a complete choice of whether you want to go to smoking or non-smoking environments. In Prague, I would even say that the majority of the non-smoking environments is now. Okay, if most customers are interested in a non-smoking environment, let them go to it. The non-smoking environment also saw it as its competitive advantage at some point, as a way to lure people there more to eat. And today, I don't think they're sure it's an advantage for them if you forbid anyone to smoke. So does he - and if I can choose a restaurant, I'm going to a smoking restaurant, I confess. Of course, if I'm going out with little kids, I'm either going out or I'm going to a restaurant that's non-smoking. If I'm dating my friends after regular sports, they outvoted me for going to the non-smoking section on Friday. I'm not gonna tell a particular pub that - not to advertise it here, but it's a restaurant that has the front part, where the windows are non-smoking, the back part of a smoking unsmoked, basically nothing at all. Two columns and there's no... It's just got good ventilation. I go there with non-smokers who don't mind, they don't feel anything, they don't complain about anything. So it's all just a matter of how much I'm willing to invest in it. And it's all a question of operators who can choose how they work. They give this offer to people, and people can choose. Let's not keep trying to teach them that we're the smartest people to tell them how it's supposed to work. So much for my general remarks on both proposals, including Mr Vondráček's proposal and others, which covered only one part of the ban on smoking in all restaurants. I consider him a mistake. I would consider it right for us to reject this proposal, and I suggest that we reject both of these proposals, because I think that smoking bans in all restaurants are simply a mistake. From this point of view, both bills should be rejected. But now that we have discussed both proposals in the general debate, I would very much like to return to the Government's bill on health protection against the harmful effects of substances and discuss some of its provisions and try to explain to you why, in conclusion, I will propose if my proposal is not adopted, that we reject the bill, so that, in addition to the health committee, we put this bill on the constitutional committee. Because I'm afraid there's still a game going on here, that it's a medical matter, that the paramedics are supposed to convince us that smoking is harmful. I basically believe them. I am not deeply convinced of this, but I believe in them, in fact, I just think that the only thing in the world that we know safely leads to death is life itself, and yet we continue to live it. That's why I'm a happy smoker, and maybe I'll regret it someday. I trust the paramedics that smoking is harmful, but that's all I want to do about it. But the very fact that smoking is harmful does not necessarily mean that we are writing laws that will be impossible, which can lead to a number of very bizarre decisions and strange bullying. Let me... Sorry. [[The speaker looks into his written material on the speaker's desk.]] Before I move on to the analysis of the law, one more comment, which I think is more general in nature, and which is related to the fact that we are talking about protecting health from the harmful effects of addictive substances. I know that in the various proposals presented to the Ministry of Justice, there was also an effort to regulate in some way at least in terms of pushing out the centers of large cities and pushing out the schools and kindergartens of the so-called whiskers or various other environments in which methadones and other substitute substances are applied, which are legal substitutes for hard drugs. Unfortunately, it is not in this bill. I'm from Prague 4, from Nusli, where we have a huge problem, because there are really junkies on the streets from a third of Prague who go there for substitutions. Town Halls of Prague 4 and Prague City Hall have repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Health, if it could at least be said, move it somewhere, not to be 15 meters from the school, 15 meters from the church. So let's try, if we need to treat those drug addicts and give them substitutes, so don't make them sit on the school stairs and apply them directly to each other's veins. Unfortunately, this, which I would consider to be one of the things that we should at least try to regulate, is not regulated by the bill, because it has taken the task of fighting only smoking and alcoholism. So now I'm going to go to these particular provisions and try to easily point out the complexity of them. Even if we look at the definition of terms, I have to say that point (c) smoking aid is anything that is used for smoking, with the fact that I'm going to remove matches and lighters - well, thank God we took them out of it, but when I have my smoker and I send my baby for a laptop, which is a piece of metal that is really not used for anything other than smoking, but I don't know how it could hurt a kid to buy it, so according to the subsequent provisions and rules that the Ministry has established when the seller accidentally sells it to him, he gets 30 when he's a legal person, up to 300 thousand fines. I don't know again, you're trying to regulate everything unnecessarily and at all costs. [[18.50 hours]] There's been a lot of talk about electronic cigarettes. Minister Kalousek has already performed here. It seems to me that trying to regulate electronic cigarettes is either a white Ministry dog - we know we're gonna put it in there, and then we're gonna let it go so something can happen -- or it's like, well, we don't like you smokers, so we're gonna ban everything. But there's no other meaning and no meaning. No one knows if it's harmful or harmful. It was allowed to operate, but just to be safe, what if it were harmful, we'd ban it in restaurants. From this title, after the World Health Organization reports, we should ban red meat and sausage coming out of it, which they claim is as harmful as cigarettes. Further, to stick to only Section 2. If I go to point (j), I think it has already been mentioned here. But the idea of saying anything that has two walls and any roof, I'm gonna call it a room, then all I'm saying is that if you have a garnish in the front, or a tarp ceiling above the flat roof, then you're not in the room. If there's a corner, then you're in the room, and you're probably not allowed to smoke there. Not to mention tents and other things. These are such beautiful ideas that are likely to prevent people from building tents and smoking in tents. But their factual results will be an extremely contradictory decision, because what if it is in the corner or it isn't. We will proceed to § 3 para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the I would really like to know, Minister, what stores are with the prevailing range of goods intended for persons under 18 years of age. [[Minister Nemecek from the newsstand with laughter: Toymaking.]] Well, a toy store, I understand. But are they grocery stores? The goods are undoubtedly intended for persons under 18 years of age. That it's meant for older people too, that's not what you're talking about. But I don't know what that definition is, I don't know it from any other regulation, as far as I know. And it's really so incomprehensible. Mobile phone stores - young mobile phones use the most, so are they the environment of the prevailing range of goods intended for persons under 18 years of age? Magazine stores? I don't know exactly what that means. I'd understand if you wrote that it wasn't allowed to be sold in a toy store. But goods intended for persons under the age of 18 are really such an incredibly wide list. That's probably most of the candy. Because we elders shouldn't eat candy anymore because we're getting fat. The younger ones don't get that fat. But maybe it's other business. I'd really like to know exactly what that means. Let's keep going. Products imitating tobacco products and smoking aids are once again a debate that I think has been conducted many times. I find it absolutely smiling why it shouldn't be a chocolate pipe unpacking like it used to be in our young years. But if the D.O.D. thinks a chocolate pipe is gonna get someone to start smoking, then maybe there's a good reason not to. Article 6 (1) (a) 7. We have some general rules on what to do with data under the Privacy Act, what to do with the data I collect about my customers. Suddenly, in the case of tobacco products, smoking aids, herbal products intended for smoking - I don't know what it is anymore - it turns out that it's a completely different rule. Sometimes they're allowed to pass on, here we say, it's such a sensitive figure, if someone bought a cigarette, that I really can't hand it over to anyone under any circumstances. Well, I'm surprised we're so incredibly sensitive at this point to the smoking data. Let's move on. Getting to Section 8. At international airports, in public buildings you allow to set up smoking rooms. Probably because it's so customary that there are always smoking rooms at international airports. Sometimes they are in public buildings, sometimes they are not. In a special way, however, in other public buildings in the sense of cinemas, theatres, exhibition and concert halls, sports halls, indoor spaces for cultural and dance events, you suddenly do not allow the possibility of setting up a smoking room. I'm asking why that is. It may be at the airport, but I can't even have a separate cubicle in the cinema anymore. That's what you do in all the food services. I was explaining why I think this is generally wrong, but in most international hotels that I've ever seen in your life, at least you have the opportunity to put a glassed cuckoo inside that hotel hall where those vicious and criminal smokers sit and everyone can look at them and point out: These are the ones we envy having some more of their favorite. But here in our case, in the case of catering services, you do not allow this. I wonder why this is so, why at least the possibility of creating a separate smoking area, if you want to forbid which is ventilated and is unattended, you do not allow. I have already talked about electronic cigarettes in part, but since I am almost certain that the Minister of Health will release them at the end, I will not discuss them in detail, because I think they are really just in a way that should lead us to focus on electronic cigarettes and not talk about it essential. I'm going to head III. Restrictions on the availability of alcoholic beverages. That has hardly been mentioned yet, and I want to show the other absurdities of the bill. Even if we look at paragraph 1 of Section 11, it is prohibited to sell alcoholic beverages outside the shop, which is a food business, food service establishment, accommodation facilities, refreshment stand, booth, etc., public transport means of distance, rail, air, water and long-distance bus transport. I'm really wondering how the Moravian winemakers and their cellars are gonna end up. I wonder. If these are not specifically stores, but it is only his cellar from which he will record your wine, I fear that in such a moment he is in accordance with § 11 para. 1 prohibition of such sales, unless it is a permanent store by a food business or accommodation establishment or anything else. I'm not sure they'll thank you, Minister, Moravian winemakers for such a strict ban. And then the most magical part is the paragraph. 4 Paragraph 11. "It shall be prohibited to sell or serve alcoholic beverages or to allow them to be sold or administered to a person under 18 years of age." Well, it's cute. I think that in the case of sales, you are right, but in the case of administration, of course, a reasonable parent teaches his children to drink alcohol from some reasonable age, and I don't know if it must be 18 years. But let's believe that you're not coming home yet and that it's gonna be difficult to prove this. However, what I find even more interesting is "a person apparently affected by alcohol or other addictive substances. " Well, if I said you couldn't sell it to her at the pub, I'd understand. But the idea that the government's motion forbids to file means that when I'm having a party at home, I'm gonna keep looking at the company and saying, "Well, you're obviously already affected, which means I can't even give you another hand!" And we're gonna cut each other off like this in the company. Do you understand the absurdities that this bill is trying to say what it's trying to regulate? He's trying to regulate social life as if in good intentions, but... I've been to a restaurant with many of you. Many times in such a way that it would not be given to them, I would not be given. I wonder who would be guilty at the time. [[19.00 hours]] Last point. A person who can reasonably be expected to subsequently carry out an activity in which he could endanger human health or damage property. So I'm also curious as to how the seller or submitter should assess it and how he has the chance to deal with it in any way at all. Let's move on to Section 13. About how very controversial it is, if we really need to prescribe that in each shop or food service establishment there is one drink that is cheaper than beer, we talked. I suppose it'll work out by being the non-alcopies or the low-content beers. Let's continue with the next points. Obligation of the seller of alcoholic beverages, § 16. The seller who sells alcoholic beverages at the food service establishment is obliged to ensure that a person under 18 years of age who is apparently under the influence of alcohol does not stay in that establishment. Here's the obvious again... I understand he's not supposed to give it to her, but the obvious, we don't want that from the state authorities. This is what we want from every citizen, from every operator under relatively strict sanctions, on the basis of which a police officer comes and says to me: the rapporteur seems obviously under the influence, the other one says: I do not seem to be under the influence. Frankly, we had this argument in the House several times. Mr Rath here years ago thought someone was obviously under the influence, others thought he was obviously not under the influence. It is not an entirely simple dispute, but we place, in turn, on private entities, not on the entities of state power that they have and may have at least some rules, but we place on private entities an obligation to assess whether or not someone is under the influence. Now we have such rules that it can call for her to leave, and suddenly we place a duty on private individuals to obey another private person's call. Again very unusual in public law. I am used to the possibility that public persons may call on private persons to do something and not do something. It is not quite customary for private individuals to do so. The municipality's generally binding decrees have also been discussed. I think that the problems that the communities would make of this, not only in their storage, but also in their enforcement, will all come to mind to avoid it. But what I thought was perhaps the most smiling of the whole bill is § 18 - Prohibition of entry for a person who is obviously under the influence of alcohol or other addictive substances. A person who is apparently under the influence of alcohol or other addictive substances is prohibited from entering and abstaining. And now you have a list of a) all the way to). Honestly, in the obvious that the Minister of Gestures is showing me here, most of these people obviously don't even know where he is anymore, let alone know where he can and can't enter at that time. And this is where their duty is, where they can and cannot enter. If they can or can't take a tram. Have you ever seen anyone drunk, Minister? He doesn't really study the laws he can or can't enter at the time. Sounds to me like they're really such ideas... I think I'm gonna end up a little bit, 'cause I wanted us to point out some of the problems that then, of course, have a very significant impact on the transgressions. Therefore, I would ask that the bill be discussed also in the Constitutional Legal Committee, because there are also some wordings of the offences - of course both of them - there are some wordings of the criminal matters which are so controversial and so out of the ordinary law which are used by other legal sectors than the Ministry of Health, that I would like to be able to do so elsewhere than on the health committee alone, but to which I have also been chosen by this House for sure, so that I can apply my reservations there as well. But I think that the constitutionally-legal committee would deserve to discuss the bill in particular in terms of sanctions and their effects on ordinary citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Just to confirm, the motion to dismiss applies to both laws? Excellent. And now I beg you, Mr Kalousek, with Mr Mihola's right of priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u96	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Although I understand that many of us want to support this law, and I also report to it, the last arguments are so alarming that we need to smoke on it, and therefore, please take 15 minutes for a break from the MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u97	Yes, please, I'm declaring a break until 7:20 p.m. for the TOP 09 meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u98	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. It's 19.20 and we'll continue our negotiations. I see here the priority right of Mr Mihola, who is not yet in the hall, therefore with the priority right of Mr Stanjura. So I'm gonna ask the heads of the government clubs to secure the presence... and the minister is already here. Excellent. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u99	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to ask the rapporteur. I don't see him yet... is he on his way? Well, I'm in no hurry, so I'm quite patient... I would like to respond to today's debate... [[A reminder from the diaper.]] Yes, there is no way to act without a rapporteur, that is true. Yes. I would like someone to arrange for the rapporteur's presence so that we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u100	It's already happening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u101	I will let the President go, because the rapporteur is not here and I cannot go on. So, Prime Minister, I'll give you some space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u102	Okay. I'd like to see Mr. Mihola's mike.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u103	Thank you for your word and your privilege. I'm so sorry, I just went to the bathroom, and then I couldn't speed it up. [[Laugh left.]] It's just a little one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u104	The rapporteur is here. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today in the Chamber of Deputies, all the essential and certainly the minor arguments for and against the smoking law have also been made. On behalf of KDU-ČSL, a colleague of doktor Vít Kaňkovský, who, as a doctor, is an important authority to me in this matter. I think it's normal not to smoke them. At the same time, I would like to say that I am not a militant non-smoking person. I would like us to manage some things in our country without regulations and without laws. And I'm also willing to discuss sensible and real solutions. Unfortunately, it seems to me that in many places in the Czech Republic they are not able to separate even as banal things as - but indeed, not just as separate - smoking and non-smoking space. I quite often travel with my family, and that's not really my guess. I experience these situations very often. It's just that the smoking area is so formally separated from the non-smoking area and I'm going to say hard-heartedly that there's really no choice but to sit back down, get back together and walk away, which I'm very, very sorry about. I appreciate that both anti-smoking proposals have been put on the agenda. As much as I agree with the government's priority, I don't see my colleague Vondráček here, but I was also rooting for his proposal because it was filed a long time ago, and it is logical that we are actually discussing both proposals because it is nothing against anything. Or they don't go against each other, for sure. When we deal with various amendments in the course of the next negotiations, I would strongly advocate that we do not be afraid to inspire foreign countries where similar proposals work and whose form society accepts without problems. I know there are different opinions in many clubs about the anti-smoking law. I read somewhere that the neighbouring ODS club, that not one Member will support the proposal. I believe the writer was wrong to find support there too. But all the more I want to assure the KDU-ČSL that we can count on the support of all Members there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u106	I thank you and please now with Mr Stanjura's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u107	Thank you for the floor. First, Prime Minister Mihol. I appreciate the interest in voting for our club. It's quite simple for us. We have no binding vote on this point, as on many other points. But oddly enough, what Chairman Mihola said is true. None of our own will support it. And I'll try to explain why. And I apologize that today, in addition to calling my fellow Member, my fellow Member, I will also use academic degrees because I felt like I was on a medical symposium and, with all due respect to my colleagues and colleagues, I think that each of us could, at some point, exhibate and say technical terms from his business. I believe that today's key to debate is not to be healthy, but to be free. I'm very convinced of that. In the logic of your proposal, Mrs Pecková, a doctor, said that in the debate it was quite clearly demonstrated and documented by fellow doctors that cigarettes and alcohol are harmful to health. That's a match. Thus, regulators who support this bill - and I must say that, so far, the supporters of this law have appeared in the debate, because it is modern, European, popular, so we will all support it etc. Why do you stay halfway? You guys agreed here that it's bad for cigarettes and alcohol. At the same time, you forbid cigarettes in restaurants. Not alcohol. In the logic of this proposal, you should enforce a ban on the sale of alcohol in restaurants. Because it certainly hurts your health. The minister nods his head, so that's good news, if a doctor nods his head that alcohol doesn't harm his health, that's good news for many of his fellow citizens. But I don't know if it's true. And aside from the rather comical explanation that this bill has a social function. I had no idea until today that - I don't know if the main or by-product of the plaintiffs and supporters of the law is so that people could meet in front of the restaurant. For example, a funny phrase to get to know: good day, do you happen to have a light? And social dialogue just goes on. That's not what the explanatory statement said, and I don't know if today's youth is starting yet... It was emphasized, a man with a woman or a woman of a man. But I don't want to run away, I don't want to downplay it. But where is freedom of choice? You're breaking in the open door. The trend is right. Ten years ago, it may have been hard to find a non-smoking restaurant. It's not a problem today. Why do you want to legalize it? Do you think there aren't enough non-smoking restaurants? Does it seem to you that citizens have no choice and that they do not have to go to non-smoking restaurants? They don't have to go to the smokers if they don't want to? I think that's how it is today. I can judge from my town, 60 grand, where five years ago there was a non-smoking restaurant, and today I can't even count them. Yet you are ready to do good. I think my colleague, Marek Benda, has clearly pointed out some absurd paragraphs. That's right. Then, because there is also logical resistance, so I read in the media, and then it seemed to me that some coalition MPs had an excellent idea that it would not apply in small municipalities, the ban. And then they have an even better idea that the mayor will decide. I really don't know where you come up with these good ideas. If you stick to the normal approach, you'll say, "Citizen's got sense, he'll choose." There's an offer, there's no problem. [[19.30 hours]] I must mention the popular topic of debate for at least three years: one soft drink must be cheaper than an alcoholic drink of the same volume - if I quote correctly. The question is why. Shouldn't bio-chicken be cheaper than water chicken? He's healthier, isn't he? I think it is. And if it's not cheaper, then why couldn't we - it's not an attack, it's what I tried to show the absurdity of this law. And because I know what it looks like on that shelf, what the prices of these two products are, I used it because in that logic, it should be. Or we could consider soft drinks. Some are more harmful and contain more sugars and others contain less. So if you're consistent, you should set prices according to the sugar content. The less sugar, the lower the price. That makes sense when you propose the same thing in general. I'm just making it better, your proposal. That's all I'm saying. You're smiling, some of you. I agree with that. Some even laugh. Why aren't you laughing at what you wrote? And you are so eager to support it. Isn't that ridiculous? I know how this ends - logically. Come on, cocktail, it's usually cheaper than the beer, right? But we can tell the citizens: we were thinking of you. We've arranged for at least one soft drink to be cheaper than beer. That it's gonna be a rooster, that's irrelevant. But we wrote the law, voted by a large majority. All KDU colleagues will be in favor, among other things, and not just them, that would not be enough, and done. The idea of the festivals - I think the festivals and electronic cigarettes, Marek Benda remarked exactly, that's a white dog. This is what the Ministry ultimately sacrifices to say: We have shown our efforts to compromise and compromise these things. It turns out in the debate that the opinions are different, it's not as simple as that. Unfortunately, the doctors haven't examined it yet, whether they're testing the electronic cigarettes or not, so we'll get back to it in, like, 20 years, then we'll see, so we'll forgive it. And we have compromise and woe when there's someone against compromise. What kind of obstinate ideological opponent of this proposal is this when we have presented a compromise? The Minister is smiling, but I wonder what his recommendation will be when we vote on amendments to the field of festivals and electronic cigarettes. Both of them are good, I will support both of them if someone reads them, unless, unfortunately, today you support our motion to reject this law in the first reading, or both laws. The simple one, at least he doesn't play anything. It's easier, he just says, he doesn't put things like that -- really, how does the operator know when a minor walks in who's under the influence of a substance other than alcohol? How is she supposed to know? What means does he have to know that? And what kind of coercive means will it have? How will it require it? Or it'll just be a fake. The idea, and there are many experienced municipal politicians, that municipalities regulate smoking by a generally binding decree, is not right either. A smoker comes, comes to a town, and the first thing - he doesn't ask where to buy a ticket, he asks: Hello, please, do you have a generally binding decree to ban smoking in this village? I wouldn't want to break it, and I wouldn't want to pay a fine. Well, how should he know, we have 6 245 municipalities. And as I know my colleagues, at least half of them will accept such a decree, as decrees were adopted to push homeless people out of the city centre, and those decrees were called a ban on the consumption of alcoholic beverages in the public area. But then everyone remembered that they have Christmas markets, Easter markets, this event, this charity event, so we have a decree that says it's against alcohol, it's called "we don't want homeless people downtown," that's the real purpose, but of course there's a lot of exceptions to that, because otherwise the decree would be absurd and wouldn't work. I don't know. Perhaps at second reading, the Ministry of Health could prepare a model proposal for such a decree. It doesn't have to be the village or the streets. Just what would such a decree contain? Who would require compliance and compliance with the decree, and what would be the sanctions? And who has ever enforced sanctions, for example, by the city police, knows what a sad story it is that it doesn't really pay to enforce, because the chances of recovery are very small. Those who owe are funny about it, and you impose fines, impose fines, and perceptive opposition says, "What's the mayor doing with it? They already have five million outstanding fines. The magistrate or the city's not working well. The argument - and I agree with Mr Vácha, I also visited some Western metropolis where the restaurant really was empty because everyone was outside. That's where they made the social contact and spoke to each other. What's it gonna do on those streets? Especially in the city centers there are restaurants downstairs in apartment houses. Well, that's gonna be great when the fun is over - because so far, no one has ever thought of banning a smoking conversation or drinking alcohol in front of a restaurant. But we could, or they would, of course, disturb the citizens who live there. But they can meet again. I don't know what's more interesting or not for public space. Now that's the end of the joke. When does it end? When does anyone else come up with the idea that you can't serve alcohol in a restaurant because it's bad for your health? Or, for example, fat meat or other unhealthy foods? They're developing those opinions. Every time someone makes and gets a grant, they do a new study, so they surprise that what was healthy last year is already unhealthy this year, and on the contrary, what was unhealthy in the new study proved that it doesn't hurt completely. Where is the responsibility of the citizen to take care of his own health? And where's the free choice to choose? And the combination for the village restaurant, EET -- because who steals from those innkeepers, tells the government coalitions, we don't say that -- with the smoking ban, that's a really dangerous combination. I get the ideas. Many of you realize that, and now they're figuring out how to pull the rescue brake at least in those small towns, and the mayor's decision. But that's really not a good solution. I think that as the idea of generally binding decrees is wrong, some authority of the mayor to decide if he's going to a restaurant - and what if the mayor allows that in one and in the other he doesn't? Sounds to me like someone who doesn't have it is already entering into a competitive fight. And why don't you just leave it to the competition? I'm not questioning it. I think most citizens prefer non-smoking restaurants, which is why new ones are also created. Then why do you want to take away their competitive advantage? Many have invested in it. I have to agree with Prime Minister Mihola about these mixed operations. I know restaurants where there are non-smoking lounges, and it doesn't matter. If the novel was trying to do this, it had our support. If we were to say, "We want to figure out that she's either smoking or non-smoking, and no building well or poorly separated space, I would support that. I really do, because it's the owner or operator's responsibility, and it's the choice. That's how he looks like a non-smoking environment, maybe he doesn't smoke directly in that particular room, but at least on what kind of odor your clothes have after leaving the non-smoking area, you'll know it's a smoking restaurant. That wouldn't be a problem. That would be a match. Either that or, not play like that. Like you don't smoke in here or like you smoke in here. But the law goes a lot further. And the arguments - I don't want to question health arguments at all, but is it legal to smoke today? I think it's legal. I think the state is taking relatively high income from excise duties. But we treat it with this bill, as if it were illegal - that is, in public space. See ya. And I'm noticing yet. No one thought he'd be checking it out somewhere else. But when the clerk comes to check on what I'm drowning, he might as well see if I don't have an ashtray at home while he's there, so I think it might be one at a time. I know you're all excited about how we all support it. Most in this Chamber of Deputies pretend to be thrilled that we will finally be modern, European. But try to listen to our arguments. And whether there's more state regulation or personal freedom for you. For me, the answer is very simple. For me, personal freedom is more valuable. And I choose non-smoking restaurants, really. And it doesn't matter if they serve food or not. It's my free choice. But I don't need the law, I don't need the legislators telling me what to do in my spare time, which type of business I have to visit. I always ask the regulators, and now we can appeal to the European resources, where the pride comes from, that they know, they raise, they know what's right. And they may be right, but why are they forcing their truth to others? Why are they not convinced by a personal example? [[19.40 hours]] Now I'm gonna forget the debate, and it's a good thing the minister threw that teddy bear out of the bill. If the bear, that is, I have never experienced in the Chamber of Deputies that you have a fund and everyone is taking something out of it, then nothing else at the Office of the Government, here at the Ministry of Health, is anything but a small teddy bear from which a pre-determined group of selected organizations will undoubtedly carry out a worthy activity. And it's a good thing the minister didn't put it there, and I hope no one can load it. And if it reads that it doesn't get support. Those ideas appear repeatedly. Who wouldn't like to have a teddy bear and therefore have the power to be the good guy who splits somebody else's money? I would ask that the Minister in the debate be able to answer some of our reservations or concerns before the final word. Why do we want this? And I'd like it not to be an answer - because they have it everywhere. Well, that's unfair to colleagues who don't have priority rights. Of course, I can respond even after your performance, but colleagues who performed here, Marek Benda, with specific questions about specific sections - you were also smiling ha, ha, ha, ha, that is so funny. But it says so. I don't think it's that funny. You nod your head, but someone wrote the law, someone discussed it in LRV weeks and months, if I'm not mistaken, and yet there was such absurd provisions that Marek Benda quoted, and at the request of the presidents of the coalition clubs, I asked Marek not to quote all of them, because we would not have ended up doing that by Friday if he had taken a genuinely honest paragraph after the paragraph and asked questions about how it was actually meant, how it would be interpreted, who would evaluate it. Basic question, Minister: If you enforce the law, will it start to work, what percentage of cigarette consumption in the Czech Republic will fall? I wonder if there's a connection or not. Then we can guess, or you can guess how many restaurants it closes in smaller villages. Or is it going to be because I'm talking to some of them, and they're getting ready to turn it into a club, and now I don't know, a private club like that - is it going to be public space or not? Will this law apply to this? Well, it won't. So we're going to pretend that we've pushed through something that's not allowed in our country, and there's going to be a form that doesn't match what's in the law, but because it's not going to be public space, it's going to be a private club where they have some membership cards for free or for a fee, and it's going to be settled. What difference does it make? Well, that's the only one. We will say that we are modern, European, we are in this trend. But the doubts are great, and although we do not have a binding vote, because it is simply not absolutely important with such a bill, it is not anything crucial - but maybe it is crucial because it shows that freedom is not obvious and that many feel that they will regulate us for so long as they regulate us. When they know everything about us, they'll prescribe what to do, who to do it with, where to do it, when to do it. I don't think that's a good way to go. Every time we're at the end of that road, we almost forget when we started. And this is the beginning of that journey, one of many attempts. Colleagues from Social Democracy also want to tell us when to go shopping and when not. They invented - remember - 200 square meters of space. That's it. 190 meters can go shopping, 201 square meters cannot go shopping. And when we asked why, I'm just reminding you, if you remember the senator's answer, many of you pretend you don't remember, I'll remind her: because that's the way it is in France. In France they have 200 meters, so we will also have 200 square meters. This is how we prepare one regulation after another. I am a little lacking in this bill in the spirit of what this government, the register of smokers have prepared, because we have a register of contracts, we are preparing a register of accounts, a register of medical personnel - Minister, if I am not mistaken - we have a proposed register of athletes in the proposal for sports support. It would be good to have a smoking register. Then we could compare, for example, how many people are simultaneously in the register of athletes and in the register of smokers. I'd be quite interested as a sports fan if we had the two registers, whether there's a zero or not. I don't think so. But really the obsession with creating all sorts of registers, I don't completely understand. I told you it wasn't there, but it's a bit lacking in the logic of all the other registers. Marek Benda pointed it out. It's gonna end up with that register being there. It's just gonna be a novel, so it's possible to know who's smoking in front of the restaurant, because it's really dangerous. Today we say there will be social contacts. But won't the kids walk the streets and see the smokers? They can't see them today when they're in that pub, can they? Well, they don't see them because kids don't go to that pub or they shouldn't go, parents shouldn't take them. When they're on those streets, they'll probably see them, won't they? And whoever doesn't believe me, go see the metropolises, modern, European, progressive, where the ban is already. There are smokers all out on the streets, not hidden in restaurants. Then it's a logical step for regulators, so if they don't go in, they'll be outside, so at least mark them so they know who's screwing up the kids and who's standing there with the cigarette in front of the restaurant. But maybe we could give the mayors some tools to ban it from the restaurant. That might help. But who's gonna control all this? And that's not where we have the answer. Who's gonna enforce the law? How regularly? If the white dog gets through, because the Minister will definitely now not be accused of putting a white dog in the proposal, then I think he'll eventually be in favour of preserving electronic cigarettes, otherwise he'll admit it was just a diversion, so who's gonna check the electronic cigarettes? That's gonna be a pretty complicated problem. But once again, it can contribute to employment, because the government could hire some 13,000 employees like this year, and they could control where smokers with that electronic cigarette still work. I know that I have used a number of absurd illustrations or absurd warnings in my speech, and that many will say that it is not, so it will certainly not end. I wish! I'm afraid it can end that way. So it would be most reasonable if we were not European and modern today, we would use common sense and support the rejection of these two bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have two factual points here. First to the microphone, please, Mrs. Válková. Then Mr Kalousek will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u109	Madam President, my dear colleagues, I do not wish to hold back your attention for a long time or two minutes, but I must join indirectly - although otherwise I very much welcome Parliament's debate and debate, I am starting to feel that there is indeed an intention here that will lead to the recess of this law. I think that we should discipline ourselves in our speeches and in view of the fact that we want our public to know the opinion of Members in the vote, so that we do not hide behind parliamentary democracy, which, of course, allows everyone to speak, especially those who have priority rights, with repeated arguments over and over again. So if I may from this place, I ask for discipline and that we actually come to some conclusion tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u110	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Kalousek, in fact. Mr Stanjura will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u111	Thank you for the floor. I would like to join the appeal of Professor Válková, because I think that we should make a decision without delay, in a matter of fact, non-ideologically, and we certainly need to be consulted on that. [[Laughter from the left side of the hall.]] President Stanjura's appearance was to such an extent essential that we had doubts about the positions that we had already taken. Therefore, please request a 50-minute break at the TOP 09 meeting. I ask the members of the club to gather at the club premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-08-ps2013-036-05-003-999.u112	Yes, I'm interrupting the meeting until 20.40 hours.
