ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u1	170. Written Interpelations A total of 10 responses were submitted to the agenda for the meetings of the Chamber of Deputies for which MEPs were unhappy. We've already dealt with four of them on June 18th, now we're down to six. I draw attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that, if the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it nor shall it continue to act on it. We will now proceed to individual responses. The first question is Mr Rostislav Vyzula, who intersected the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek on compulsory schooling of foreigners. The Minister replied and his response to the interview is presented as press 490. On 18 June, this intervention and its deliberations were suspended. I'm opening the debate. This is Mr. Vyzula. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u2	Hello. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to finish today's interview, which I began in March of this year with the Minister of Education, Mr Chládek. Unfortunately, this matter was inherited by the new Madam Secretary. I understand it's an inheritance, but I believe we can work something out. To start with, I'd like to start with a brief history. Interpelation took place on the basis of the amendment of Act No. 561/2004 Coll., Education Act, specifically the new provision § 50 para. 4 which was introduced into the school law by Act No. 82/2015 Coll., which became effective on 1 May 2015. Now what's the big deal? Article 50 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: 4 of the school law states - I quote: "If a foreigner who does not have permanent residence in the territory of the Czech Republic does not participate in teaching continuously for at least 60 teaching days and fails to demonstrate his absence in accordance with the conditions laid down in the school code, he will cease to be a pupil of the school on the day following the end of that period." That is the problem that I perceive can be the problem, and therefore I would like us to find a solution. As I have already pointed out in the written interview of 31 March t. r., the above provision seems discriminatory to me. The provision creates inequality in the treatment of domestics and foreigners, thus coming into conflict with the equal right to education. This is enshrined in many international law standards by which the Czech Republic is bound, and therefore the Czech Republic is threatened with adverse international legal consequences for the introduction of this provision. In his comments on my written interview, Minister Chládek said that in practice, a foreigner who is bound by compulsory school attendance will leave the Czech Republic or change the school without prior notice of his intention to the school. He also mentioned in this connection that it was still difficult to exclude a pupil from school in such cases. However, I would like to point out that the situation described here may also occur with citizens of the Czech Republic, not just with foreigners. However, for this reason, a pupil cannot be expelled from school for citizens of the Czech Republic. I therefore consider that this argument cannot be sufficiently refuted by the discriminatory nature of the provision in question, § 50 para. Four school laws. I therefore ask, Madam Secretary: Do you really believe, or therefore, the apparatus of the Ministry of Education, that the new provision of the school law is necessary to achieve the intended objectives and that it is not discriminatory? I would also like to ask: What is your position on the fact that adverse international consequences may arise from the newly introduced provision for the Czech Republic? It's a precaution. As a doctor, I am aware that prevention is the most important thing in medicine. We can't put out a fire, but we have to prevent it. Therefore, I would not like the Czech Republic to get into problems that may also result in unpleasant economic consequences. So I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u3	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Secretary wishes to speak, so he has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u4	Mr President, honourable Members. Dear Member, Professor, allow me to respond to your interpellation. First of all, allow me to apologize for reaching its final solution at the time when the amendment to the Education Act on 1 May, which means that the provisions on which you have doubts in terms of its constitutionality, took effect on 1 May 2015. [[9.10 hours]] I believe that your concerns stem mainly from the fact that the right to education must be realized on our territory in an equal manner, whether it is a foreigner or not. However, the Education Act clearly states in Section 20 that citizens of the European Union and their family members have access to education and school services under this Act under the same conditions as citizens of the Czech Republic. Similarly, people who are not persons of the European Union have access to basic education under the same conditions as EU citizens - this is the issue that you point out - if they reside in the Czech Republic. What is crucial, however, is that the provision of basic education is a compulsory nine-year schooling, which is therefore something other than the realization of the right to education, it is not the same set, it is not linked to the fact that a foreigner is legally residing in the territory of the Czech Republic. These provisions, as I have defined them, clearly correspond with the relevant articles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, according to the School Act, and it should therefore not be interpreted as unconstitutional, that is to say, Section 50. However, I would like to point out that Section 50 is, in fact, an administrative measure which reflects the general obligations which are directed both towards the children of foreigners and, therefore, to the others. Therefore, this is the case in Section 22 (2) of the Guidelines. 3 when, according to the school law, the basic obligations of legal representatives in the field of compulsory schooling include the obligation to ensure that the pupil attends the school properly, and then also to report to the school information under Sections 28 (2) and 3 of the school law, including the place of permanent residence or residence in the territory of the Czech Republic. Paragraph 50 (1) (a) is replaced by the following: Thus, 4 introduces only a new rule of administrative termination of primary education, although special with regard to other groups of pupils, and we consider that in this case it is not an unconstitutional provision. However, I have understood very well, Professor, your concerns in terms of possible practice, which may not reflect the fact that, as a result of this administrative termination, no one will be interested in how the right of the child in the territory is realized or even whether it does not persist in the territory and therefore does not, of course, continue to have a compulsory schooling obligation, and therefore whether these matters will be sufficiently reflected here in practice. At this point, I would conclude my response by not worrying that this is an unconstitutional provision, but I share doubts with you in the sense that practice could be such that unconstitutional treatment could occur in a particular case. Therefore, I will allow myself to supplement my response to your interpelation in the sense that I will take methodological and coordination measures towards educational institutions in this way, in order to draw attention to these possible connotations and to prevent the possible disability of a specific pupil-alien. In this respect, I would offer that, of course, I will complement this argument in writing, including the demonstration of methodological guidance in this area. And, of course, if I had detected within the territory that such cases were taking place, I would have subsequently informed Members and Members of Parliament of this fact, together with the proposal for a solution. However, I do not regard the very provisions as unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u5	Thank you. I will ask the Member if he wants to respond. Please, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u6	Madam Secretary, I very much appreciate your helpful attitude and I am extremely satisfied, because such a procedure could eventually occur and could be unpleasant. We know many cases from the European Union as well as similar situations. I just wanted to point that out so the Ministry would be aware of that, because he never knows a person, but it can happen. Thank you very much and I am most satisfied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u7	Yes, I suppose you're not suggesting a disagreement. And if the Minister doesn't want to speak any more, we can end this interview. Thank you. Another intervention is the interpelation of Vice-President Filip to Minister Zaorálek. But I don't see Vice President Filip here, so that's exactly the case I've been pointing out, that is. § 112. Therefore, this interpelation will not be discussed either. We will continue to interpel Mr Ondráček to the Minister of the Interior. Mr. Interior Minister Milan Chovanec responded to Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček's interview on the crime scene in the violent death of a man in Jihlava. Interpelation together with response shall be submitted as printing 517. I will open the debate, however, point out that the Minister of the Interior is duly excused on account of a foreign trip. Mr. MP... [[He's gesturing from a place.]] If you propose to interrupt because the Minister is absent, please use the microphone and, of course, I'll let you vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u8	Mr. Chairman, good morning. In view of the absence of the Minister, I propose that we interrupt the negotiation of this interpelation into his presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u9	Thank you. We will decide on this proposal by vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of interrupting this interpelation. Who's in? Who's against it? The vote is number 233. It's registered 96, 83 against no one. This proposal was adopted. This interpelation was therefore interrupted. We will therefore continue to interpel Mrs Jitka Chalánková. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová replied to Mrs Chalánková's interview on the future of Czech children in foster families in Norway after reaching their age. Interpelation together with response is assumed as printing 518. However, even here, Madam Secretary is duly excused. I am opening the debate and please the lady.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I see that the Minister is duly excused, yet I will not propose a suspension of this point, but also a vote on contentment or dissatisfaction, and I would like to comment in this way on the answer. Madam Secretary, I disagreed with your response to my interpellation because you seem to have misunderstood my question, or you are answering something other than what I asked. After all, in your own text, you admit that you don't know what I'm watching with my interpellation. Well, let me explain. My question was: Let's assume that Denis or David Michalákův will remain in foster care until he reaches age. They cannot be deprived of their Czech citizenship. What happens to them after they've reached age? What rights will they have in Norway as foreigners? What happens to them when the Norwegian state stops paying their foster parents generous allowances and benefits? Will foster parents have a maintenance obligation to them? Will they be entitled to security from the Norwegian State? And how will the Czech state react to them if they decide to return to the Czech Republic at the age of 18 and can't speak a word of Czech? Will the Czech State enforce civil obligations against them, such as the planned withdrawal obligation? Of course, on my part, it was just an exemplary account. The point of my question is that citizenship cannot be chosen. It's born with it and it's hard to change. We carry our nationality with us, mostly voluntarily, but it doesn't work that everyone is a national of the state in which they are located. People are very mobile today, but citizenship is a union that is relatively permanent and long-term. Its essence is loyalty to its country. Citizenship is not just about rights for citizens, but also about responsibilities. Thus, Denis and David will still be foreigners in Norway at 18 years of age. Even if they were to obtain, either voluntarily or against their will, Norwegian citizenship, it would not mean that they would lose Czech citizenship. They cannot be deprived of this in any way by the Norwegian State, because Norway is not allowed to decide on Czech nationality. It doesn't work so easily that you automatically lose your previous citizenship by earning one. That is why there are so many people with double or multiple citizenship, so there are also people without citizenship. Double citizenship then leads to legal schizophrenia and conflict of interest. For example, Minister Dienstbier is obliged to maintain his loyalty to both the Czech Republic and the United States of America, for being a citizen of the United States of America and for being a citizen of the United States of America. You say in your reply that the exemplary return of the already aged boys to the Czech Republic would be a matter of considering and weighing all circumstances, including considering language equipment. [[9.20 hours]] You say in your reply that the exemplary return of the already aged boys to the Czech Republic would be a matter of considering and weighing all circumstances, including considering language equipment. So you yourself suggest that Denis and David in Norway will gradually forget, if it has not already happened, the Czech language, and that logically it will limit their choice. With its approach, Norway effectively nationalizes Czech nationals of Czech nationality and puts pressure on them to become Nor in their adulthood. This is unfair not only to them, but also to the Czech Republic. You correctly state that it is everyone's business to decide which country he wants to live in. This results from constitutionally and internationally guaranteed freedom of residence. This right undoubtedly applies to minors, only on their behalf are the persons responsible for them. Denis and David's parental rights are still in Mrs. Michaláková's possession. Mrs Michaláková has repeatedly made it clear that she wants children to live and grow up in the Czech Republic and under Czech jurisdiction. Norway, however, effectively prevents it from exercising this parental right. These are briefly the reasons why I do not agree with the response to my interpelation and request that it be done, especially as regards the question of the legal status of Denis and David vis-à-vis the Czech Republic, not only as regards their rights but also as regards their obligations. Mr President, since I am asking here, I would like to ask for an interruption of this point in the presence of the Minister. I apologize for my information at the beginning, which I told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u11	Yes, that's possible, of course. If you wish to interrupt at this point, I'll call my colleagues. We will therefore vote on the interruption of this interpellation on the proposal of Mrs Chalánková. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees to interrupt this interpelation, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has order number 234, registered 105, for 65, against 13. This proposal was accepted and the interpellation was interrupted. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mrs Jana Černochová to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka responded to Ms Jana Černochová's interpelation on subsidies for motor sports organisations. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as a print of 520. But I do not see Mrs Černochová here, so however the Prime Minister has announced that he is on his way to respond to the interpelation, there is no interpelling Member, and therefore, under Section 112, we cannot negotiate this interpelation. So we're going to move on to the last interpellation, where I'm afraid the problem will be exactly the same. Mr Milan Chovanec, Minister of the Interior, responded to Mrs Radka Maxová's interpelation on the form of instruction for the victim or victim of a criminal offence in criminal proceedings. Interpelations shall be submitted together with a reply as press 521. But first, Minister chovanec is excused, and secondly, Mrs Maxová is not here either. That means, again, under Section 112, we cannot discuss this interpelation. I feel like we've dealt with written interpelations. On the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, which has been made to continue at 11 o'clock to discuss the law, I have no choice but to interrupt the House meeting until 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Members of the Government, we will continue to do so, by means of points 33, 34, 35, 95, 98, 102, 91, 93, 103, 97, 104 and 108. In the afternoon, we'll discuss point 170, that's oral questioning. Anyone here? Now is the time when we can negotiate to include the next points. This is Mr Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u13	Mr President, colleagues, members of the government, good morning. Thank you, and I'm sorry it's so short notice. I am addressing you on behalf of the Election Commission with a request. We would like to make a single electoral point out of the poll block, which we have decided not to assign and leave until autumn, so we would like to implement one single electoral point today after all. It is item 141 - election of members of the Supervisory Board of the State Housing Development Fund. I'll explain briefly why. With this request, I was approached by the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová with the fact that this Supervisory Board currently has only one of the five members, so it is not functional and it is not a quorum. The condition could then last until September until October. So the election committee's request is, my proposal, to include a new election point in the election of the members of the SFRB Supervisory Board. And I'd like to standardize that point as the last one before noon break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u14	Okay, thank you, last one before noon. Does anyone else have another suggestion? Yes, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u15	Thank you for the floor. We agreed on Tuesday at the political grémium of the Chamber of Deputies that we would include those points if there was a deal. The deal isn't yet. I'm not defending her, but we haven't discussed it at all. So I suggest, Mr President, if we could interrupt the House meeting for five minutes, that we, the presidents of the parliamentary clubs and one of the heads of the House, have said how to proceed in the case of this proposal by the President of the Election Commission. I think we'll be able to make a deal in five minutes if we do or not. Thank you. The absent presidents will have to send out the Vice-Presidents. There aren't many members of the MPs here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u16	Okay, I understand. Yeah, it's kind of a Tuesday deal. So I'm declaring a break until 11.07 for a meeting of the members of the MPs for a new item. If that's the way they can focus here at my place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-001-170.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. So, after a brief consultation with the club presidents, I have one proposal to complete today's programme on the election to the Supervisory Board of the State Housing Development Fund. Does anyone else have a proposal to complete our program? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote the serial number 235, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 235 of 149 for 94, against 1. The motion was accepted. Cca at 12.45, at 12.50 we would start this choice. So we're going to look at the fixed points, and the first point is point 33. It's about
