ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u1	67. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part /German press 310/ - First reading This press was dealt with on 10 December 2014 and 12 February 2015. I ask that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Mrs Jana Fischerová, who is the rapporteur, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We will therefore continue the interrupted general debate. I have two applications for it so far. First is Mr René Číp, then Mr Leo Luzar. So please Mr René Číp and Mr Luzar will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken for the second time in the debate in this press. My first performance took place at the beginning of December last year and I warned in it about the rash approval of the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. Since then, the situation in Ukraine has been still unresolved, although it has stabilized slightly lately, but is far from similar to the European standard. After all, the citizens themselves in the quotation marks of Western Ukraine, without Crimea and Donbas, are not satisfied with the procedure that has been achieved since they expected a better government without corruption, oligarchs, civil wars and the murder of civilians. And today, there are open fights between the oligarchs to maximize their influence, and, as far as corruption is concerned, there has been a live arrest during the Ukrainian government's negotiations. This should be assessed positively, I acknowledge, because the principle of falling to whom is correct. The question, however, is whether this was not just an arrest of a theatrical nature and what would emerge from it. Furthermore, the designation of President Janukovyč's unconstitutional demise as a symbol of the democratization of Ukraine and the expression of the views of the people of that country. But logically, this can be described as a coup. But objective facts should not be bent and we should all accept them in their entirety. I'd be happy to give you one such fact. It's about Crimea. Here we are often talking about Russia's historic right to this territory. Many claim that pulling historical rights into some territory is causing chaos in the world. But let's get to the bottom of this. In 1992, the Crimean Parliament declared sovereignty in the form of Ukraine, which carried out this act one day earlier. But then the pressure Kyjeva did not implement this, thus gaining the right to announce a referendum on its course at any time in the future, and this was enshrined in the constitutional law. This actually happened last year in Crimea and the referendum took place. It was successful and the day after that, he asked Crimea to join Russia, so there is no way to talk about anexi. [[Laughter and banging on the benches on the right.]] When Ukraine declared independence in 1992, it was declared that Ukraine would be a neutral state forever, and this was implemented in 1996 into the Ukrainian Constitution. So, in 1994, when Ukraine was guaranteed its borders, neutral Ukraine was guaranteed, but Ukraine, when it began to speak against the constitution in 2008, about joining NATO, acted completely contrary to the constitution, and the constitution became an irrelevant document. Today's Ukraine is divided - nationally, politically, religiously and economically. Its GDP as perhaps the only country in the former Eastern bloc today is not even reaching the figures from before the collapse of the Soviet Union. The country has once experienced a major change in the form of the Orange Revolution during its independence, but the benefits of this change were not long-lasting, as the citizens themselves decided to abolish this change in the next elections. And so I could go on and on, but I won't. I could talk about other US economic interests in Ukraine, where gas and energy are significantly involved, for example. Hunter Biden, son of a high-ranking American politician, specifically in Burisma. I could talk about how former Prime Minister Tymošenková wanted to address the situation with Ukrainian citizens of Russian nationality, with the help of nuclear weapons. I could also talk a long time about the approval of the Association Agreement in the Ukrainian Parliament, from which once again one political faction was excluded completely contrary to the Constitution, and therefore its legitimacy is quite dubious. In conclusion, however, I will not forgive myself for repeating my résumé from the first speech to this press. As elected representatives of the Czech Republic, we are responsible for the decisions we make to our citizens. At this point, I myself am not prepared to vote in favour of further Ukraine's accession to the European Union, as I do not now consider this to be a good thing for the citizens of the Czech Republic either politically or economically. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u3	Yes. Before I give the floor to Mr Luzar, there is, with priority, a request for the floor of President Schwarzenberg. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u4	Just a little reminder. On May 1, 1938, following the entry of the German army in Austria, there was a referendum on the connection of Austria to the German empire, so-called. Anšlus. Also in Crimea after the Russian army's entry, there was a referendum, which was declared here under the Constitution. Thank you very much for your information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u5	Mr Luzar with a proper application, Mr Fiedler will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs in my speech that he organised yesterday - unfortunately, I am sorry that a short - debate on Ukraine, because there are many issues that could have been raised and required an answer. I think that the situation in Ukraine will be dealt with many more times in this honored plenary, because the situation is not really good there. I may just allow myself to see the spark of hope, which is that the Minsk agreements, although broken from both sides, are still valid and the fights are still silent, people are not so massively dying on both sides, and perhaps - I will knock on the wood here - innocent people will no longer die of this conflict. So I will return to the goal of the association agreement that is before us and should be discussed. The European Union calls on countries with which it wants to cooperate to adopt certain standards and certain conditions that are quite common in Europe, so that, as a result, maybe in twenty-thirty years, the country with which the European Union is dealing is able and willing to accede to the European Community and become an equal and valid member of the European Union. [[10.10 hours]] Unfortunately, the situation in Ukraine, and now I will look away from all the political situation in Ukraine, is very complex, especially from an economic point of view and the distribution of economic forces in Ukraine. An analysis of who actually controls Ukraine's economy today, or how Ukraine is composed within nationalities, is a matter which will require quite a detailed debate in this area. I'm not gonna remind you of ownership. I will not recall the struggle for oil, for gas, for these matters, for the steel industry, for the nuclear industry. Here we must not forget that Ukraine is constantly a nuclear power, although it does not have nuclear weapons on its territory, it is able to produce them without any problem and is able to have them very quickly without a problem in my opinion. I just want to draw attention to the situation that has been with the Czech Republic for the last 15 twenty years, when the Czech Republic has been in the same position as Ukraine today, before joining the European Union. I would like to remind all Members present here how the Czech Republic and the Czech people were happy to join the European Union with some visions. The visions were very nice. We will have the same effect very quickly as our fellow citizens in the European Union. Our standard of living will rise very quickly, we will finally have a democratic establishment that will enable citizens to do everything they have not so far. Unfortunately, the same idea applies in Ukraine. An ordinary Ukrainian citizen, and I had the opportunity, I will not say with many, to meet a citizen of Ukraine who really told me in his enthusiasm how he was looking forward to the promises of the President of Ukraine that the crisis would end in 2016 in Ukraine and that the European Union would operate in Ukraine. When I told him it wasn't like that, maybe in 30 years, he didn't hear me. He said: Yes, we want to go to the European Union. We want visa-free travel. We want the opportunity to travel immediately and to take advantage of all the benefits that the European Union has to offer. Here I want to remind you of the situation that the Czech Republic experienced when we signed the association agreement. I am sure many of you will be right that today we are very often and happy to use the wording: If we have negotiated this better, we do not have you and the problems with the European Union today, we are not arguing about you and these things, and that at that time it was simply negotiated too quickly. We've signed up for something that's at a disadvantage for us at the moment. And we hear these speeches quite often here as an excuse for what the current situation is in our relations with the European Union, or our position in the European Union. Here I want to remind especially those colleagues who are considered Eurosceptics that if they want the European Union to take note that the Czech Republic is not so satisfied with its position in the European Union, they cannot vote entirely with a clear conscience in order for the Ukrainian citizen to get into an even worse position within the European Union than we were. If these honourable colleagues and colleagues vote in favour of these agreements, they cannot be a priori eurosceptic because it excludes one with another. I would like to point out that the Ukrainian citizen does not know what his government is signing, does not know what it is committed to, and merely expects a substantial improvement in its current state. And economically, the European Union is unable and, unfortunately, willing to provide this and help the Ukrainian citizen, as he expects. The disillusionment that will come in Ukraine will be huge and I fear that Majdan No. 2, 3, 4, 5, as we read in the press that there will be preparation and unrest of citizens, it will be even worse than what we experienced as Majdan No. One that contributed to some changes. I ask everyone: is the European Union ready to accept a nation with such great expectations? Deal with them, help? Is the European Union ready to release tens, perhaps hundreds of billions of euros, to help Ukraine? Or is it just a gesture that we want to do to push the big brother beyond the borders of Ukraine to the east a little bit, to tease and, in fact, the Ukrainian people are the second, third in the line to which our gestures point? These are questions that need to be clarified. I believe there will be an opportunity and that we will discuss this in detail. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u7	I have one point of fact here. Then I'll give the floor to President Schwarzenberg. Mr Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, during the performance of the previous speaker, I remembered a television report from the time apartheid fell in South Africa. At that time, they asked one of the black people what hopes they had of the fall of apartheid. And then he answered that question, looking forward to having a card to collect money from an ATM, like those cards my former ruling white community. From the speech of the previous speaker, I had the impression that in the logic of his thinking, in order not to accidentally frustrate the failure of these visions, apartheid in South Africa should still be frustrated. I think frustration from too many hopes always threatens, but it's better for people to open up that hope and give them a chance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u9	Mr Schwarzenberg, now with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u10	It is true, as one previous speaker said, that there are minorities in Ukraine and, like all minorities, they also have problems. However, it should be recalled that Ukraine is treating its minorities in a civilised way and not killing them as the Russian Federation of its minorities in the Caucasus, where there is an old war going on, and in part the nations are really decimated. It's just a little point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u11	Mr Luzar, then Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u12	Just a brief factual one. Of course, if a national minority does not have the right to use its language, it is outside the standards of the European Union and it should be corrected very quickly, as has been said in Ukraine. I don't know which state or state president will send an army against its own citizens. Even President Obama has already said that this is incomprehensible and must not happen. Still, it happened. But I don't want to argue. Compared to apartheid, I do not consider it correct, rather disproves it. If you look at South Africa today, I'm not saying that apartheid was the only and best solution South Africa could choose. I think there has been huge progress in South Africa, but it has brought such problems that many citizens of South Africa view the situation in the current state in a completely different way than a fellow speaker thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u13	Mr. Pilsner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to draw the attention of my colleague Luzar to a problem that should begin to follow. When he is concerned about minorities, notice how a minority of Crimean Tatar in Crimea is being treated. Licences will be withdrawn by the televisions to be broadcast in their language. They're unemployed. Start watching it, and we'll see to the future what the Rus care for other minorities is like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u15	Those were factual remarks. Mr Fiedler, now duly. Mr. Černoch will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good morning again. Dear colleagues and fellow Members, let us acknowledge what is causing the association agreement with Ukraine to be meaningless today. Kyjev's unsuccessful attempt to combat the conflict in the east has led the situation to an impasse. The Ukrainian armed forces were large, but when the action really took place, it turned out that they were incompetent and their command was incompetent. If they had not put emphasis on quantity but on quality, they would have a truly combatable brigade in the spring, which would probably have been easily dealt with by the germs of the uprising. [[10.20 hours]] If there were full involvement in Russia's conflict, they would, of course, not be able to face them with a small or large and incompetent army. That's why Kiev is looking for allies today. Because the government there has failed to fulfil its basic functions and is waiting for our countries, after our citizens, that we will now do some work for them. Are we taking part in the confrontation with Russia? Are we going to take on some of the Ukrainian debts? Are we going to let some of the Ukrainian unemployed join us and accept some of the refugees from eastern Ukraine? That's very nice. When Ukrainian politicians and oligarchs robbed their own country, when their incompetence and irresponsibleness brought this huge nation to the brink of civil war, she heeded the so-called. The elite in Kiev mainly about their own enrichment. When their greed, irresponsibleness and power brought the nation to its knees and the brink of an absolute economic collapse, it is a European and Czech taxpayer who is to participate in the compensation of the damage. That is our role in their plans, and we will be heading in this direction today if we vote in favour of the Association Agreement with Ukraine. Although this agreement as such is a very dull and indeterminate declaration, we, as the responsible representatives of Czech citizens, should remember how ratification of the agreement will be perceived by the very simple Ukrajinec. Their politicians and the media will do everything they can to interpret this agreement with people as almost an entry into the European Union. People there will expect a rapid opening of borders to Europe and opening up opportunities to move in with us. They will expect clear economic aid from us and a hard confrontation with Russia. And it is appropriate to make this question clear: Where is the interest of the Czech citizen in all this? Do we want to take upon ourselves in the eyes of Ukrajinec the commitments to remedy the disastrous situation in which Ukraine's last governments have put in place? Do we want to give the oligarch government there a new excuse and possibly a new culprit of their own failures? Or do we want them to stop stealing from their own citizens in the first place, I mean the oligarchs, and stop lying to them all the time? I think today is the most appropriate, if not the last possible moment, for the Ukrainian elector to realize that he himself is the architect of his own happiness. If he continues to support his oligarchs and if he continues to feed on empty revolutionary promises about a Europe that will save and pay for everything, their countries will end up in ruins. However, if the other countries of the former economic bloc are able to go through their historic journey, at least decently, as the other countries of the former economic bloc have done, they will be able to start seriously discussing the deepening of a mutually beneficial partnership with the European Union. I stress the consensus of mutually beneficial cooperation, because the agreement we are discussing today is really beneficial only for Ukrainian politicians and Ukrainian oligarchs. As one of my previous speakers, I think it was my colleague Luzar, who said that yesterday was a seminar that was very sensible, beneficial, useful. I would like to thank the Minister here for organising this seminar. It is a pity that only a small part of the Members took part in it when we were supposed to act on that day. Why am I talking about last night's seminar? We've already been there, Minister, you know, discussing it with each other, and I'm interested in something that may be known, but you reminded her publicly. Ukrainian oligarch Igor Kolomojskij, which, if you don't know that, fellow Members and fellow Members, is an oligarch who controlled a certain combatable group in Ukraine, such as, say, a private army of the size of I don't know how many, the minister reported about 1,500 troops of the unit. I am not really convinced that we should conclude some association agreement with the country where it is possible, in addition to the army called. State, regular, there were private-person armies. I cannot imagine that this is really the partner for the Czech Republic. I therefore propose that this treaty be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u17	Thank you and register this proposal. Mr. Ambassador Adam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u18	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I, as is my good habit, will be very brief and I can do this very quickly. It is clear that the debate on the European Union's association agreement with Ukraine is inseparable from the context of our relations with the Russian Federation. The day before yesterday, virtually. Three days ago, a brilliant analysis of the famous Czech economist and thinker Pavel Kohout came out on this subject. I quote, I will not forgive myself: "It seems that the Empire stands above prosperity, loyalty to the state, above democracy and patriotism, above freedom. If so, Russia's efforts to make Western countries seem futile." I don't think this is attacking Russia. Pavel Kohout refers to the thesis of the world-famous Professor Samuel Huntington, who dryly stated that there are different civilizations in this world and that is and will be a source of conflict. The West is one civilization, Russia and other Orthodox states are civilizations second, Islam or China then represent other significantly different units. That, I think, then clearly explains the escalation of the conflict in Ukraine, which now seems to be the personal struggle of most citizens of this country. Unfortunately, it is a struggle waged by various citizens on different sides of the barricades. It's a conflict arising from Euromaidan. There have been questions about going to the East or going to the West. It is a conflict that has inevitably emerged from the fact that the new Ukrainian government has tried to break the 25-year tradition of some balancing Western and Eastern interests and has decided to go in one direction without being afraid. The blood flowing there to this day is the price of this civilization choice, with which unfortunately a significant part of the citizens of Ukraine do not identify in any way. Again, this is not a value court, this is the fact before which many Czech politicians still close their eyes. Please bear this in mind in our vote. Let us bear in mind the price that we may all have to pay for trying to board this 45 million-dollar state, a failing state, into the European Community, which is already facing another sharp threat - a conflict with Islamic civilization. The Rus take this as an attack on their civilization, whether we like it or not, whether we mean it or not. This, in my opinion, is one of the most important decisions that the independent Czech diplomacy has ever made, and it is unacceptable that it does not say here how inconvenient the consequences of this decision can lead to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u19	Good morning. I thank my colleague Adam. Another duly logged in is colleague Martin Lank. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u20	Beautiful morning, Mr President, fellow Members, honourable Government. I will also try to be quite brief, but it won't make me say mine either. I ask that we consider today, when we discuss this agreement, the current consequences that it has brought us to so far. I am thinking of comparing the situation before the outbreak of the European Union association with Ukraine and the situation today. [[10.30 hours]] In 2013, we had something to do with Ukraine, which was relatively poor and disparate, but united, and from the point of view of a citizen of the European Union, a safe country. Today, however, they are suggesting that we become close to Ukraine, which is failing, and the situation in which it is situated is a security threat to all of us. And it's not just about transforming our relations with Ukraine, it's about transforming our relations with Russia. It seems that both the Kreml and Brusel are to blame for this transformation. Today, we are having a rather dubious penalty war among ourselves, which will also hardly help anything. Let's face it, the Rus are not exactly the nation that would be willing to sacrifice the welfare of an individual for the imaginary size of their state. Rather, a reduction in the real standard of living leads the local population to radicalize both the West and the government in Kiev. They expect military success from the Kremlin, and as long as it goes well with Debalcev, for example, the personal popularity of Vladimír Putin is record high. Not that I may be one of his supporters, but let us imagine that he would be forced to leave under pressure from a combination of economic downturns and the absence of military victory. I'm just afraid to guess how a radical and unpredictable ruler Putin would take over in the Kreml. So rather than sanctions and signing that association agreement with Ukraine, I recommend as a recipe a political compromise, at least until both ordinary Rus and the Kremlin government feel that we are both militarily and economically weak in Europe until they know that we do not know how to deal with our own internal problems, such as immigration and Islamic terrorism. I ask why we are making a new enemy in the form of the Kremlin with this signature today, in a situation where we are not yet able to deal with the enemy in the form of the Islamic State. Can we please be fair and square here to admit that our over-threated and partially failing and quite ununited Europe is not able to have so many confrontations and enemies at the same time? The struggle with the Islamic State and terrorism is no longer taking place on distant borders, but right in European cities and extremists around the world, Evropan are only having so much fun. I'm bohužel so. Instead of standing up to them together, we share the European and Russian team. All the better for them, radical Islamists. They will sweep us off as one team at a time, while we cannot stand up to them together and wage an economic and information war among ourselves. This is, please, the main difference between Europe before the creation of this association agreement and Europe after the signing of this treaty has broken the Ukrainian society in half. Neutral Ukraine with all the internal problems it faced in 2013 was in the interest of all of us. Torn in both political and economic terms, Ukraine of 2015 will ultimately harm everyone. First of all, it harms its own citizens. I was talking about compromise. I am referring to an agreement that is so advantageous for both sides of the conflict that it is, on the contrary, highly disadvantageous for them to resume the war. Of course, there must be painful mutual concessions. The Kremlin will not join a new territory and build a military base in Donetsk, Kiev will recognize the right of the Russian-language population of their country to educate and communicate with their authorities in Russian. Is everybody gonna like that? No, it won't! But there won't be a war, either, because that's what lives stand for. But both sides also cost unbearable sums of money. And the money? Money is counted by people on both sides of the conflict. And as money is almost always behind the emergence of war conflicts, so it can also be behind the negotiation of peace. All it takes is for the international community to push both sides to a political compromise, with one key argument: because peace pays off for you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u21	Thank you, Mr Lank. Another duly registered member is Mr Foldyna. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues, I don't think we need to lecture Ukraine and Ukrajinec about what to think or what to do at this point. I don't think that's the point of the association agreement. It's not what we're talking about, either. We should tell ourselves what we, the Czech Republic, the Czech Parliament, should do at this moment in adopting this association agreement. I recommend that we release the document to second reading and discuss in the committees the accompanying resolution in which we will write what we actually think about it at the moment. Similarly, the Slovak Parliament, which adopted an accompanying resolution supporting Ukraine's accession, has been defined in some matters against the negative phenomena that are taking place there. And I think it is our duty to mention at this point because I think we did not do so in the 1990s when conflicts were taking place in the Balkans, and we are responsible for what the situation in the Balkans is at this time. And believe me, she's not good. So I think that we should express our support for integration and democratisation processes in the accompanying resolution, we should say that Europe operates on democratic principles and cannot operate on other principles. This means, what some phenomena have done in Ukraine, this has to be rejected and described in the resolution. It should be noted that the estimates of the costs of the association agreement are 104 billion. This means that Europe will have to share 104 billion in the implementation of the Association Agreement in Ukraine. Does that mean we're ready to give the money? Will the system of Ukraine be prepared to use the money fairly and meaningfully? There are a number of things in the association agreement that have a technical character, such as promoting biotechnology in the use of agriculture. Are we ready for the use of biotechnology in agriculture in Ukraine, that is, will biologically modified products be implemented into Europe? All of this should be discussed and discussed in the Committees at second reading and adopted by the accompanying resolution. I can say for myself that in the event that we do not adopt the accompanying resolution, the association agreement with Ukraine is unvoting to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u23	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. Another, so far the last duly registered, is Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u24	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not doing any rhetorical exercises here. I just want to ask my colleagues who have decided to ratify the association agreement with Ukraine whether they have considered the economic aspect of this matter. The essence of the matter is that if joining the European Union is a wedding, then the association agreement could be likened to such engagements. And there is a question as to whether it is wise to take such a serious commitment to the Czech Republic at this point in time to a state whose fate is completely unpredictable in the near future. The European Union has already tried this with Greece and I remind you that both Greece's accession to the European Community and Greece's subsequent entry into the euro area had absolutely nothing to do with economic reality. It was purely a political decision, which, however, was one of the main reasons for the dramatic European financial crisis in 2009 and 2010, which could have resulted in the complete economic collapse of all the countries of the European Union. Ukraine has a population of over 42 million today, and today the vast majority of its citizens are drastically worse off than those of Greece's crisis. For the sake of clarity, the per capita GDP in Ukraine is four times smaller than in Greece, and the population is four times more. Ratification of this Treaty is a very serious step, and its downgrade is certainly not appropriate today. Please do not promise the citizens of this war-torn country anything that we are not ready to fulfill ourselves. Billionaire George Soros, a man who undoubtedly understands the current economic reality, said at the beginning of this year that Ukraine needs $50 billion of Western financial assistance right now, and Soros is looking at the European Union as a source of this money. The western-oriented citizens of Ukraine and the current political leaders expect the same from us today. So another question, ladies and gentlemen, whether the aspect of this matter is considered in the context of the fact that our own Republic is fighting an unstoppably rising state debt and the deficit of our budget for 2015 is CZK 100 billion. Before you vote, try to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u25	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Mr Fiedler is also duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u26	Thank you again for the floor. I would go back to what has just been said here by two previous speakers, both my Foldyna Members, and my colleague from the club Marek Černoch, and I assume that Minister Zaorálek will also comment on this, because yesterday the topic at the seminar mentioned yesterday was also discussed. The association agreement with Ukraine is a lot about finance. That's what we heard at the seminar yesterday from the Minister. I also said at the seminar, and I want to mention it here once again at the House plenary - here is a potential promise of financial assistance. It sounded from my previous speakers, no one disputes it, I also agree with this view. The European Union currently has debts vis-à-vis its own Member States on unpaid invoices for various operational programmes. Ukraine means another financial commitment. We're in debt. Whatever country of the European Union we look at, it is in debt. Don't we promise something impossible? And an even more substantial argument that I see here. If funds are rerouted to Ukraine, and that is what we were discussing at the seminar yesterday, is it money that will really end up in favour of the Ukrainian state and Ukrainian citizens? Or, for the most part, or some part, ends up in the corrupt environment of the Ukrainian mafia, oligarchy? We know that corruption is on a very high level there. And at this point, we're going to be sending in the funds. I am, of course, in favour of the Ukrainian people not suffering to help them, but I am very seriously concerned that the funds that are being mentioned here will not be entirely for the benefit of the citizens of Ukraine, but that - I am reluctant to say how much, say, a negligible proportion, a relatively significant share - they will end up in networks of corruption and oligarchy. And this isn't serious on our part. It is not serious to ourselves and it is not serious to the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u27	I thank Mr Fiedler, whose contribution has raised two factual points. First of all, the lady, Mrs Nina Nováková, is reporting with a point of fact. Then Mr Igor Jakubčík is signed in writing with a factual remark, followed by Mr Stanjura and Mr Benešík. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this association agreement is being converted by most of us into some financial figures. However, I would like to point out that, at the very beginning of this proposed association agreement, there is also a declaration that wants to show that we see Ukraine as part of Europe. I would also like to say that the citizens of Ukraine are not just the oligarchs you are constantly referring to. And when we make a request to Ukraine to deal with the oligarchs first, we should also look at our own country. Above all, if we want to help Ukraine recover, we should show those ordinary ordinary people that we see them as part of Europe, because they feel that way themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u29	Thank you, Mrs Nováková. Mr Igor Jakubčík, followed by Mr Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a lot of contributions here, and I can only say one thing - I agree with more or less only one, I agree with my colleague, Foldyna. When we were discussing the association agreement with Georgia, I said here that the association agreement is not accession, the association agreement is not accession. It's just preparation and it's just an option, and it's a very strong and good opportunity for a state that wants to approach, to push in a certain way. Push to improve his economy to improve the fight against corruption, simply to make it a civilized European Western state. I agree with my colleague Foldyna on this - let's play it at first reading. Let's put it on the committee. Let us adopt not just one, two, three, a few resolutions, but let us just drop it so that we can continue to discuss this in the committees so that we can discuss it in the committees. This will signal not only Ukraine, but also the whole of the European Union that we are a state that is able and willing to discuss, is able and willing to allow other states to come forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u31	I thank Mr Jakubčík. Mr Benešík and Mr Stanjura with the right of priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u32	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, as my colleague Jakubčík has already said, as Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, I will report for work and we would like this association agreement to be put on the committee, although it is not likely to be the main and the first, the Committee on European Affairs. [[There's been a lot of unpleasant noise in the room.]] I am convinced of this, and I think that the proposal for this agreement really is that any assistance to Ukraine must be subject to reforms that minimise the possibility of this aid being stolen. And I think that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u33	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I have to interrupt you for a moment. I ask various associations of debate, discussion and others to dissolve or to go into the foyer. Thank you. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u34	I really believe that this is a means of legally committing Ukraine to becoming a stable country, a country that has a system that makes it impossible to rob, which makes it impossible to eat its own citizens. And Ukraine will just have to do its homework. In our interest, Ukraine should be stable. I do not know what is in Russia's interest, but in our interests is certainly a stable Ukraine, with which we can trade and with which we can count. And as far as the possible costs of the European Union for this process are concerned, I know that this is a hypothetical question, but let us think about how much the European Union will cost if Ukraine is not stable. From my point of view, it could be a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u35	Thank you, Mr Benešík. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Citizen's Democratic Party Citizen's Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear government, colleagues, my performance will be brief and clear. I want to tell the government and the Minister that he can count on our votes at first reading, in committees and at second reading. We citizens will vote in favour of this association agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u37	Thank you to President Stanjur. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. One more - Vice-President Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u38	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I have been in the Group of Friends of Ukraine for a long time, I have a number of personal friends there, not only in Kiev, but also in other parts. All I would like to say on this subject outside of what I said in the first part of the discussion is that we should not raise vain hopes. Jean-Claude Juncker, when he took power in the European Commission, said that during his presidency, Europe would not be extended to any other state. This means that no other state will enter the European Union for five years, although the European Union would certainly be able to decide by its funds to adopt, for example, Montenegro, which, among other things, is already paying the euro. [[10.50 hours]] But as for what I said at the beginning - incrimination of vain hope. I also wish Ukraine to remain a stable European state, a stable European nation, but I think that those who talk about the need to stabilise financially should also talk about who has caused the financial instability, the disruption, and the demand for those who have caused it. In this respect, I do not think that the current association agreement is an expression of the will of all European nations. In this respect, let me remind you of what I have said several times recently. I listened to Mr George Friedman's press conference in Chicago on 3 February, which said that it was in the US's vital interest not to allow stability in Europe, and especially not in the normal relations between Europe and Russia, that it was in the interests of the United States of America so that Europe would not be stable, because it would threaten America's economic and power interests. I therefore ask who is behind the argument with Russia, with Ukraine, with another European state, and how Europe should proceed. Is Europe to be a sovereign international political entity, as the European Union declares, or is it to be the entity that is subject to the opinion of our allies behind the Atlantic? I believe that stability is Europe's real concern. The stability of these relationships. It must depend on whether Europe will continue to have resources for its own stabilization, whether it will have resources to change its economic potential at all, not just as a grain of Europe, but as a significant industrial state. It is unclear to me here how we will respond to the Ukrainian leadership that we will not be able to pay their debts, which we have not done. When the former President of Ukraine decided to accept the European proposal that he would be stabilized 600 miles. EUR or if 12 billion will be stabilized. $2 billion, so he decided on the 12 billion. Dollars and he's been recalled, he's been overthrown by Majdan. I don't blame him for choosing 12 billion. dollars, because 600 miles. Indeed, the euro is much less than 12 billion. dollars. And in that respect, I'm asking who else is going to offer a place of 600 miles. EUR 12 billion. Dollars and who's gonna pay them. Will the Ukrainian oligarchs pay for them? They'll pay for it. The United States of America, or will the European taxpayer pay it? That's what we're discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u39	I thank Vice-President Filip. Now, with Mrs Wernerová's point of fact? No, it's not a factual point. President of the TOP 09 Karel Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u40	Mr President, honourable Members, the question has been asked here who has disrupted the Ukrainian economy. Then I can only tell you one thing. If the Czech Republic had experienced that it had been lifted up several times in ten years and then reduced the price of oil and gas once again, if the main exports had been stopped, as if Germany had stopped our exports, the Russian Federation had done so, stopped Ukraine's exports to Russia for some time and supported the most corrupt politicians available in Ukraine, it would dismantle - sorry - every economy, not just Ukrainian. So only that is the answer to why the Ukrainian economy was torn down. We have to realize that. The war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine's complete independence has been going on for ten or twelve years. This is clear to everyone who has watched the events, and this is what we need to be based on. Yes, I agree, it will be expensive to keep Ukraine free and on a democratic path and in friendship with the European Union. Yes, it's gonna be expensive, but it's in our own goddamn security interest. First of all. Secondly, it will provide us with the same economic possibilities as the Rakušan, the Němec, and others made substantial economic profits in that the Iron Curtain was abolished and they could with their neighbours, Maďar, Čech, Polák etc. cooperate. So, of course, it will also help us economically when Ukraine gets on its feet and starts importing the necessary machines, etc. It'll be good for us, too. It's in our security, but it's also in our economic interest for Ukraine to get better, but it's going to cost some money. Big marshal Montecuccoli discovered 300 years ago: you need three things for war - money, money, and money again. And while the Russian Federation is waging war against Ukraine, so it will also cost us money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u41	I thank President Schwarzenberg. With a factual remark, Vice-President Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u42	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Madam and gentlemen, I will only briefly respond to the words of President Karel Schwarzenberg. I have been riding regularly, it has been really twenty years, to Ukraine, and I must say that every month honestly, for my clients in the Czech Republic and in the Federal Republic of Germany, and as an attorney already in 1995 I said that the state would be permanently ahead of the coup d'état. Because, you are right, the price of oil and gas has changed, but it has always been at the most half of the market price bought by other European countries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u43	I thank my colleague Filip. I ask if anyone else is reporting to the debate before the final words of the rapporteur and the Minister. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I will ask the Minister for the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u44	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I could speak very passionately, dramatically here, I could yell at you, as some of you do, I could call you "understand" here, and the likes of Mr Stanjura, but as Čtvrtníček says, I will do no such thing, I will not choose this dramatic tone of speech and, on the contrary, I will speak quite gently, calmly and basically almost flattened. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Thank you for the applause. I will only actually respond to a few comments that have been made here during the debate. I am glad that some Members took advantage of the invitation and that yesterday at the joint seminar we could also conduct this discussion outside the premises of the House. I really appreciate the people who accepted the invitation, so I have a simpler situation. Look, it might have been said here that we're taking on a commitment and if we're aware of that commitment. One of the MPs here came running up to me and asked terrifiedly, "Didn't they even read the association agreement? I don't think that's true, most of you have read the association agreement, and if she hasn't read it, she's gonna read it now because we're gonna send it to the committees. So if you read the deal, you'll actually find that most of the liabilities are mainly taken on by the Ukrainian party itself. Those are the liabilities she claims. Mr. Foldyna actually said it well because he said: What are we supposed to tell the Ukrajinec what to do? Many of these things - let's be careful about it, it's a sovereign state, and it just does things its own way. Then I'll say it. [[11.00 hours]] Look, take Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk in 1918 when a separate Czechoslovak state was created. If you recall, then it seemed to fall apart on the edge of the country, and I remember Masaryk sending armed forces there and pushing it rather hard. I didn't notice anyone in this country saying that Masaryk failed at the beginning of the Czechoslovak state when he severely suppressed all attempts to break the state. It's true, isn't it? Does anyone feel Masaryk failed in 1918? I'm asking the House, but I'm not screaming. [[Fun in the hall.]] In 1938, let me remind you, fellow Members, that there was also a very serious border riot under the pretext of minority rights, if I remember correctly. Maybe some of you don't know, but we sent an army there and there were dozens dead because we held the territory of the Czechoslovak state. And I also don't recall saying in our memories and history that that's when we failed to hold the territory of the state as we fought it out. I'm saying this to point out that it's not so easy to tell the state what to do or not to do when it's a sovereign state, and we think of it as a sovereign state. So when Ukraine takes on commitments by this association agreement, it means that it says yes, you will have the right to speak to us in these matters, because we want to trade with you, we want to work with you politically, and we are taking on these obligations and we are willing to change those things. Let me just say one thing here. I believe that in Ukraine the situation has changed compared to Janukovyčův's regime, when we experienced politicians at the time who told us they wanted to go to the European Union, and they said they wanted to go to NATO, and they told us all this, many of you remember. But I don't think there was a real will to take on those obligations at the time. Today I can tell you that Mr Bohuslav Sobotka and I have attended negotiations with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Maroš Ševčovič, who has given us information about how it looks in the energy sector in Ukraine and informed us about how the principles of energy policy to which Ukraine undertakes to respect them are respected. He even told us that he was convinced - we have our controllers here today on how Ukraine's gas is going through - that Ukrajinec are not going to take the gas that belongs to Europe today. And he even said, come on, they have a basic ally in Europe today, so they can't afford to cheat the ally in any way. I say this as an example of the fact that today the will to respect commitments in Ukraine is greater than ever before. I could read you here the passage of the Association Agreement, which, for example, concerns energy trade, and there Ukraine undertakes to respect the rules that it will respect the rules in terms of price, etc., in a way that has never been the custom in Ukraine to respect. So I'm saying this because the pressure is bigger than ever. It was said here that there are high expectations in Ukraine. You're right, and I think these concerns are perfectly justified. There are indeed great expectations. But I can assure you of one thing, that everyone who goes there - I've been there seven times and there are others, like Commissioner Hahn and others who have been there even more, of course - and we all repeat that this is really just an association agreement. We all repeat that Ukraine has unimaginable challenges ahead of it and that until it can demonstrate that it can change, transpose its economy, handle money, level of corruption, there is no point in talking about anything else. I simply, my friends, swear to you that Commissioner Johannes Hahn, who is involved in this, is a hard Commissioner, one that Europe did not have in its dealings with Ukraine, and makes it clear to the Ukrajinec that if they are not willing to do what they are committed to, we will not be able to talk about any assistance. Today, if they don't deliver what's on their side, it's not true that money will flow to Ukraine. We politicians represent the public not only in the Czech Republic but also in other countries. And not only in the Czech Republic, nobody wants money in their pockets of oligarchs. It's something that's unheard of. That won't take the public in any country. You see, building Ukraine as a state to help, and there will be a group of chosen ones masturbating their pockets - I don't have to be a Social Democrat to tell you that I'm not gonna assist with this. Of course not. And we're responsible for that. And I'm telling you, I'm far from feeling alone in this. This is the new consciousness that exists, and don't imagine that Europe is just waving its hand today and saying, so send it to them, seal the holes, we don't care what happens. I assure you that the situation has really changed and that the current political representation - none is perfect, that is clear, but such a will to change something in my opinion has never been in Ukraine before. This is where you said there'd be another Maidan in a minute. I have also often asked that question in Ukraine, and I can tell you that there is a broad awareness in Ukraine that if Maidan comes again, it is simply with Ukraine all screwed up. You see, the moment the riots start again, everyone knows the moment we say: this government is wrong too, so everyone will lose their patience with Ukraine, their own people, Evropa, all of them. That's just what they know. Support, the current support of this government is quite strong, including President Porošenko. And when I asked the Ukrajinec, they all said to me, we know, he's not perfect, etc. But he believes in his basic attempt to change the situation in a way that will be absolutely clear and clear. So I'm not going to tell you here - far from being able to do all the things that Ukraine is supposed to do today. But I still think I'm giving a true testimony here that what's going on here today isn't such a simple black and white process, and it's definitely not that we might think that we're making peace with the fact that it's gonna fit back into those old rotten tracks in a little while. It's not true. I believe that in committee debates and elsewhere, we will have more time to talk about these specific things. I even think that many of the concerns that are raised here are perfectly legitimate and legitimate, because there is a legitimate concern about what we are entering into. This country is in a very bad state economically and politically and to ask what the point is, if we know we have a goal - these are all questions that are perfectly fine. All I can say is that I am also available to my deputy committees, so that we can do this, so that we can have a serious conversation about all these things. Nevertheless, I believe that this is essential - to embark on this agreement and ratify it, that there are sufficient reasons for this. At this point, it is actually the majority of the countries of the European Union that have approved the agreement in an overwhelming way, and it is not because Members in those countries are not interested or limited. This is because the arguments are clear. We are interested in consolidated Ukraine, stabilized by Ukraine. We all know that the opposite development would endanger us all, the Czech Republic too, which is even very close to the process. If it falls apart, it'll fall on us. And we are taking a step here to try to commit Ukraine in a way that will lead to reforms and transformation, which will bring great stability to Ukraine, not only to the oligarchs, but above all to the majority of the population. And another one, my friends. You're all talking about the expectations. To tell you the truth, people who had high expectations in Ukraine a year ago now also have a great sadness and a great sense of frustration over how things are going there. This means that there is not only great expectations from Europe, there is also a feeling that no one can help us anymore and that we will hopefully never get out of it. The situation is difficult, there's a lot of despair, there's suffering, there's a lot of families hit by war in the east of the country. So I understand the questions that have been asked here, but I would like to appeal to admit that the situation in Ukraine is not so black and white even in terms of feelings. I think we have only one way - to try to help this test country find itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u45	I thank the Minister for his final word. I will now ask the rapporteur and her final word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will now follow up, ladies and gentlemen, on the words of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I must say, as he spoke, he spoke to me from the soul in many ways. To begin with, as rapporteur for this press 310, I will say this with a clear conscience that I have an opinion after all the posts - some of them have been going around in one corner over and over again, but more or less, I felt that we were here, Members and Members who wanted to lend a helping hand to our colleagues in Ukraine. [[11.10 hours]] As the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, there are now many states that have ratified this treaty, so I will sum up as rapporteur how many of these states are at the present date. That hasn't happened here today. That's what I was listening to. No one's said that yet. As of 30. 3. I have a record, that was 17 states. For information, I'll read them to you in alphabetical order. Bulgaria, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Croatia, Ireland, Lithuania, Latvia, Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta, Germany, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia and Sweden. I also had the opportunity to act within the V4. I just know that today is the Prime Minister's meeting on the V4 on the future of our state to the Presidency from 1. 7. and within the V4 we also had a meeting, it was at the end of last year. We have touched on the topic of V4 and Ukraine. That's what I think is one of the topics that is very appropriate, up-to-date, and there it was that we were going on this together. And here I want to say out loud that we really are the last of the V4s we haven't ratified yet. Please, it was the 4th of September of last year when this press arrived in the House. How much time has passed in the meantime. Meanwhile, Senate 10. 12 has ratified this Treaty. But I think it's high time we let it go further today, because when I named you the other states that discussed it, I had the opportunity in Germany to talk to the Foreign Committee President about it, and he said, yes, we are discussing it, and to this day the discussion is already there and Germany has agreed to this. Our President, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, said quite briefly and clearly what the Civil Democratic Party stands for, and when I think of it, when it was discussed in general a year ago and at all about the situation in Ukraine, the Civil Democratic Party was the one who wanted us to comment on it, to be helpful and, above all, to submit to the debate. So I'm glad we're coming to an end today. I, as rapporteur, do not want to extend my speech, but I will say in conclusion that I think, and I will recommend it to the Minister, because we talked about it. As the terms run, the date for the 20th May of this year is close to the meeting of the highest heads of state. It'll be in Riga right now, where the Prime Minister will be. And I would like to propose this, but the Minister must agree to do so in order for everything to be done by this 20 May, so to shorten this time for committee discussions to 40 days. So this is what I think would be important for us to make it to the deadline. Finally, as rapporteur for this press, I recommend that we proceed to committee meetings. I'm going to sum up the performance that took place. We really have already acted 10. 12., then we acted 12. 2. The contributions were countless. Yesterday was the seminar, and today was the fourth session, which is taking place, the first reading, and I believe we will move on. There was also a motion today to reject it at first reading. It was from Mr. Karel Fiedler's mouth. And I suggest that we shorten the deadline, but I say the petitioner must agree. And I also recommend the commandment to the Foreign Committee. By one more motion to discuss the Committee on European Affairs, I summed it up in a nutshell. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u47	I thank the rapporteur. I see the Minister is reporting. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u48	Yes. I am joining the motion for proposals to vote on the reduction of the deadline to 40 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u49	The Minister has now ripped the thorn out of our heel, because he has opened up a debate with his speech in which a proposal should be made for -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u50	In the debate that I have opened, perhaps I can propose 40 days of shortening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-004-067.u51	Yes. That's a nice suggestion you've made, Minister. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. If not, I am done with the debate. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I'll tell you that the Home Secretary has a spare card number 10. Mr Fiedler's motion to dismiss, which we will be voting on, has fallen. There's an application for check-out. I hereby remove you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the rejection of the Government proposal by which the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Community and Ukraine is tabled. I am opening the vote on the motion to dismiss. Whoever is in favour of rejection, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 85, 149 Members and Members registered, for 31, against 107. The motion to dismiss has not been accepted. Furthermore, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. The rapporteur has also proposed a discussion of the Committee on European Affairs. I'm asking if anyone else has any other suggestions. It's not like that. So we're going to vote. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this press to discuss the foreign committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 86; 156 Members and Members are registered, for 154, against none. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the commandment of this press to the Committee on European Affairs, as proposed by the rapporteur. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favour of the commandment of the Committee on European Affairs, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 87; 157 Members and Members are registered, for 151, against none. The proposal was also accepted. There is also a proposal from the Minister to shorten the deadline to 40 days for discussion. Isn't that right, Minister? [[Yes.]] I am opening the vote on a motion to shorten the time limit for discussion to 40 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 88, 155 Members and Members registered, for 112, against 31. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Foreign Committee, the Committee on European Affairs, and we have reduced the time limit for discussion to 40 days. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. The next item is item 79, which is
