ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u1	32. Government bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on higher education institutions and on the amendment and addition of other laws (the Higher Education Act), as amended, and some other laws /German press 464/ - first reading I would ask that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Mihola, take their seats at the rapporteur's table. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek. Minister, when the House calms down, I will give you my word immediately. I ask colleagues who are discussing a different text than the 464 press to do so in the foyer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with the amendment to the Higher Law, which has been going on for several years, and I have worked on this amendment and many of my predecessors. I have followed up on the work of my predecessors in this area because I think that there was a good basis, and let me take this opportunity to thank my predecessors, including Mr Fiala, who have done a really great deal of work there, on which we have also been able to follow up with the various rectors. This amendment was really precised with the participation of both representatives, whether it is the Council of Higher Education or the Czech Rectors' Conference. A large number of experts were involved, and it is clearly supported by its resolutions by both the Czech Rectors' Conference and the Higher Education Council. The Government approved this proposal on 30 March 2015. Now allow me to stop at least for the most important changes in my short performance. The first of these changes is a new system for ensuring the evaluation and quality of higher education institutions, with it being divided into internal and external quality assessments. Internally, it will remain at the level of the university, while respecting legislation within its own self-government, which only lays down the necessary framework. The external quality assessment will then be carried out by the newly established National Accreditation Office for Higher Education, and will be followed by a new accreditation system. The Act lays down rules for accreditation of study programmes and introduces an institutional accreditation system to be granted for a period of 10 years. Another important change is the creation of the National Accreditation Office for Higher Education, the creation of conditions for its independent professional activity and decision-making within accreditation. The Chair shall be headed by two Vice-Presidents and the Executive Body shall be an accreditation board composed of fifteen members. Another important change is the setting of conditions for the provision of foreign higher education in the Czech Republic, regulation of the position and operation of foreign universities and their branches, which have not yet been regulated by law. Another point, very significant, is the refusal of university diplomas and professorships. [[removal]] Of course, it concerns the regulation on the annulment of the test carried out. The management will be under the responsibility of the relevant Rector. Furthermore, the amendment specifies the procedure for the appointment of professors by being appointed at least twice a year, and further precises the whole process under which the proposal of the scientific or artistic council of a specific university, which makes this proposal, can be returned. There is a whole new position of an extraordinary professor who will be associated with a specific institution, and this extraordinary professor will not have to meet the conditions for a professor and professor. The area of this law also deals with increasing social scholarships. This proposal includes an increase in social scholarships paid by universities, namely an increase from CZK 1,620 to CZK 2,100 per month. Furthermore, this proposal already makes a number of minor modifications and changes, the introduction of the application management register, the register of artistic outputs of universities and study programmes, and all the changes that have been set up have been set up for a better process of the whole system of higher education. In conclusion, let me ask you to support this bill, so that it passes into second reading. At the same time, I say here also the promise that the Committee and the proposals of the various implementing decrees will be submitted in the second reading, so that we can discuss not only the law but also the implementing decrees. Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u3	I thank the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek, and before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I will state an apology to the President of the House from Mr Ivan Gabal, who apologizes from 17 o'clock to the end of the day. I therefore now ask the rapporteur, Mr Jiří Mihola, to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u4	Mr President, fellow Members of the Government, I will limit myself to a brief summary of some of the most important things and a few comments on the amendment to the Higher Law, because the Minister has reminded all the important things here and I would not like to repeat myself literally. To begin with, as rapporteur, this comprehensive amendment to the Higher Education Act is indeed in line with the legislative work plan and with the Government's programming statement, and also because I, as Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Science and Higher Education, have been repeatedly present for discussions over this amendment, I can say or say that it is in line with representatives of the Czech Conference of Rectors and the Council of Higher Education. Key topics that the draft law contains, i.e. the introduction of a new system of evaluation of the quality of universities and its connection with the activities of the National Accreditation Office, the adaptation of new rules for accreditation of study programmes and the introduction of an institutional accreditation system, the creation of conditions for independent professional decision-making on accreditations. The Act regulates the status and competence of the Accreditation Office and defines its relations with the Government and the Ministry of Education, the status and operation of foreign universities and their branches in the territory of the Czech Republic, the conditions of the examination procedures for declaring the invalidity of the state examination or its component or the defence of the dissertation work and the annulment of the habilitation proceedings, the increase of social scholarships, the possibility of setting up scientific and research institutions by universities, and the introduction of a register of works of art, universities, lecturers and professors. Now to comment on this government proposal or amendment to the Higher Law. I see a contradiction here, as part of the discussion, with the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. The problem without a clear solution is the proposed possibility of public universities establishing scientific and research institutions, as I have already stated. The Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic is now objecting to this intention. On the other hand, the possibility of setting up these university scientific research institutions would help the current centres of excellence, which range e.g. under the corporate regime. Then there is rather a small matter, but there is a contradiction with the Ministry of Health, where students should, according to the Ministry of Health, document the requirements of the university for medical fitness of a doctor who confirms the qualifications. There is therefore a counterargument of the Ministry of Education, which says that doctors can look up these facts themselves. [[12.50 hours]] There was a connection with the previous Minister of Education, Prof. Fiala. However, the requirement of multiannual or contract funding for universities fell entirely out of the bill. In terms of managing the flow of public finances, I think the requirement for multiannual funding is appropriate. However, at the same time, I also see that higher education leaders do not want this at the moment or insist on it. The question of social scholarships, which I also remembered, is not systemic in the Higher Education Act. It should rather go into the Gesture of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and become part of the benefits of state social support. This view was originally held by the Czech Rectors' Conference due to administrative burden, but it changed this view and the transfer to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is no longer required. The question of allocation of funds in the state budget is likely to be the reason for this. And then the issue of accreditation and private schools. Simplifying the current state of accreditation by introducing institutional accreditation into the field, especially for large public universities, eliminating the need for accreditation of each individual study programme. The risk of seeking institutional accreditation by a small private university is limited by strict conditions for obtaining institutional accreditation and restrictions for cooperation with another university. Finally, I would recommend adopting an amendment to the Higher Education Act at first reading and suggest that it be discussed in the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate in which I have several applications. We're gonna have to stop the debriefing before noon. The first with priority rights is the President of the ODS, Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that I can truly confirm the Minister's words that there is a continuity in the preparation of the amendment to the Higher Education Act in this case, and that is so good because in the field of education, a number of measures which are not of an ideal nature should be taken across the political spectrum and continuous work should be taken for granted. I am also pleased to note that the draft amendment, as it was submitted, contains a number of key elements that we prepared in 2012 and 2013 with my team at the Ministry of Education and which we prepared in a very intensive debate with university representatives. This is also reflected in the fact that the Czech Rectors' Conference significantly supports the adoption of this amendment, which is undoubtedly a new phenomenon in terms of the history of attempts to reform the higher education environment. What was left or contained in the amendment was mentioned here by both the Minister and the President of the KDU-ČSL. It is above all a new system of accreditation of universities, which is a matter which will certainly improve the quality of teaching in universities, improve the educational process at individual universities, and it is an issue which is extremely important for the Czech education system. This is linked to the creation of a new accreditation body, which will significantly reduce bureaucracy, simplify the whole accreditation process and create more scope for monitoring or monitoring the quality of higher education institutions, which at the moment the accreditation committee does not have such an option. The amendment creates premises for other things that are very important for the development of our tertiary education system, e.g. For the merger and cooperation of universities, it also opens up our teaching choirs in universities, whether from practice or from abroad, by creating a position of extraordinary professor, who is known by other higher education systems and our higher education system does not know it. I, of course, when I name the important things here and when I commend what is left of the law, I also have to express some skepticism over some things, but they do not outweigh the positive impression of the overall proposal. The skepticism concerns, for example, a number of new registers. Here we will now have registers of proceedings on applications for recognition of foreign higher education and qualifications, register of universities and programmes of studies carried out, register of artistic outputs and school records of artistic outputs, etc. etc. Of course, some records, for example in the case of artistic performances, are certainly appropriate. The question is whether this amount of registers will really help anything and whether the funds will be spent on them wisely. We must be very careful about one point that I am not in principle against, but where I really warn about some too extensive interpretation, and that is the regulation of branches of foreign universities. This caution is also appropriate because higher education is, by its very nature, international and we must not make a mistake that we should re-regulate the whole system simply because a branch of a foreign university does not have to act entirely correctly. At the end of my supporting speech, I would like to draw attention to one thing I will do when we discuss the second reading of this law. Although I warn and warn repeatedly about making too many amendments here, which will change the substance and break the consensus that exists now, I will put forward one amendment. It corresponds to what I have been saying in higher education in the long term and what is consistent with the current situation, and this will be a change in the way professors are appointed. I'm known to be in favour of establishing functional positions. This amendment does not contain and probably will not contain. I want to take a step towards this goal and at the same time remove the permanent problems that the professor candidates have recently had through behavior, unacceptable behaviour, the President of the Republic. So I'm going to make an amendment so that the power to appoint a professor belongs to the rector of the university at which the professorship proceedings will take place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u7	I thank Mr Petr Fial. And given the time until noon break, I will ask my colleague Rais not to perform again and keep his appearance for the continuation of the negotiations. I think it would be undignified, Professor, for this to be the way to address your speech to this press. I'll hold the meeting until 14.32. I'm calling an organizational committee at 13.05, which is planned. Colleague Sklenák still reporting for action? No. We will continue with a fixed point at 14.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we will continue to discuss paragraph 32, which is a government bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll. on Higher Education. This item was interrupted in the general debate when Mr Fiala spoke, and another item was Mr Rais. So I will give the floor to Mr Rais and Mrs Putnová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u9	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that, although there is hardly anyone here, I would like to say that - for a) - I certainly did not write from anyone. If my colleague Putnová, who's from the same faculty as me, uses quotes there, that's a match. It's just a purely random similarity, and the things you're going to hear here are going to happen again, because there's been a series of futile attempts to transform our higher education system since 2009. So since 2009, when the White Paper was published, we have witnessed several more or less successful attempts to transform. First of all, it was an attempt to reform the entire tertiary education based on the White Paper, then narrow the problem only to transform higher education, and then, as ministers came, they left, so it was actually an attempt to propose a new law on higher education only in the form of an amendment. So some of these amendments were not even approved by Parliament. So in some such transformational despair, we are still working today, and it is a shame. I think the resort deserves a decent transformational complex change. The quality of our higher education in international comparison is constantly decreasing, which is what the ratings show. A number of good ideas from several so-called individual national programmes, which would certainly improve the existing higher education system and ensure a smooth transfer, for example, of innovation from universities to practice, remain only on CDs or printed manuals, and I think it is a shame, of course, because these things have been tested in the form of pilot projects. The submitted amendment, which "went" to Parliament today, is the result of a number of difficult compromises between the interest groups of the higher education system, especially between the Czech Rectors' Conference, the Higher Education Council and the Ministry of Education. From my point of view, this is a rather deboned and toothless work, whose practical implementation will be greatly influenced by sub-law standards, especially by government directives, many of which are unknown today, as we have discussed several times with the Minister. I consider partial reinforcement of the Rector's powers in relation to faculties to be some minor progress compared to today's legislation, because the Rector has to propose where he wants to entrust powers to faculties, following the approval of other higher education institutions, of course, that is, the Senate. But in a way, that paragraph means restricting faculty rights and increasing the centralization of school management into the hands of the rector. Of course, faculty management doesn't like that. Partially, from my point of view, a small strengthening of the powers of the Board of Directors of the College, which, according to the proposed amendment, can approve the budget, but the academic Senate can overrule it. As has been said here, tightening up the operation of branches of foreign universities, i.e. by clarifying the higher market, I think that is a step in the right direction. Of course, it mustn't go too far, to say the least. Then I consider it positive that students will be able to study second and other study programmes without charge if the previous study programme has been successfully completed. This is related to the existence of inter-branches and also to the fact that one type of education may not be enough for life nowadays. However, the amendment also has a number of shortcomings. That traditional one of mine... I consider one of the major shortcomings to be the fact that the amendment tabled to Parliament is not linked to an analysis of the current situation. The last comprehensive analytical work was carried out between 2004 and 2006 on the occasion of the cooperation of the international project with OECD experts and they also subsequently participated in the production of the White Paper on tertiary education. Since then, partial work has been carried out, but complex analyses that would be carried out... The left side doesn't care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u10	Yes. I'll ask the left side to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u11	I'd quite like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u12	But there's most of them on the left side again, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u13	Well, it is, but it's also the loudest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u14	No, that was an exaggeration on my part. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u15	Okay. That's not my problem. That's your problem. I've had enough of mine, as you've seen this morning. So, since then, analytical work has been done, but these have all been partial, which have been concentrated on one thing. I believe that this is a systemic deficiency where some really analytical expert analysis needs to be carried out and put together with the Ministry of Education's strategic development guidelines, and unfortunately this has not happened. We're constantly hearing that there's no funding in the college system. And these lamentations are linked to a reality that is in some cases - but I stress in some cases that it is not misinterpreted - which is different. If I are to paraphrase the statement of one earlier policy from the left side of the spectrum, then one can say: there are resources in the university environment. The second thing about teaching is how they are handled. The extraordinarily great burden of direct teaching not only leads to bifling and soulless mentoring by students who do not develop their personalities, but in particular puts great demands on faculty wage costs. The reduction in direct teaching, the 24-hour subsidy, 20-hour weekly, was the strategic objective of many universities ten 15 years ago - and let us look at today's reality. To this extent, teaching provides a relatively comfortable life for people who might not make a living in practice. Compared to Western universities, we clearly have twice the cost of teaching. We need twice as much direct teaching for the same degree as, for example, English universities, which is particularly spicy in organising the few real study programmes that some Czech universities have with foreign universities. Why is that? Well, because we don't act managerially, because we're in the position of the Labor Office many times, where we ensure their existence for individuals without publishing and scientific activity. And let's look at the structure of the deputies in the academic senators. The university, which employs thousands of employees, of which hundreds of professors and professors, has a similar structure for these representatives in academic senators. Another discrepancy. The same length of the term of office of top academic officials of higher education institutions. That's four years and members of the academic senate three years. In this situation, it can happen, and often it has happened that the academic Senate, which has elected the rector or dean of the faculty, ends its activities in the course of their work and is replaced by a new one with more or less alternate members after the election. The question is whether the Rector or Dean can work well with or fight the newly composed Senate. And that's all for a formal matter. The term of office of the Rector or Dean is not aligned with the term of office of the Senate, which we could easily resolve with amendments. Why are these and similar organizational matters not in the proposed amendment? For other disadvantages I see: the rigid definition of a university academic worker, which does not allow greater involvement of experts from practice to higher teaching positions. This is a huge minus, and if we were talking about extraordinary professors, I would like to point out to the Minister that there was a difference between an extraordinary professor and a professional professor. That's a big difference. The special workers are here. This was also made possible by the previous higher education law. [[14.40 hours]] Conditions for foreign experts make internationalization of Czech universities and their cooperation with renowned foreign universities difficult. At a time when we invested billions of crowns in research centers, it is necessary to create conditions to obtain easily really good foreign experts. The main profiling objects must not only be guaranteed in the Master's Studio, but also teach the Czech lecturer or professor. A foreign expert with a corresponding title must undergo Czech habilitation proceedings, which is in a way ridiculous. They are more renowned foreign experts than members of the Scientific Council of the High School who decide on this matter. There's a lot of things I think we need to do here. Then what was also said here, any study programme related to the security of the Czech Republic, crisis management, will have to be approved by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence in addition to the accreditation office. This could describe the shortcomings of the proposal quite a lot. From media-interesting cases, I'd like to mention a hand-off or absolving of academic freedoms here, and that's what I would point to in the case of the appointment of professors as president of the Republic. I believe that if the academic community represented by the Scientific Council of the University shows its willingness to appoint a specific lecturer for its lifelong teaching and scientific research work as professor, then we should not give this appointment process outside the university environment. It's obvious that this is a nonsystemic step when the entire professorship process takes place within the department...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u16	I apologize and ask the left side of the House again for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u17	I understand for these ladies that they've only been here three days, and they haven't been able to tell each other what they wanted since Sunday, but... Al! It is therefore clear that this is a non-systemic step when the entire professorship process takes place within the department and then, when the proposal for appointment occurs at the Ministry of Karmelitska, figuratively speaking, officials run with it to the monarch. I think we should develop and support academic freedoms rather than get rid of them because of the dubious glaze of one-off communication with the president. This ritual, which brings us closer to the Byzantine and Eastern countries today, rather than to the traditional university countries of Europe, such as Europe. Italy or England, in my opinion, could remain on university grounds. In general, universities should be more open and not shut down in front of the outside environment and surroundings. This year's technical education is especially for technical and natural sciences faculties a year of extraordinary opportunities for cooperation with the industrial sphere. But, of course, universities in other fields should not be closed. So I can sort this out somehow. I believe that the time between the first and second reading of the amendment should actually be used for intensive discussion between Members, between the Ministry's staff and, in particular, representatives of the academic public, to present and assess a number of proposals which, figuratively speaking, into a toothless dog, which we can consider today's amendment to be, will include several dental implants, thus creating a watchdog, not only academic freedoms and university rights, but also their social responsibility. Thank you for your attention to those who listened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u18	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mrs Putnová, I have an application for a factual remark from Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u19	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would just like to state for the record that I voted no in the 145 vote, and I have a yes in the high school. Only for repair for the screen recording. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u20	Yes, thank you, it will be recorded. And, Mrs Putnová, Mrs Semelová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u21	Good afternoon. Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, we are getting on the table a amendment to the higher law that we have been waiting for for a really long time. At least since 2004, since Mrs. Petra Buzková was Minister of Education, it has been said that our higher education system needs fundamental reform. No wonder our current standard is from 1998. Since then, a whole generation has grown up, and the children who were born then will actually report to college. Colleges have fundamentally changed, teaching methods and technologies have changed, students have changed. We therefore expect that the amendment to the Higher Education Act will correspond to the changed conditions and will bring new possibilities, new regulation and also new visions for decades to come. I would like to appreciate that the Minister has submitted an amendment to the Higher Education Act within the deadline, in accordance with the legislative plan. It is also necessary to appreciate that the processing site, the legislative processing, is at a good level. The Ministry did not start empty-handed, and when it came to this amendment, it had unfinished amendments from the last parliamentary term ahead of it, and it also had on the table analyses, which it itself commissioned through individual national projects. In the last five years alone, investment in these analyses, methodologies, descriptiors, would cost about 250 million. If we took the entire period of the last decade, it would be more than 500 million. More than half a billion went into the analysis of the higher education environment with a number of recommendations. So how did Minister Chládek deal with these tasks, and what does he present today for assessment? When I was thinking about how I was going to divide the individual tasks, I thought it would be appropriate to take this into consideration by the interested groups affected by the amendment. I'm gonna start with the students because the students are the ones that made the novel and the colleges that make it happen. I appreciate that the Ministry, Minister Chládek, accepted the current form of technology development and it is possible to deliver today a notification of admission to study in electronic form as well as other recommendations. Indeed, this corresponds to today's common communication possibilities. My next performance will be more critical. Consider what the amendment brings from the point of view of the study program. It divides it within the Bachelor's and Master's degree programme into academic and professional. The profiles of these studies are formulated very vaguely, not clear throughput and not a clear form of funding. The spicy point is that schools, which assume that they could primarily prepare students for the professional type of study, are convinced that it will damage them as well as the second group. The first people believe that higher education will benefit from training in the academic study programme, because there is expected to be more direct teaching, more qualified workers will be needed, and the logic of the matter therefore shows that it will be more demanding to prepare for the profession. Those who would be considered for training practically oriented students expect that, on the contrary, they should be the ones who will benefit. What is it, Mr. Secretary? [[14.50 hours]] Lifelong education, another area that is included in the amendment to higher education law, but is sold eleven lines. When this draft was effective in 1998, lifelong learning was in diapers. Lifelong learning is a course participant's education. It's college income. I would have expected that in the new century, when it became a phenomenon, there would be some regulation that would limit what percentage or degree of students would be educated in presentation and combination forms and what in lifelong forms. Are we to understand that this is going to be a free competition between universities, and they're actually going to go to the paid form of education? I'm not even happy with the fact that the fee for further college studies is being abolished. This is proof that I do not write from Professor Rais, because I believe that universities are also intended to contribute to social cohesion. And if we want to encourage students to study more disciplines - that is, of course, the length of the above-standard study period - and they didn't pay for it, then we just support those students who can afford it, we support social inequality. This is something that goes completely against the spirit of social cohesion. I think that they should also focus on the members of the Security Committee, because the central management of admission candidates for study is deepening for state universities, which are police and military. This means, in practice, that it is likely to be possible to move these candidates between private schools, and the question is whether this is an intention or a misunderstanding. In any case, I would recommend that the Security Committee examine this chapter in detail. I'm getting into social scholarships that we've been talking about. Social scholarships are increasing and they are actually following the parliamentary proposal, which came from the workshop of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, but it does not solve the substance of itself. Students in the Czech Republic are children dependent on parents under 26 years of age. To change this situation, we need a law on financial support for students through scholarships, grants, loans. I know it's very complicated. I know you would run into a number of obstacles, Minister, but that is a way to help our students become more responsible, more adults. This is a law that would transform Czech society. The last of the points that affect students and which I would like to talk about is the withdrawal of diplomas or the response to unfair practices. Of course, with the development and massification of higher education, fraudulent negotiations have also multiplied. The current situation makes it possible to respond to this in administrative proceedings. It would now be dealt with under this amendment by a higher education law, which I take as a preventive form, as psychological pressure on students, graduates, it concerns up to the professors, habilitation. However, I'm afraid we're running into a lot of confusion here, too. For example, the scope of the facts of the action to be taken. I'm getting into college management. If in your previous speech, Minister, you spoke of following up on the work of your predecessors, I must say that you remained very modest in the area of higher education management and did not take from it the material you were prepared what could change the quality of higher education management. So you're not making any major changes. You leave the composition of the senate, so the idea of professoric curie is no longer up to date. On the contrary, the role of deans and sectors towards the Senate is weakening. I believe that universities expected much more in this regard. I am getting funding, which in the previous version, which did not pass Parliament, or the 2013 amendment, is completely negative. You did not learn at this stage what the 2013 amendment wanted to bring, i.e. contract funding for a period of three years. The funding of universities remains unchanged. I don't think that's the way to stand on the ground anymore, we're actually backing off. The funding of universities, as we see it, is actually a unilateral decision by the Ministry of Education, and it is a form that is very rigid because it does not allow strategic planning for universities. The greatest triumph of this amendment was to be the accreditation and accreditation body. The problem is that accreditation, as it was presented in this amendment, cannot be assessed competently because the standards on which accreditation will be granted are not known. You, Minister, are showing us a movie where there are many white places, and you promise to show us pictures at second reading, and you hope we will like them. We'd like to see those pictures now. As far as the accreditation body is concerned, the 2013 draft that you claim to be following it assumed that the accreditation body would be an entity and an organisational component of the State, which would ensure the independence necessary for us to remain members of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education, so-called. ENQA. But what happened in the novel you submitted? The Accreditation Authority is, in your view, a subordinate to the Ministry of Education. It's just the extended hand of the Minister of Education. The number of members of the accreditation committee has decreased, which means that today it will be just an organizational unit of the Ministry of Education and that there will be greater pressure on its members. The accreditation standards are to be approved by the Government without the accreditation body being able to comment. So there will be no feedback. The amendment to the Higher Education Act does not unite the formation of universities. As we know, private universities are created by granting the State's consent to the Ministry of Education, while public universities are determined by the government. This dichotomy was not significant in 1998. Until 2000, there was no private college. This development occurred only between 2000 and 2004, when 34 private universities were established. If we want both public and private universities to enjoy the same respect, or to have the same conditions, it is also necessary for them to unite. Despite everything I have said, I do not consider these comments to be absolutely fundamental and incompatible with the possibility of continuing the negotiations and discussions of this amendment. What I consider to be the most important threat to the future of universities is to delay the solution. [[15.00 hours]] You, Minister, have introduced us to an amendment that formally meets the task but does not meet the objective for which the amendment should arise, namely to strengthen the quality of universities. Since 1998, the number of higher education students has doubled, the number of researchers has doubled, but according to the global competitiveness index, we have fallen by ten places between 2007 and 2013. So if we want to keep up with the world, we need high-quality education. If we delay major steps today, those complicated tasks that await higher education will be wasted for another five years. Count me in. In 2013, there were elections, in 2015, you submitted an amendment. The effectiveness would be next year. If we accept this amendment, by the end of the term, you will be fulfilled, your table will be filled, because the university law, as you have proposed, will be fulfilled. There should be other elections in 2017. If the Minister is diligent, and I mean without any irony, in 2019 he can come up with a real amendment to the Higher Education Act, or a new higher education law, and efficiency from 2020 at best, so we will waste another five years. So what we are going to vote on today is not really the draft itself, but we are voting on whether we want to tackle the demands, the new challenges, the challenges of higher education now, or whether we want to postpone it and allow erosion in higher education to continue. That's what's going on here. You often cover yourself with a positive Czech conference of rectors or the Council of universities. I fully respect and understand the views of the Czech Rectors' Conference. They defend and defend the opinions of their institutions and do so well. They are not responsible for higher education. The Ministry is responsible for higher education and Parliament is also responsible for the vote. So let us not hide behind opinions that may be supportive, but they are not opinions that should be decisive. I think I've touched on the essentials that need to be talked about and that deserve our attention. I'm not going to mention the appointment of professors as a hot topic right now, because I think it's better if the lava cools down a little bit after the explosion. However, I would like to say that the shortcomings of this draft, the lack of standards and a number of unclear places in this amendment lead me to make a motion to return this amendment to the petitioner for revision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u22	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mrs Semelová, I'll read the apologies. Minister Pelikán apologizes for working reasons for the afternoon meeting and Mr Procházka apologises for the rest of today's day for health reasons. And yet here is Mr Klaška's apology from 14.30 to 15.30 for work reasons. So many apologies. The floor is with Mrs Semelová. Mr. Mr. Zlatuška will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the Higher Law has long been discussed and its preparation has not been easy. The changes were already being made by former ministers of education, but without success. The current version is the result of long negotiations, it has support - and it has been said here - the Czech Conference of Rectors and the Council of Higher Education. It is based on the needs of society and the labour market, the situation in which universities are located and the need to strengthen the quality of higher education. It is the quality of education, and I note that not only university, is what we should all care about. In recent years we have repeatedly witnessed many affairs that have just mentioned quality, virtually. the quality of the education provided was affected. There were problems at some universities with a length of study, when some speedy students obtained the diploma in an excessively short period of time without proper processing of the final work, or their plagiarism proved to be. Of course, there were more mistakes. Some private schools, in turn, are disproportionately recruiting a large number of students from whom they collect tuition fees without being able to secure their quality teaching and dignified conditions. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to address these shortcomings, which should contribute to changes in the proposed amendment, whether it be a quality evaluation system for schools, new rules for accreditation of higher education programmes and institutional accreditation, to the possibility of withdrawing illegally obtained degrees or increasing social scholarships. Of course, we can talk about whether the proposed changes are sufficient, or whether some adjustments should not yet be made. I have a problem with some of the provisions myself. After all, it was discussed enough during round tables. For example, the account of the possible withdrawal of illegally obtained titles ignores the title of professor. Unsolved is what will be done with the title of associate professor if the title of master is taken away from the person, which is a condition for obtaining other titles. Questions are also raised by the newly established title of extraordinary professor. While there is some regulation in the amendment in the provision that only the university which has been granted institutional accreditation can establish a post of extraordinary professor, I am concerned that, in particular, private schools for various reasons, such as the needs of the guarantors of the field, do not abuse the possibility of granting an extraordinary professorship. I will also propose minor adjustments in the next discussion in the areas of education, namely transport. With regard to the quality of education discussed so much, I consider a large number of universities and the pursuit of higher education degrees to be one of the factors contributing to reducing the quality of education. In the Czech Republic there has been a sharp increase in their number over the last fifteen years, especially in private, while many of them have problems with staff security. The fact that there were 8 private universities in our territory in 2000 and today 44 of them, 26 public and 2 state, is disproportionate in view of the size of our state and the population. Moreover, many private universities accept virtually everyone without any prerequisites, often without entrance exams. So we got into a situation that everyone has a diploma, but it is not supported by the quality of education. I consider it reasonable that the law specifies the conditions under which the Ministry of Education may take the private school's state consent necessary for its activities in the field. The problem is also the composition of disciplines and uneven interest in them. Here, too, there is a clear difference between public and private universities. It can be recorded in the most common groups of study programmes. While in public with more than 80,000 students lead technical sciences and teachings, privates have a great advantage in economic fields. In 2013, over 21,000 students of these institutions were dedicated to them. [[15.10 hours]] In public universities, economic sciences and teachings are second, and third are humanities and social sciences. We also monitor the low interest of applicants in technical fields in the long term. Data from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports show that e.g. in the field of technical science, production and construction, only 15 percent of higher education degrees are studied, which is nine percentage points less than in 2001. The interest in technical staff is considerable. On the other hand, many graduates of the humanities are not in their field of application and perform the work of high school students, and sometimes they are even in a position of employment for which the qualifications of apprentices are sufficient. It is simply true that schools are too much, education does not meet the requirements of the economy and the level of education varies considerably from one school to another. As regards the proposal to increase the social scholarship from CZK 1,220 to CZK 2,100, I appreciate that our earlier proposal was taken over by the Ministry of Education and incorporated into the submitted amendment. In this context, however, I draw attention to the fact that we have submitted a new proposal under the KSČM, in which there is an increase of social scholarship to CZK 2,400, and at the same time extends the range of beneficiaries. We will be happy to agree on this proposal for an increase in the next debate and to incorporate it directly into the government amendment. It is easy to criticize the increase when the critic himself graduated for free. Today, many students are forced by economic circumstances to make extra money. Otherwise, they would have to discontinue their studies. According to last year's survey, Eurostudent Among more than 6,000 Bachelor's, Master's, and follow-up study programmes, there are costs associated with the study of a burning problem. Monthly costs go up to 10,000 somewhere. Although one third of the students enjoy financial support from their parents, the income from a job or a part-time job is almost necessary for them today. However, they engage in economic activities to an extent that is harmful to their study, i.e. not only on holidays and on days of work rest, but also on working days and at the expense of schooling. So every extra crown in the social scholarship is definitely good. Finally, I would like to point out that the proposal improves the situation, while I do not claim that certain adjustments and changes that can be further discussed in the second reading are not possible. That is why we support his further discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u24	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. Mr Zlatuška has the floor and Mr Grebeníček, who is the last member of the general debate, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the passwords we have heard in a positive sense about this amendment to the Higher Education Act are not justified that the law does not bring about the promised changes. It is certainly not a reform itself. It is a proposal based on the remnants, a kind of torso that remains in the ministry from the time of previous governments, especially the governments of Topolánkův and Petr Nečas, which, at the time of preparation, was based on some kind of a really significant change in the nature of higher education in the Czech Republic. The outlooks on which the governments were building at the time were summarised in the so-called The White Paper, which followed the recommendations we received from the OECD, is the report that my colleague Rais mentioned in his speech. The White Paper never became the government's approved material. The government only took note of it, at a time when Minister of Education was then Minister Liška, but the own approval of this draft never took place and there was no correct discussion. It turned out that the primary objectives that were hiding behind the outlook were quite easily viewed by the public and the academic public as a way to privatise the rest of the public sector remaining in the Czech Republic and to increase political-economic influence in universities, which was not essential to the standards that universities have in developed countries. The most elaborate part of the outlook then concerned the introduction of tuition fees. In the programme statement, the Nečasův government also had the introduction of financial assistance to higher education students. A number of critics pointed out an interesting typo in the then programming statement that it was not financial aid to students, but students, and indeed in this way, although this characterization is more of a kind of smiling story, this is how the work was characterized. The most significant work was the introduction of tuition fees and a system of tuition fees, where it turned out that this was in terms of economic parameters of the distribution of income and structure of finances in individual groups of both the population and graduates, an inconvenient idea, and that if such an idea were introduced, it would only lead to large overhead costs that would be on the sides of financial institutions, banks or those who would provide loans for study, but would not really help students or higher education in the Czech Republic. That was also why, under previous governments, he had to justifiably back out of this. Today we hear that Minister Chládek has succeeded in completing the efforts that have been unsuccessful in previous ministers. But here it is good to point out once again that it is not based on the idea of how to improve the higher education system overall and how to make a systemic change, especially not the change that could be called reform, but that the remnants of previous preparations have been taken and in some way paid off together so that some players from higher education environments, especially the Czech Conference of Rectors and the Council of Higher Education, are not too irritated. In this sense, I fully agree with what Mrs Putnová said here that, if the proposal should be adopted in this form, this means, above all, wasting a chance. Wasted the chance to do something about the university environment in terms of moving it forward, cutting off some kind of achieved goal that may have been taken by the Minister, but which certainly did not take on this coalition government. [[15.20 hours]] I would remind you that in the coalition statement of the Government it is explicitly written: the Government will analyse the higher education legislation and, consequently, submit a proposal for amendments. An analysis of higher education legislation to actually say what needs to be changed in a higher education environment and set out some kind of idea of a direction of what is to be changed, the intention was not implemented. And the rest is actually a conglomerate of things that in part didn't offend anyone too much...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u26	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm asking all colleagues to keep their voices down and not discuss this during your speech. Thank you... I really ask all colleagues not to discuss this, including ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u27	I, too, consider the Minister a colleague. So the conglomerate of change is that there are things that don't offend anyone very much, there are a few things that a limited number of players are hoping for a positive outcome. In particular, there are institutional accreditations, where better-situated schools hope that in this way they could actually separate themselves from the current system and introduce a method of internal accreditation, which will largely be independent of the rest of the environment when they manage to obtain institutional accreditation. If you have observed any comments from private universities, there were also hopes of changing accreditation from this sector of higher education. could pass away problems with quality or with criticism of the quality of some universities, which are now being considered to withdraw accreditation or withdrawal of state approval, and here this change provides them with a form of hope for the future. In some cases, this is even linked to the fact that the officials of such schools worked directly in the Ministry of Administrative Projects, which prepared the content of the system of qualifications of higher education, or in projects where the Ministry spends money in a particular way among universities within the framework of the regional project. The original idea was even that there would be tens of thousands of people in universities who would be reported as preparing university strategies. The aim was only for the Ministry of Education to create a greater number of committed actors in the university environment through the distribution of finance. Here, I would recommend not to ignore this aspect of the distribution of finances in any argument that points to the compliance of the Ministry of Education with certain parts of the representation of universities where these are provisions that are in a way empty. It is symptomatic that sometimes the support of this amendment connects with the fact that at the same time we hear that universities hope that the Ministry of Education will provide more money especially for public universities. At the same time, this appears with the use of highly undervalued data in the media on the funding of universities, often in connection with the fact that it refers only to the amount of the contribution to the educational activities of public universities, while internationally, at the time of the talk of funding for universities, this means institutional funding, at the time of the talk of funding for universities from public budgets, that really means all public budgets. According to the latest available data from universities, this rate is 1.11 percent of GDP, this is the 2013 number, the newer data are not available because public universities have not yet given up their management reports. But when you compare it with the pressure that comes from the amounts that are at half the level, and the interaction of the Ministry, with the fact that it also promises to raise these things here and never agree to contradict these figures, it is appropriate to put them together with the support that is then discussed. As regards the specific parts considered in the amendment, I see as a positive point the clarification of certain administrative processes, which, at the time they were set up by the existing law, were not clarified to the extent that there would be a clear interplay between what is laid down explicitly in the Higher Education Act and how administrative justice, in particular the Supreme Administrative Court, will look at those areas where decision-making in higher education has the nature of decision-making on the rights of students and the related consequences for the application of the Administrative Rules. At the time when the existing law was adopted, this area was far from being developed by the relevant judicatures, there was virtually no practice of electronic communication, particularly between schools and students. In this part of the shift at technical level is included in the amendment, I would regard it as clearly positive, but I would in no way put it in the category of any reforms or any influence on higher education. It is a technical matter that is needed, but it does not pursue any grandiose goal and certainly not a goal that must somehow be too proud. Other, more important issues are also needed in the higher education sector. One of the areas covered by the amendment is academic workers. There was a statement that the category of extraordinary professor was being newly introduced. We have even heard from the former Minister and Chairman of the ODS Fiala that this is a category that our system does not yet know, and both the Minister and the former Minister have spoken about how this positive step forward is here. [[15.30 hours]] I dare to argue with this view and claim that, in the field of academic workers, this adjustment, on the contrary, means a small step backwards from the current situation. That step back is given by the fact that the amendment taxatically requires that the professors' posts be occupied only by those who go through habilitation or naming. In other words, those who get the Czech titles - and they are titles in quotation marks, because really no law introduces them, no law forbids anyone who thinks to write before the docent's name. There is no law that prevents you from doing this here, and in terms of the provisions in the Charter of Rights, once you have no law that gives you an obligation, you don't have to respect it. So even those who haven't gone through the habilitation. If you write down your docent. before the name, you will not find a provision in the Czech legal order that this would forbid you. Same with prof. This law contains a new provision which provides that jobs can only be occupied by those who have undergone appointment or habilitation proceedings. A slightly better wording was made between 1997 and 1998 by the proposal that was at the time preparing social democracy for a new law on universities, where the status of professor and professor in universities and what was called rank in the amendment was distinguished. The name of the post was divided from what is obtained on the basis of the appointment of a lecturer or professor from the Rector of a university or president of the Republic, and explicitly introduced both abbreviations and legal provisions which defined the situation, which was quite common in the past with appointed professors or professors who could have been appointed to the relevant post or did not have to, in the law. This did not come into the existing law adopted with effect from 1998. Social democracy withdrew the proposal at the time, and it was never continued here. The current proposal introduces a link between the post and the title obtained. It is a restriction that has not yet been made. This restriction seems to be a step that can prevent some injustice, some manipulation with those places. But this is the truth most at the moment when we look only at domestic domestic environments. At the moment we realize that the habilitation and appointment procedures of a professor, as envisaged by our law, are not accessible to academic staff of foreign universities, especially universities, which are of high quality - let's say a hypothetical example of a professor coming here from Oxford or Harvard - so in such cases once we tie the pseudotitle to a job, we make restrictions for the internationalisation of our universities. This amendment solves the problem with the categories of extraordinary professor, which is a category that does not relate to the award of any certificate, title or pseudotitle in the sense of the lecturer and professor as it is with our professors, but it binds to the work of the relevant worker in the given post. In other words, it does not establish a new category of recognised title, but establishes a specific name for a job that can be established in universities with this definition. At first glance, it seems like a clever mountaineer who is circumventing the problem of a certain incompetence of the Central European system of scientific and pedagogical degrees and what is customary in the Anglo-Saxon world. But only at first sight. Complications will occur at the moment when universities should issue selection procedures to fill such places. The moment he writes the school's proceedings, where he asks for the professor's seat, he will, of course, be our professor, who has received a signed decree at Prague Castle sometime in the past and in Karolin or by post sent the decree of appointment by professor. It's not gonna be that foreign professor from Oxford or Harvard. If the school wants to take someone from abroad, it's gonna have to ask for a job that's called an extraordinary professor, which is a different position than that intended for our professors. And for a change, hypothetically, at the moment when a domestic candidate is found, which happens to be better than the foreign ones who will report to it, the procedure will only apply here to this newly created job. I can imagine that in the domestic environment, there is no problem with the school - I don't know if fucking is a useful term, but they just go around the way Czech institutions are used to. But this is going to come back to the standards that we should apply with regard to the foreign environment. There is a joint declaration by the European Commission and the European University Association on the creation of a European university space, where the aim is to publish all selection procedures to fill the posts of scientific staff, which are, of course, those professors and professors, international procedures that are published on one EURAXESS server of the European Commission. What will be asked in such an announcement of a job? Our professor, or the special professor? How will this be combined? And how are we going to operate abroad so that we do not feel that what we are actually writing, what we tend to consider as defined specifications, which these institutions also observe, so how do we behave within our institutions to actually move and treat these categories in virtually any way? This is a minor illustration of what remained in the proposal after all the possible changes and remained there because the original idea at the time of the reform ensured the possibilities of excellent practitioners working in places that correspond to professors in universities did not notice the possibility for universities to apply this within the framework of the law today, and tried to find a way to promote some kind of osmosis between the academic environment and the environment of industrial practical corporate applications. The clearly positive issue, on the other hand, with the gradual steps that were being taken to prepare the partial amendments, and what was left today at the Ministry of Education, led to the fact that it addresses practically only a special case of incompatibilities of our titles with foreign action, and in a way that is not acceptable in any way, it is not without problems. [[15.40 hours]] I say that this regulation does not move our universities for the better, it reduces the possibilities for them to behave in their personnel work, despite what some colleagues say, who claim to be and have always been advocates of professors' or professors' positions, even though they have not used these places, these opportunities at a time and in places where they could use it. Another problem that I see in the amendment in relation to basic topics that are very visible, these are accreditation problems. The idea of simplifying accreditation for established institutions leads to the idea of institutional accreditation. Once the school is sufficiently renowned, it will be entitled to carry out a process of some kind of certification of study programmes, which it carries out in its own direction, it will not have to turn to another institution with each individuality. However, in the accreditation process, as described in the amendment, I see considerable problems. One of these problems is what Mrs Putnová mentioned here, namely a non-finished picture of what the various provisions mean. The importance of the individual provisions in the law is given by sub-legal standards and it does not matter, in principle, whether it is the decree of the Ministry of Education or the Government, but without making it clear what the content of these standards looks like, it is not possible to see the consequences of what is set in the amendment as such and what may seem quite reasonable at first sight. The Devil may be hidden in detail, and the problems of sublegal standards are absolutely essential. The fact that the Ministry of Education refused to prepare the standards so as to be available at the same time as the amendment was submitted to the government did not refer to the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies as a very serious mistake. We asked for this here. We've got an expressive rejection. We have an explicit reference to the fact that we are only to be satisfied with the substantive intentions of these sub-laws, not with their specific wording. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Accreditation, as presented in the amendment, does not raise too much concern with some of the academic community representatives because they say: The whole institutional accreditation mechanism, if it fails to use it, will in principle remain the process that has been going on now. Individual study programmes will be accredited and will not only be used by the entire mechanism that is being prepared there. The mechanism, I stress, has not been tested in any way in terms of how its implementation in universities will look, what the relevant standards will look like, which presume quality control and internal standards for universities. We have recently brought this to the attention of a representative of the Ministry. We have learned that piloting such processes here is not possible. But when you look at what new institutions and what processes the norm introduces, it's very important to see what these things are going to look like here. [[The noise in the room is getting stronger. ANO Members gather in front of their benches.]] The big question is, is this the kind of new accreditation...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u28	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and not to discuss and allow the Member to complete his comprehensive speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u29	The question is whether such a new accreditation will actually reduce internal bureaucracy and administrative burdens in universities, or only lead to many formal stylistic exercises on the standards required by this process, but they are not essential in terms of the credibility of what is taking place in universities. Transparency is a much more important element that is lacking in today's accreditations. The transparency of how individual proposals are assessed, how they are treated by sub-Commissions, accreditation committees, and how they are prevented from applying their own interests in the accreditation process, representing the interests of their institutions or their own interests, not the interests of education as such. Another issue with accreditation is the whole concept of the areas of education to be set aside and defined by a government regulation. This is actually about the government's regulation to establish the structure of the sciences in which education takes place in universities. It stops being a matter of the academic scientific community. This is becoming a matter of political decision and of binding respect for what the political body, the government, is written into it. Preparation, as is happening today at the level of the relevant working groups, looks like a process that is rarely democratic. It's attended by a lot of college workers, not the Ministry of Education by internal workers. On the other hand, when we look at the details, we find that the process is in no way this favorable and that, on the contrary, it may contain a step backwards in the form of petrification and rigidity of the system. Without any transparent choice, the working committees that are currently working on the content of the relevant areas of study have been delegated to staff of existing universities, who have not been given an accurate specification of the extent to which the results of their activities will be a binding standard only by the recommendations for which they will actually be used, but have, in general, been able to ensure that their particular interests or the particular interests of their institutions are included in the standards or standards to be prepared. If someone teaches the course XY at the relevant university, in other words, they will try to make sure that the requirements of what he is dedicated are included in those future standards. [[15.50 hours]] As soon as we let this pass through a mechanism that will be enshrined in the standard that will be imposed by the government's regulation, any innovation that will take place in the future in universities will naturally bump into the fact that when someone tries to innovate, they will learn: Well, the government's regulation says that study programmes should look different. This concerns, in a significant way, a requirement, as we imagine, to be educated by teachers in the teaching sector, but these are not only examples, but also examples of disciplines that develop in a natural way and some paradigms of work change there. [[There is a constant noise in the hall, a spectacular lack of interest in the speaker's speech.]] The proposal, as it is designed today by its opaqueness and political decision making, is the opposite of what it should look like. The primary consensus should be at expert level at the highest level of any professional society and with the significant input of the interested public where it has a relation to further action towards society as such. The current proposal is the opposite of this, rather it brings rigidity. In study programmes, it is not considered with strong support for what the practical sphere is calling for. Models of study that are common in the UK in the form of so-called. sandwich studies, where it is institutionally possible to translate studies with practical action in industrial practice. Tying up fees for a longer period of study and tightening these parameters can lead to a...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u30	My colleague, I am doing my best without using a microphone to reduce the sound level in the House, but I am not doing so well. So once again I ask my colleagues to keep their voice down and pay attention to Mr Zlatuška's argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u31	'Cause I'd have to scream otherwise, wouldn't I? [[He's waiting for silence.]] This works in class.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u32	I really ask for peace in the House. Please note that the following item is the register of contracts. He's very closely monitored by the media, and I'd hate for us to be accused of obstruction again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u33	There is no systemically designed sandwich study as a connection of study with practice, which is very important especially in those areas of study where we are dealing with a larger dimension of professional study. The equivalent of something called industrial PhD, a model known for example from Denmark, is missing on those advanced floors abroad, and the parameters of interdisciplinary study programmes are completely lost for accreditation. In general, interdisciplinarity is considered an essential part of higher education in an environment of higher education abroad. The whole system here assumes that these are actually isolated requirements of individual groups that can stand next to each other. From there, too, the debate on the relevant fees and the adjustment of the fact that the interdisciplinary study must be bypassed by more studies. Another thing I see as very problematic is that, without more expert debate on the benefits and possible problems of the Bologna model, greater tolerance for transferring the divided study to a long Master's degree is introduced into the accreditation clause. Whether this is true or not, we'll only see that when we draw up the relevant sub-laws. However, the current diction in the novel suggests these fears, and I am not alone in thinking this. From other areas in relation to accreditation, the problem of conflict of interests of staff of the accreditation agency is unsolved because it is like a model from larger countries that can afford to separate staff for such bodies that do not have connections to existing universities, and there is no danger that workers are preparing their work for institutions to which they will then leave. I consider the transition between schools and an accreditation agency to be a very significant problem, and I also consider it a problem that there is not solved isolation between professional activities in an accreditation agency and political positions or positions in a state administration in the form of crossing. I believe that there should be a requirement, say, a five-year quarantine from being in a political party or in a state administration for people who will work in an accreditation agency. In turn, the considerations that go against the independence of accreditation are considered as looking out places for people from the authorities or from the political parties. An important point is the transparency of negotiations on the problems that the accreditation agency is dealing with. From another point of view, which I consider to be very problematic, the autonomy of faculties is. This has already been mentioned by my colleague, Rais, in strengthening the powers of the Rectors. As this thing is prepared in the novel today, it is a change that can have a one-way character. If a more despotic rector decides to use these things here and not hand over powers to faculties, this will provide for a change in the internal structure of universities, which will be irreversible in terms of practically viable processes. The plurality of activity within universities is very important in order for universities to be able to develop as viable institutions. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] On this point, it is symptomatic how it got into the novel at all. When you read the explanatory memorandum, the explanatory memorandum with this change in the internal structure of universities does not operate at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u34	Colleagues, colleagues, I really don't know what to do anymore. Of course I can interrupt the meeting... I can't do that, Mr. Ambassador. [[Mr Koskuba is probably suggesting that Mr Zlatiška be interrupted.]] Your solution you're proposing is impossible. Either I can interrupt the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations to allow you to keep your voice down, or I can still appeal to a dignified atmosphere in the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, I can appeal a little to my colleague Zlatuška if he would like to shorten his speech, but I can't limit it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u35	For this autonomy, it is very important to realise that what universities do is internal plurality of opinion. Once we scramble it more into the power of one person, the Rector on top of the whole institution, we're losing the environment to internal innovative power. And it's a step that can damage higher education. This does not mean not giving the rectors the opportunity to proceed against the ill-considered, perhaps economic actions of the autonomous faculties, but what is now included in the amendment has significant risks of opposing the approach and of overcoming the situation to the other side. What is further problematic is the failure to deal with the relationship between private and public higher education. The majority of the criticisms expressed by the public in relation to universities concern private schools. Yet the systematic solution to their relationship in the novel is missing. There is a lack of ensuring the elimination of conflicts of interest among public university workers who can freely tunnel the know-how of public universities and carry them away as external workers who lecture at private universities and allow them to function. The amendment to private universities is very tolerant of the fact that it is starting to allow the merger of private universities with the transfer of accreditation, which is clearly a step for saving private entities, has no reasonable incentive for quality, nothing more, it is just a pillow that is being given here to this sector. I would consider it desirable that, in the exception in the Code of Education and Scientific Education, at least with the tribal institutions where academic workers work, the obligation to give prior consent to the external action of those workers in other institutions should be ensured, otherwise we are in a situation of tunneling public institutions for the benefit of others or for the benefit of private ones. Another issue that is not addressed by the amendment is the question of the representativeness of the academic chambers, which is the matter of the respective elections, and more importantly, how the representativeness of the academic chambers is reflected in the election of the higher education institutions, namely the rector and dean. Here I would see as an effective debate on what the choice as such should look like in relation to the election of the academic chambers, or perhaps on the electoral councils for the election of the rector, which could be an alternative to what Mrs Putnová mentioned here, such as the professorial kurie in the higher education chambers. Next thing you know, I'm gonna try to skip it. The big problem is the amendment contained in the amendment to the Act on Public Research Institutions, which allows for the strengthening of the power of the founder, which does not place any funds in public research institutions in a number of cases, and in fact the transfer of public research institutions to a position of former contribution organisations, except that there is actually lack of appropriate funding. This issue in public research institutions has no factual connection with universities as amended and there is no reason for Law No. 341/2005 Coll., on Public Research Institutions, amendment. It's a clean sticker that has nothing to do with the novel, and it's not clear from the explanatory report what's actually following this problematic change. I believe that, as the amendment is presented, it is presented in an unfinished form, without the necessary debate. I regret to say that the promise of Prime Minister Sobotka, who gave me in response to my oral intervention on 12 March of this year, has not been fulfilled. He said to me at the time: "I promised to attend the Czech Rectors' plenary so that I would be able to speak not only to the Bureau, but to all the presidents of our universities. " I note that such participation by the Prime Minister in the meeting of the Czech Rectors' Board did not take place, this promise is not fulfilled. And this just shows that the proposal is being put forward in an unnecessary hurry, that even here, I would say, the ceremonial formalities are not fulfilled. There is no valid reason for this rush, because from the perspective of the deadline amendment, from the point of view of action, both here in the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently in the Senate, it cannot come into effect. This puts a task before the committee, which is pointless in terms of possibilities that when we compare the options of Members with the Ministry's option - the Ministry gives a poorly prepared non-finished standard, on which we will have to work very hard in the second reading committee. I think she deserves to be rewritten in principle. At the same time, the Ministry of Education should have all the professional apparatus for this, or at least until recently. I am aware that, in fact, all the work that has been done in the Ministry has been carried out, so that it has been carried out by Mr Mlsna, who is no longer a member of the Ministry. So the question is whether the unfinished form of the amendment, which is to be dealt with by Members of the Committee, is not some kind of transfer of work from the Ministry to the Chamber of Deputies. In any case, I very much regret this process here. All we have to do is work on this in a thorough way on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u36	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's keep going. Before I give the floor to the President of the TOP 09, allow me first to state my apologies to the Minister of Defence, Martin Stropnický, from 5 pm to the end of the day, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, from 15.30 pm to the rest of the day. Mr Klaška apologized until 1545 hours for working reasons, Mr Jakubčík from 16.30 to 19.00 for work reasons and Mr Jiří Štětina from 18.00 for working reasons today. Now, therefore, Mr Miroslav Kalousek's factual comment as Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. A colleague of Grebeníček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u37	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that at this point, the TOP 09 Members have withdrawn a total of five critical acts to draft this bill, because the content of our critical speeches has been substantially extended by Professor Zlatuška from the government coalition. We want to sign up for what he said. We strongly hope that if common sense prevails and wins the views presented here by Professor Zlatuška, nothing like this can be approved. However, we fear that this will not happen, that in the end the government coalition in the spirit of what it has demonstrated here in the morning, in the spirit of a common lie and corruption, proclaims what is being presented. If the professor doesn't like it, he'll be recalled at the piano or drowned at the trombone. [[entertainment]] However, once again, I would like to stress that we are signing up for the views expressed by the chairman of the school committee here, which is why we will not repeat them here with our own mouths. And we have no exaggerated notion that the truth will prevail, even if it sounds from your own ranks. I know you can't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u38	Thank you for keeping time with my colleague Kalousek. And now the last in writing entered into the debate, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to me, too, that the government's proposal for an amendment to the Higher Education Act responds to the complex and often problematic situation that has been put into our higher education. At the same time, it also responds to some of the obvious needs of universities. To some extent the difficult situation is not so new, some adverse trends were established years ago, and some development trends and the risks associated with them indicated the need for legislative changes and new adjustments more and more urgently. However, many discussions on the need to respond more comprehensively to the difficulties and new circumstances were very, very contradictory and, despite all the promises, did not lead to an agreement on appropriate adjustments and the necessary conclusions and outcomes. After previous futile or incomplete preparations, therefore, the current government comes up with a more comprehensive proposal for a solution. It is necessary to recall what it wants or should respond to, the material submitted, knowing that some of the modifications contained in it cannot be described as really effective in advance and with certainty. This can only be demonstrated in the application of the amendment, if it is approved and if it enters into force. I understand, in particular, the efforts of the government to make control mechanisms and certain procedures for organisation and management more effective. If the State as a whole, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has gradually renounced and relieved certain competences in the past, this has not been linked to the corresponding and, in particular, often not to the effective replacement of the responsibilities of universities themselves. After all, not only the professional public could be more convinced about failing control mechanisms in universities themselves, both public and private, and the need to strengthen school quality control and educational offer. The legendary case of Pilsen rights that fell and could not, of course, fall on the leadership of the entire University of West Bohemia, in fact, as an example failure, showed very clearly how far the academic community's bankruptcy and responsibility, the decline of quality and the neutrality of control elements of the system could take place at the public, state-funded university. Today, however, after years, we also know that this case has not become a sufficient warning for a number of other universities and that it has not followed sufficient effective measures to avoid repeating the state of incomprehensibility and late reactions to similar phenomena, as we are convinced again and again. If the Czech Republic is far more popular in the number of higher education institutions today and if the number of higher education students in population years exceeded all the conceivable limits, it did not go hand in hand in hand in size, but often with just maintaining the level of tertiary education. If, in some limited form, it appears in the design and the way to deal with frauds around false and strange studies, plagiarism and cheating in the pursuit of diplomas and titles, then it is a bit after a dirty foam over cloudy undercurrents. I therefore welcome the fact that the amendment declares efforts to improve and improve the quality assessment of universities. However, only practice in the case of proposed changes as regards accreditation of study programmes and institutional accreditation will convince me whether the measures are not only new but also effective. The establishment of the National Accreditation Office for Higher Education is intended to create a staff-strong institution. The point is to have appropriate competences and responsibilities. As the Ministry of Education gradually renounced responsibility for the work of the Accreditation Commission in a conflict situation, I want to believe that the emergence of a new office will lead to a clear situation that there will be no dilution and a commitment to its responsibility and functionality. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it desirable also to regulate the rules for foreign universities in the territory of the Czech Republic. I am convinced that the Czech State cannot renounce its responsibility not only for what universities and under what conditions they operate in our territory, given their scope in relation to Czech students and their qualifications. However, given the reputation of the Czech state, there should also be certain guarantees that foreign entities guarantee a certain level and that foreign students will not be harmed in the territory of the Republic for reasons of benevolence. Personally, I consider it necessary to emphasise, in addition to increasing the quality and social availability of higher education. I note that the Government has included in its proposal an adjustment - i.e. an increase - of social scholarships and has thus responded to a legitimate requirement which has previously been expressed by the Member's proposal. It is possible to discuss whether this is sufficient in all the obstacles that these students must overcome in an effort to obtain university qualifications. In any case, it is an old debt to students from socially weak families. These students have been waiting for an increase for reasons that cannot be justified since 2007, and the government is proposing, at least in my opinion, a reasonable step in this regard. Finally, I stress again: the submitted amendment responds in a way to a situation which is either not good in the long run or which, given the development of the system, its gaps, is desirable to change. I can and I doubt whether some of the proposed modifications will really be effective, whether some are sufficient and appropriate solutions to the problems. However, in any case, I consider the document presented to be a solid basis to be dealt with and even seriously. I shall therefore support its referral to the committee responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u40	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk. Mr Jiří Zlatuška, Mr Zlatuška, joined the debate with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u41	Mr President, I tried to skip a few points that I had prepared, and the social scholarships were one of them. And since it has been said here, I would point out that since the Ministry is already giving social scholarships, the increase, into the law that it would be appropriate for it to do so without being entitled to the funds from state resources. In fact, this means only a slight increase in funding towards private universities from the state budget. And what I said in the discussion of the Communist proposal: Public universities have three quarters of a billion in their scholarship funds lying there. There's something to pay for it. It is not a problem to pay social scholarships to give only as an obligation without entitlement to financial resources from the state budget. If this had been there, I would have considered it commendable to those students, and not merely as a libation by the Minister towards the Communist Members. I understand he needs these voices for purpose, but that's all I see here at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u42	I thank Mr Zlatušek for his time. That was the last one entered in the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. It's not like that. I'm done with the conversation. So I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Yes. Please, Mr. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek with final words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, thank you for the rich and tasty debate. Again, the area of education has become extremely important to all of you. I am very pleased that in a number of contributions, even from the left or right spectrum, there have been positive support voices, because the amendment should be supported by all the votes across the political spectrum. [[There's a disturbing noise in the room.]] As I mentioned in my opening speech, this is a key amendment, which is supported as a balanced amendment by a broad professional public, rectors of individual universities and Council of universities. I am also very pleased that the TOP 09 comments were summarised in one of the speeches of one of the Members, and that saved us time. Allow me, however, to touch one performance, which struck me a little bit, and this is Mrs Putnová's speech, which considers this amendment to be a little ambitious, that they expected more from it. It's possible, but I think they've had enough time to prepare a novel like this. They had enough time to prepare an ambitious novel and maybe they regret that the amendment is now in the Chamber of Deputies, which means as far away as it could be. There aren't any watermelons flying out of windows, there aren't thousands of students in the streets, and it's accepted with broad support. I can, however, please Mrs Putnová that we will certainly provide the pictures she is waiting for at second reading, where there should be a broad debate with the participation of the professional university representation, because it concerns them. However, I cannot agree with the honourable Member's statement that the rectors are not responsible for the development of higher education in the Czech Republic. I think that they are extremely co-responsible for development in the Czech Republic and that they are responsible for the development of universities and we cannot fit and degrade them into the role of lobbyist group. At the end of my speech, let me ask you from the left, so from the right, so you will be in the middle and behind me to support this novel and release it to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u44	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word. He's not interested in the final word. In that case, we will first look at the proposals that have been made in the debate. This is a proposal to return the proposal to the Government for completion. I'll check you all out first and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I ran the gong so everyone knows we're getting close to the vote. Once the number of applications has been settled, we will decide on this proposal by Mrs Putnová in voting order number 146. I have begun the vote on order 146, and I ask who is in favour of returning the petitioner for completion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 146. Of the present 157 for 32, versus 113. The motion was not accepted. So we will continue, by the commandments of the committee for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? Yes, Mrs Putnová. Guaranteed - that is, there is no other proposal for a guarantee committee. We will take the vote. We will decide in the 147 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 147. From the present 165 to 164, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose any other committee to discuss this. I see Mrs Putnová's application, and we will be dealing with other proposals immediately. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u45	In view of the fact that this amendment concerns state universities, I would recommend that at least the Defence Committee and the Security Committee address the passages that are aimed at these state universities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u46	Okay, thank you. So the Defence Committee, the Security Committee. Mr. Mr. Okleštěk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u47	Thank you. I am not going to propose committees, but in the previous vote, I voted against, and I have a say in high school. Well, just for the tape screen, I'm not questioning the vote, I'm questioning either one back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u48	I thank Mr Oklešťek. It shall be recorded in the minutes of the hearing and the outcome of the vote. We therefore have two proposals for a vote before us, which is to order as another committee to discuss the Defence Committee. We will decide in the vote 148 and ask who is in favour of the commandment to this committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 148. Of the present 165 for 82, versus 39. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the Security Committee. We are voting in the 149 that I have begun, and I am asking who is in favour of this being ordered by the Security Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 149. Of the present 165 for 59, versus 57. Nor has this proposal been adopted. I note that this press has been ordered as a guarantee committee by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. No other committee was ordered to do so. The time limit for the hearing shall be maintained in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point 32. Mr. Chairman of the Marek Černoch Club reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u49	Thank you for the floor. I would ask for a 30-minute break at the Dawn Club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u50	Okay, thank you. In that case, I'll put out a 31-minute break until 5:00 p.m., because at 5:00 p.m., there's a fixed point to be discussed, and in one minute I probably couldn't discuss anything else. I'm declaring a break within 5:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-20-ps2013-027-05-005-032.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue after the Dawn meeting, with the fact that we have a fixed item in front of us, and that is an item number.
