ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 406/2000 Coll., on Energy Management, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 301/ - second reading I will ask the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek, under the authority of the Government, to present the press. At the same time, I will ask Mr Michal Kučera to take the position of rapporteur as alternate rapporteur for Mr Urban. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 October 2014, you discussed at first reading the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Energy Management Act and ordered it to the Economic Committee which discussed the proposal. I have already introduced you to the substance of the proposed amendment at first reading, and therefore I would just like to remind you that there are several reasons to submit it. The most important is the implementation of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive 2012. The main benefit of the draft amendment should therefore be to improve energy efficiency, to clarify the rules for efficient energy management, and thus to meet the European target for 2020. We have received twenty amendments to be settled by the Economic Committee. The Economic Committee adopted amendments which are not directly contrary to European legislation and therefore I agree with them. I would like to remind you once again that the bill is closely monitored by the European Commission, too, because it is intended to remedy some of the uncertainties associated with the fulfilment of the preconditions for drawing funds into operational programmes. The break-up of the obligations contained in the draft law and the economic committee approved by the amendments is at the very edge of the proper implementation of the directives in question. Further simplifications might no longer be accepted by the European Commission, and even the still frozen infringement procedure of the TFEU could very quickly manifest itself in the restriction or even halting the use of European funds in the area of energy savings, where we still have a lot of work to do in meeting the set target. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also repeat that I agree with the economic committee's amendments, and I believe that you will take them into account in the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the service to correct paragraph 7, this is House press 301, not House press 302. (Point 7 on the board - House press 302, but at this moment item 6 - House press 301 is under discussion.) I will now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, to whom we ordered this bill at first reading, and we have the House Press 301/1 to present the resolution of the Committee to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Economic Committee of the 15th meeting of 14 January 2015 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 406/2000 Coll., on Energy Management, House Press 301. Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Novotný, report by Mr Milan Urban and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the Parliamentary Press 301 as amended by approved amendments and legislative technical conditions. - Now there are 21 amendments that are part of the resolution, and you have it in the system. II. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. III. He instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee. IV. He shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I'm saying I don't have an application for it. [[One Member shall report to the right.]] Mr Adamec is reporting, but before him in a general debate with priority rights, Mr Jan Mládek, Minister of Industry and Trade. No? As a point of fact, Mr. Colleague, are you applying? Properly. All right, Mr. Ivan Adamec's proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. I gotta say, I feel a little bit like a thorny way down here to the counter today, but I'm getting used to it. I'm having trouble getting here, but... I wanted to say that I have already pointed out to the Economic Committee when discussing this bill, that the problem of labels or energy performance certificates is, for me, a topic that really irritates me very much, and that I am certainly not satisfied with what has been going on at our committee's meeting. I must say, then, that I have found the directive that tells me where these cards are to be used everywhere. I think it's a little overwhelming, at least for me. However, I still have such a problem that when the bill proposed here in the last House was discussed, I thought it was going a little fast. And under the threat, which, by the way, the Minister has repeated here today, which I understand, however, Directive 2010/31/EU clearly states what falls under the purchase of this label or energy performance certificate. [[unintelligible]] And when I looked at the draft of this law, this amendment, I found out more or less in Section 7a of the Energy Performance Certificate that actually in paragraph (c) we have something that is not directly in the directive, but beyond that directive. Because my approach to these energy certificates is what it is, so I would take the liberty, in my amendment, to which I would then sign up in a detailed debate, of this part, which concerns buildings with a larger size, the label, of simply removing the obligation. And I'll tell you why. When I asked why it is so defined here in these cases, I was told that it was because of SVJ, because of housing associations, which would more or less not have to do the label, but that there is migration of tenants or owners, and that each time this change would have to be done again. It's something similar with administrative buildings. I don't think that's how we should feel about it. I believe that the owner is the owner and the obligation imposed on him by law, we should not anticipate his behaviour for the future. I believe that the card should be made when it is needed and not when we order it by law. And here I see the problem that, of course, I understand from a pragmatic point of view why it's set up there, but I don't think we should legally tell the owners how to behave. They could be SVJ that won't have a change in the house for 20 years. It may be an administrative building that will never be leased to anyone else, and then, in the case of sales, of course, the label comes in a row. I would like to say that I am not here to break the bill. Eventually, there was also a softening for buildings that came before 1947, such a fine softening. I was commenting on it in the words that it was inadequate. However, as far as possible, I think it was appropriate. But in my opinion, even these buildings, which are larger, should not be given taxatively by law, until they are to have these labels made, but it should be at the moment when they behave according to some model that is contained in the law and in the directive. I would then personally apply to the amendment, which is already in the system under number 1873, which is currently throwing out this paragraph (c) and renumbering the other paragraphs. And I am sorry that we didn't have time to discuss this on the Economic Committee because it was a lot, the amendments, and before I got to the directive, I really didn't want to propose it on the Committee anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u7	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc and ask who else to debate. Yes, the rapporteur with priority rights. [[On the right, several Members argue.]] Okay. Mr. President, please. Mr Novotný has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u8	Colleagues and colleagues, at the moment, like my colleague Adamec, I would return to one part of the debate on the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, which dealt with another aspect of this law, namely the issue of compulsory installation of gauges or so-called ratio indicators in housing houses, houses with more housing units and, of course, with a complex heating system. We at the Economic Committee discussed the matter on several aspects. For one thing, we have been warned by the professional public that the pressure on the introduction of this obligation alone is not as conditional on the relevant European directive, as the Ministry originally stated, because this obligation, which, of course, can burden various associations of owners, individual residents of flats of relatively high amounts, is imposed on us only if the relevant analysis at the level of the Czech Republic proves that such a measure is effective. When we found out if such an analysis existed, we couldn't get to it. Some analysis landed on our e-mail today, and I haven't had time to study it in detail. That was one aspect of the debate. The second aspect concerned whether such a system corresponds to the physical professional parameters of home heating systems, which are very complex, interlinked. A - in quotation marks - measurement in the context of one housing unit may not completely establish some fair conditions, because it is then used as a starting point for heat payments of course. I don't want to elaborate on these aspects here today. We didn't get all the satisfying answers. But for me the most important aspect appeared relatively late and it concerned one type of these - in quotation marks - gauges, those ratio indicators that have the quality of not measuring according to the law on metrology, they do not have certification, even from the point of view of studying accompanying materials to these individual meters, the manufacturers themselves state that under certain conditions the error rate of these instruments can reach up to a hundred and more percent. The problem is, of course, that using such devices, such gauges at a time when the economic balance and specific payments of individual inhabitants are also linked to this, at a time when it is not certified instruments, can be a problem. On the Economic Committee, we promised that the Ministry, aware of this potential problem, would try to do something about it. And today, members of the Economic Committee, we have received an e-mail text from the implementing decree, which, after my court - and I thank you - is looking for an escape route by offering people various solutions. But I see the problem that people don't need to know that the escape route, one of them, is the right one, and it doesn't lead to problems. I don't know if completely building escape routes is the right way to adopt new legislation. In this situation, even though the Ministry has tried to solve the problem this way - he can lead to great discord in the housing houses and problems between people - I still consider it a cleaner solution to solve this problem by removing it from the law and returning to it properly one day. I will therefore sign up in a detailed debate on the amendment, which will propose this after my court a cleaner solution. I don't give him much hope of success. I'm giving up the retreat route imaginary. On the other hand, I don't know how we're gonna get information about people so we can tell them that they'd rather take the retreat route, that it's safer than the other way that the decree allows. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u9	I thank Mr Martin Novotný for his speech. And before we continue the debate with the rapporteur's speech, I note that there has been an apology from today's meeting at 18 o'clock from Milan Šarapatka. Mr rapporteur, you have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would like to point out more or less here that at this point we are approving an amendment to the law, which is a partial implementation of the European Energy Efficiency Directive, and here it is a bit unpleasant that we currently have an amendment to the Energy Act in the House and an amendment that is merely an implementation of the directive is ahead of the fundamental amendment to the Energy Act. I think that these two amendments belong to each other quite a lot, and unfortunately, the time discussion is what it is. However, it must be said that, at least according to the logic of the matter, the energy law should be discussed first and then this directive. However, I understand, of course, the requirement for the speed of approval of this directive from the point of view of the European Union. Why do I think it's a little unfortunate that this amendment to the law is going ahead of the energy law? The amendment you have before you, the amendment to the Energy Management Act, opens up absolutely fundamental topics for Czech energy. These are topics of energy saving, energy efficiency and diversification. These are things that really belong to the modern economy and should not only be addressed in this amendment and the implementation of the European directive. Following the examination of the explanatory memorandum submitted to this amendment, the Final Report from the regulatory impact assessment under the RIA guidelines, it is noted that this amendment has no impact on the environment. And I think it's not quite right, because it has environmental impacts, and those impacts should be positive. I think it deserved that the effects were somehow quantified. Because the novel, as it is built today, sounds very official, very bureaucratic, which, of course, we will never avoid, but why we actually approve it, i.e. the positive impact on the environment, in this amendment, e.g. in this explanatory memorandum, it is not emphasised. I think it's not quite right, and I think we should just stress the environmental benefits here more. As I said, in the Energy Act, i.e. in the one currently in the Economic Committee, these issues will be reopened, the discussions will be held there again. I believe that it will benefit both Czech energy and the environment, so it will be in line with this amendment and that we will not have to open this amendment in the near future due to the changes that will take place in the energy law, because there are indeed many amendments. So I'd like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u11	I thank the rapporteur for his speech. Who else in the general debate? If no one, I am ending the general debate. There was no procedural proposal. We will continue with the debate in detail, which Mr Martin Novotný signed up for in his speech. My colleague Adamec - yes, but... [[Ambassador Adamec is getting up from the bench.]] In the debate, Mr Novotný, my colleague. [[with a smile]] First will be Mr Novotný, then Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u12	My colleague Adamec did it earlier. Colleagues and colleagues, at this point in time, I would like to sign up to House Document 1877 on the amendment in which, in part, the first in the article. I the whole point number 23 is deleted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u13	Thank you. Now, Mr Adamec, then Mr Zemek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u14	So thank you for your word. I said it's complicated with me today. So I'm applying to House document 1873. It's very simple. It is an amendment to the Government's bill, which changes forty-six, etc. In Article I, the following point shall be inserted after point 27: Article 1 (1) (c) shall be deleted; Points (d), (e) and (f) shall be renamed (c), (d) and (e) respectively, and the numbering of points shall be numbered in accordance with the abovementioned addition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u15	Thank you. Now, colleague Zemek. A copy, please. Gentlemen, before I give Mr Zemek the floor, it is complicated because you do not give written applications, and then, of course, it is complicated that we must give priority to written applications, and that is why the order is changing. Mr. Zemek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u16	Thank you for the floor. I will be brief, I would just like to sign up for the amendment, which you will find under the House press number 1885. It is almost identical to the resolution of the Economic Committee, only with the exception that Section 7a specifies the wording concerning buildings which were built before 1947. So the exact wording is in document 1885. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u17	Thank you, Mr Zemek. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Mr. Secretary? Yes. Minister Mládek in the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u18	First of all, I would like to thank you for the constructive debate that took place in the Economic Committee, where both labels were discussed and the heat calculation within the SVJ. We settled most of it during a detailed debate. Both gentlemen who tabled their amendments here supported the Economic Committee and said that they would bring their unsuccessful changemakers here, which they also fulfilled. Unfortunately, I cannot support them in the knowledge of the complexity of this matter of calculating heat in SVJ, and I know this from personal experience, because I live in SVJ and I am a member of the committee and I know what problems we have with this, and we are looking for really the least bad solution. I also agree with the rapporteur that it would be better to have an energy law in an ideal world, and then only this, but we are not living in an ideal world, and I would probably not have achieved any results at all if I had done so. That's all for now, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-006-006.u19	Thank you, Minister Jan Mládek. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. It's not like that. Since there was no proposal that we could vote on, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister and we will continue. The next item is the item
