ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 418/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u2	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I would like to present to you the proposal for an amendment to the Act on excise duties and other laws in the field of biofuels, House press 418. In recent weeks, the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act has caused considerable media turmoil, supported by opponents to continue the tax advantage of biofuels. However, their arguments often lacked logic and truth. I would therefore like to rid the debate of the amendment of the political-media ballast and return it to a sober and material level. This material was originally part of the draft law amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and other related laws in the field of fuels and biofuels and is to de facto implement a multiannual programme to support the continued application of sustainable biofuels in transport for the period 2015 to 2020. The multiannual support programme was drawn up by the Ministry of Agriculture and approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 6. 8. 2014 pursuant to resolution 655, which at the same time obliges the Ministry of Finance to amend the Act on excise duty on biofuels. Now, then, to the factual argument. Firstly, the amendment certainly does not prolong the support for biofuels. Only a multi-annual programme for promoting biofuels in transport, which the European Commission does not identify, can do so. I would remind you that the Czech Government approved this programme last August, so it is already in force by 2020. The Czech Republic is fulfilling the obligation that all European Union countries have undertaken to use 10 per cent of renewable resources in transport by 2020, which is virtually no different from the use of biofuels. Another binding objective is to gradually reduce harmful greenhouse gases by 6 percent. It is probably unnecessary for me to describe here that the reduction of emissions in the air is needed for both health and the environment. This commitment is mandatory for each Member State of the European Union and we would be threatened with significant sanctions for its infringement. The Czech Republic has already signed up for a responsible approach to the environment by agreeing to Directive 2003/30/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels in transport, which contained a binding objective of introducing biofuels on the market by the end of 2010 at least 5,75 %. This directive was implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture. It was followed by Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, which contains a binding objective of ensuring that the share of energy from renewable sources in all modes of transport amounts to at least 10 per cent of the final consumption of energy in transport in 2020. This directive falls under the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Directive 98/70 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels lays down a binding objective of achieving a reduction of 6 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions from fuels by 2020 compared to 2010. This directive is under the Ministry of the Environment. Secondly, the amendment does not increase support for biofuels. On the contrary, it reduces and tightens the surveillance of the biofuels market. By amending the law, we propose to increase the excise tax on high-percent biofuels and to introduce new tax rates on clean biofuels. Biofuel, which is required to be incorporated into fuel, has never been a tax advantage. It is important to note that the current form of the excise duty law completely exempts pure fuel from tax, which leads to an unclear situation, because the Customs Directorate-General has no clear control over the trade in pure biodiesel. This is what we want to remedy for the state of a disadvantageous and risky state by this amendment of the law. After its adoption, an excise duty will be imposed on all types of biofuels. The state will thus have an overview of the market with them and will also raise more money in taxes. According to preliminary calculations, approximately 310 to 350 miles are selected. CZK per year compared to the current state. Cancel the tax advantage of biofuels would be equal to the actual destruction of more environmentally friendly transport. The producer price of biofuels is higher than the price of diesel or petrol and would not be competitive. I would like to inform you that, to a large extent, biofuels are used by transport companies or by the Czech Railways, for example. All domestic companies that produce and consume biofuels would have losses. They invested in new and challenging technologies, with the aid being paid at least by 2020. In the run, we would change the conditions and the investments of producers and consumers would be thwarted. And most importantly, it would also pose a threat to thousands of jobs, which would cost the state its expenditure and reduce its tax collection. Today, according to the calculations, it is estimated that 8,5 thousand are made up of biofuels in the sector of production, processing and distribution. jobs. The vast majority of European Union countries are currently fulfilling their commitment to emissions through the use of first-generation biofuels. These are produced, for example, from rape or sugar beet, which are crops which, under the right rotational procedure and suitable agro-technologies, do not harm fields, as some laymen think, but vice versa, they are improving crops. The European States support the production of biofuels. Contrary to what is currently being said in the media, the European Commission has not decided that support for these biofuels must end in 2020. On the contrary, nothing has yet been decided and second-generation biofuels produced from waste, the European Commission has only just begun to negotiate. There is currently no company in the Czech Republic capable of producing these fuels to a greater extent, and there is a similar situation in most countries of the European Union. Furthermore, production is highly expensive. The future is unpredictable, and it is difficult for us to bet our commitment to the European Union on an uncertain card such as second- and third-generation biofuels in an effort to improve the environment. We can't rely on electric or hydrogen drive very much, because there is only a negligible market share of these cars so far. It is also necessary to ask, if we are talking about second- and third-generation biofuels today sometime before 2010, what previous governments have done to make science and research in this area significantly further than today. Because of our commitments as a member of the European Union, we need to meet 6 percent reduction in transport emissions, so biofuels will still have to be used. Without a tax advantage, producers would project financially demanding biofuel production into the prices of all fuels, so that each car owner would pay more for them in the finals. The surrounding countries also support the consumption of biofuels by various advantages. In Slovakia, excise duty reductions apply to certain types of biofuels, in Poland, biofuels are exempted from excise duty in mixtures containing more than 2% of the biofuels in fossil fuels, Polish producers also have the possibility to obtain investment aid for the production of biofuels. Even in Austria, excise duties are reduced, and Rakušan can also benefit from aid for the purchase of low-emission vehicles and alternative fuel engines. In Hungary, E85 fuel, or bioethanol, is exempt from excise duty. [[16.30 hours]] I would also like to set the right amount at 9 billion. CZK, which is said to be the total tax advantage for biofuels for the next five years, i.e. money that the state is not supposed to collect on taxes. This figure is misleading because it is the envisaged ceiling, the maximum possible limit of the tax advantage. In addition to the advantage, and I would like to point out, biofuels producers are not entitled, but end distributors, who also pay value added tax on biodiesel to the State. By comparison, for five years from 2009 to 2013, this advantage for biofuels represented approximately 4 billion. CZK, even then Miroslav Kalousek, in the Chamber of Deputies before 2010, stated this proposal with the possibility that any notified support may be up to 11.7 billion. Kč. In view of the time when the directives that impose on us what I was talking about were adopted, i.e. for the governments in which Miroslav Kalousek was sitting, we are today fulfilling the commitments that Miroslav Kalousek had given. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please, at the very end. It's a very important text: There is no doubt that this regulation will have a considerable impact on public budgets. The Treasury estimates him somewhere between four and five billion. CZK annually provided that there will be no tax evasion. The tax administrator, and we have been extremely committed to this, will do everything possible to avoid such evasion. However, where there is space, there are risks and, of course, it can never be ruled out that the leaks will occur. These theoretical tax evasions must be added to the 4 to 5 billion. arithmetical slump. Nevertheless, in accordance with its programming statement, in accordance with the conclusions of the European Council, the government of the Czech Republic is determined to fight climate change to the last man, to the last drop of blood, to the last tailor, and therefore, on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, I would like to ask you to discuss and approve this bill. [[Laughing and applause by several Members]] That's not what Marian Jurečka said, Miroslav Kalousek 25 said. 3. 2009 at first reading when discussing the same amendment in principle. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u3	I thank the Minister for his speech and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear rape lobby, before I introduce you to the rapporteur's position on this bill, allow me to refresh, especially those who were not there at the time, a few historic milestones in the promotion of biofuels actually for meeting the objectives which we have committed ourselves to under the Government of Topolánkův. [[Room noise]] I won't bother you with the woody times of the 1990s and grant titles, the history is 20 years old, but I will start with the first milestone where he quoted me so nicely, and I thank him, Minister Jurečka. I will start with the first programme, which was first notified for the Czech Republic within the European Commission for the years 2010 to 2015, which consisted of tax relief of clean biofuels, i.e. high-volume biofuels, whether bio alcohol or rape oil. Again, for high-volume biofuels that have been exempted from excise duty. Thus, a product was created on the fuel market, which was competitively priced because it was not subject to excise duties, and some carriers gradually started to switch to it and indeed its consumption increased. This was the programme, which was notified for the years 2010 to 2015, without anyone promising that it would be extended after 2015. This means producers who today say that they waited at least until 2020, in good faith, saying this for no reason at all. The programme has been notified for the years 2010 to 2015 and this authorised public aid will expire on 30. 6th of this year. The second very crucial milestone was 2012 when, on the basis of the European Directive on the compulsory incorporation of biofuels into fuels, it was approved under relatively dramatic circumstances in this House by the amendment to the Act on Air, which introduces an obligation for all distributors to mix biofuels into fuel, so that 4.1 per cent of bioliquy into petrol and 6 per cent of biodiesel into diesel is mandatory. However, given that we had previously notified the tax advantage scheme for high-volume biofuels, there was a duplication of public support. The first public aid consisted of tax relief for clean biofuels and the second public aid in compulsory regulation that you must mix the relevant percentages into a litre of petrol and diesel as a distributor. It was a duplicate public support, which is something that just doesn't feel right. In order not to add up the effect of these two aids, the amendment to the Air Protection Act was and still makes a very reasonable provision that you can fulfil this obligation to sell a certain amount of biofuels to the fuel sold both in a way both through the sale of clean biofuels and through compulsory incorporation. In other words, the more you sell clean biofuels, the less you have to mix. Only in that extreme case, and there is indeed a number of distributors who fulfil their obligation by selling out their respective quantities of clean biofuels, and then they no longer have to mix and sell only pure fossil fuels. The mandatory volume of biofuels they have already sold. Again, there are two public aids, but the possibility to subtract from each other, i.e. the effect of these aids does not add up, the dimension is constant. And so it is to this day. That's the current legal situation. In August 2014, the government actually approved the continuation of the fiscal support for biofuels by 2020, which, to be honest, was not expected to happen in 2012 when the amendment to the Air Protection Act was approved. On the contrary, there was a solution to the situation of not allowing the effect of the two public aids to be added up, so you can deal with it either by selling clean biofuels or by mixing, or by combining, with that in 2015... kolega, please. It is quite difficult because it is a sophisticated issue and I would like you to understand it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u5	I'm so sorry. I'm asking colleagues who are talking about something else to transfer their call to the lobby. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u6	With the end of the tax aid for clean biofuels in 2015, and only the compulsory incorporation will continue, and it will be just the one public aid provided for in the obligation to mix. In August 2014, the Government adopted a different position on this, actually approved the extension of tax support for clean biofuels until 2020, which is something that needs to be notified again and is not notified to this day, and, following the resolution approving this programme, the Minister of Finance has prepared and submitted, as the resolution from this programme imposed on him, an amendment to the Consumer Tax Act. And that's the 418 press that we now have ahead of us and which we are discussing. But he didn't save it for him. He ordered him to process an amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, the Minister of Finance from diligence submitted the amendments two, which you have in print 418/0. The amendment to the Consumer Tax Act and the amendment to the Air Act, which was not mentioned here by the petitioner Minister Jurečka. Excuse me, please, I'll have a drink. So it's two amendments, and since we have a couple of amendments to the Consumer Tax Act, we've had 417/0, we're going to have cigarettes here, let me tell this amendment the draft of the Agrofert Group's double public support law. Let's go over the support one by one. [[16.40 hours]] The first public support to Agrofert, not only to her, but to Agrofert dominantly, is to extend the tax relief. Minister Jurečka was undoubtedly right, until now biofuels are exempt from excise duty. The proposal envisages that they will be subject to a relatively marginal excise tax of CZK 1.80 per litre. However, of course, such a small burden of excise duty on the product continues to make it a very attractive, affordable product on the market. And by being burdened with this minimum excise duty, it will also fall under the monitoring of customs administration, so it is essentially for mandatory consumption and its production of these biofuels, it is essentially advantageous. The total amount of this tax relief was estimated by the Ministry of Finance for the years 2015 to 2020 at a total of CZK 9 billion at the expense of public budgets. Of this, about 8.2 billion at the expense of the revenue of the state budget and about 800 million at the expense of the revenue of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. It is therefore public support from public budgets of 9 billion. There has been a pretty funny discussion about who this public support is addressed to. Whether the customers or the manufacturers or the distributors have the advantage. Let us say, technically speaking, in terms of the right to refund the excise duty, the right arises from the tax warehouse's release of fuel for free tax circulation. According to technological possibilities, someone has the tax warehouse at the manufacturer, such as Unipetrol has it at the refineries, Agrofert has its tax warehouses at Preol Lovosice, Agrofert Domažlice and elsewhere. Everyone has that tax warehouse where it suits him, and the law and the obligation arises in that tax warehouse. However, it is completely indifferent to who the advantage is addressed to, it is completely indifferent where the manufacturer-distributor-customer is the tax warehouse on the line and where the return is due. The tax relief is for the purpose of promoting sales. No one's doubting that. At the same time, the promotion of sales is aid to production. Of course, no one doubts that either. It's a simple equation that even the kindergarten kids don't doubt. Perhaps many of you will recall a ghost who went around Europe seven years ago on behalf of a scrap heap. It was said that anyone who bought a new car would receive a contribution from the state to buy the new car. I think it's an honor that I prevented this monstrosity from entering the territory of the Czech Republic. But even the biggest supporters of this instrument did not dare to claim that they were promoting it so that those poor poor customers would have cheaper cars. No one dared to say that. Everyone fairly admitted that this was in favour of the producer, in favour of the producer, in favour of the car industry. So even in this case, if it is dedicated - go on the phone somewhere else, Mr Schwarz, I will not yell you out - that is, even in this case, if 9 billion is dedicated to promoting the sale of biofuels, 9 billion is dedicated to supporting the production of biofuels, and considering that Agrofert has almost 60 percent on the domestic biofuels market and is also the dominant producer of rape, then the consideration that of these 9 billion is 5 billion is dedicated to supporting the production of Agrofert is more modest than exaggerated. I would therefore like to draw your attention, Prime Minister, to the fact that however fair the Minister of Finance admits, as you say, fairly admits the conflict of interest in this matter, he is fundamentally deceiving the amount of conflict of interest in this matter. That really isn't the 70 million. It might be 70 million in a normal situation, but it's not really the 70 million. I don't know what his profits are. I do not see the internal numbers of the Agrofert group and I do not want to see or want to see, but that out of the 9 billion public support, 5 billion are dedicated to supporting the production of the Agrofert group, there can simply be no doubt about it. So that's the first public support. It might still be understandable if it were not accompanied by an evil combination of the amendment to the air protection law, which is part of this proposal. We have an amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, but there should be an amendment to the Consumer Tax Act and an amendment to the Air Protection Act. The spicy point is that the Minister of Finance, the ID number 001, and the amendment to the Act - the Minister of the Environment is responsible for the legislation on air protection, the number 002, and it is presented by the Minister of Agriculture, his ID number in KDU-ČSL I do not know. [[Fun in the hall.]] This amendment to the Air Protection Act in Section 19 regulates and regulates monitoring, monitoring of biofuels, but, above all, significantly restricts the possibility that we have discussed here, namely the possibility to deduct the obligation to mix through the sale of clean biofuels. A moment ago, I pointed out that in 2012, we were very careful not to add up the effect of the two aids so that the volume would be constant. The amendment to the Air Protection Act in Section 19 limits this possibility by 70 percent. Because it says - no matter how much you sell, distributor, the clean, tax-favoured biofuels you want, you are still obliged to put 2 percent of bioliquy in petrol and 4 percent of biodiesel in diesel, which is a 70 percent reduction in the possibility of subtracting, that is, in the marginal case of logically jumping to 70 percent increase in the consumption of biofuels by adding, i.e. by duplicate of the two aids. Who will profit most from this, we said a moment ago, when we said who is the dominant producer on the biofuels market. This relatively innocent technical paragraph, which, however, dramatically increases the mandatory consumption of biofuels in the country, did not escape the sharp eye of Minister Jurečka, who, in the commentary procedure on this proposal - here again please, presented the Minister of Finance, who claims "I did nothing, the Ministry of Agriculture" and referred to the Ministry of Agriculture. A The Ministry of Agriculture made a fundamental comment in the commentary procedure to the extent relevant and competent that I would rather read it, because as well as Minister Jurečka did, I would not be able to formulate it. Please, the reminder is - we're talking about Section 19. [[16.50 hours]] "The introduction of this institute cannot be accepted. In particular, where the alleged improvement in air quality is argued, as more and more scientific work notes that biofuels have a more negative impact on the air than conventional fuels. Moreover, in particular, biofuels of the first generation, which are concerned, are not currently perceived positively either by conservationists or by the European Union itself. It can be recalled that the European Commission's material according to which biofuels from oilseed rape, taking into account the side effects of production, leads to the production of more greenhouse gas emissions than fossil fuels. The assessment has led to the conclusion that the biofuels from oilseed rape, which is a source of 80 per cent of biofuels consumed in Europe, will not meet the current European Union requirements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.' In the following paragraphs, it is clearly described how the cultivation of oilseed rape has a negative effect on the landscape, on arable land, on the wetland, on the risk of increasing the flood. And Minister Jurečka concludes with his comment: "In these circumstances, all proposals for monitoring biofuels or proposals for their higher use or stricter monitoring beyond existing and future trends are making no sense to revise laws based on the original plan for promoting biofuels in the European Union." This point is essential. Well, you could have carved into a rock! That's just the truth. The Minister for Finance has submitted a proposal that, in combination with duplicate aid, tax relief for clean biofuels and compulsory incorporation, increases sharply the mandatory consumption, i.e. the production of biofuels. The Minister of Agriculture does not like this, and he makes a fundamental comment against it. Then the reminder disappeared somewhere. There's no point in examining how and when and why. The fact is, it just happened. The fact is that the Ministry of Agriculture is a point of reference, i.e. The idea that someone without the Minister's knowledge can apply a fundamental reminder or withdraw a fundamental reminder without the Minister's knowledge is an idea outside the real world. Of course, every minister knows that he is making a fundamental comment, and every minister knows that he is downloading it and why. It's his right, of course. Instead of a fundamental comment, in which Minister Jurečka protests against a sharp increase in consumption, and thus the production of biofuels, Minister Jurečka starts to support this material and praises it in a joyful way, because, as you can read in this material, this increase in the production of biofuels of the first generation gives a huge chance to increase jobs in the countryside by up to 14,000. In my opinion, that is, of course, nonsense. Those fields aren't inflatable. If there's no rape growing there, there's gonna be something else going on. But even if I were wrong, if the increase in production really meant an increase in employment by 14,000. - I say again, it sounds like nonsense to me, but well, the ministry material says so, I can be wrong - so it's only for the five years, because in 2020, the tax advantage has to end, the material as you have it in front of you, it also ends at 31. 12. 2020 and the fictitious 14,000. People will be out of work again. But until then, the Czech landscape will be plundered, agricultural land will be destroyed, public budgets will be plundered, not for the benefit of public welfare, but for the benefit of several agrobarons, the largest of which is the first vice-president of the Czech government. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] It is not at all true that it is necessary to increase the production of first generation biofuels extensively to meet our objectives. Indeed, there are second-generation biofuels, although today the scientific community and environmental organisations doubt them. But those capacities exist in Europe, even not insignificant capacity exists in the Czech Republic, I believe in a volume of about 5,000. tons a month, which isn't enough. And since second generation biofuels have a double effect on greenhouse gas emissions than first generation biofuels, of course their involvement in the system will increase efficiency, not intensively but intensively. The problem is that the material you have on your desk and the program that the government has approved doesn't count on it at all. It only counts on first-generation biofuels and does not allow second-generation biofuels to enter the Czech Republic's biofuels market, because even if they exist, they have one terrible disadvantage - none of them belong to the Agrofert group and therefore is only competition. In summary, underlined. Mr. Babiš wrote a proposal for a sharp increase in the production of his products, a significant increase in his turnover, his profits, to be carried out by Babiš as Minister of Finance by both the government and the government, and somehow persuaded Minister Jurečka to present and present it here for him. To complement this atmosphere, it may also be worth mentioning that several distributors have lodged a complaint against this amendment to the European Commission for unfair duplicate support, because the duplicate can be deducted, i.e. There's only one effect. As Minister Jurečka puts it now, the effects add up, i.e. The production's growing. Some distributors strongly protest against this, and to illustrate the atmosphere, it is appropriate to add that none of them had the courage to sign a complaint against Mr. Factory because they were afraid of the Minister. Welcome to Armenia - and I apologize to the Armén because I think that this story, this story of this scandalous conflict of interest and scandalous presentation of legislation for its private interest at the expense of the Czech landscape and at the expense of public budgets, could not even be passed in Armenia today. Each performance deserves a quote from an authority that generally applies to a number of cases other than the one given. Let me also do this in this case and turn to the authority of the Czech Foreign Minister Zaorálek and quote his sentence, which he said here on Wednesday: "No one can expect us to put money in the pockets of the oligarchs." That's a good sentence. Yes, I certainly hope no one can expect that from us, assuming that oligarcha hasn't bought most of us in the meantime. And I firmly believe he didn't buy and buy. The proposal we are discussing contains huge risks to the budgetary, huge risks to the Czech landscape and extraordinary risks to society in terms of a scandalous and unprecedented conflict of interest. Therefore, in the general debate that I am reporting to, I can do nothing but reject this proposal, which will not mean the end of the compulsory incorporation. He'll keep paying for that, please. We're just gonna stop this immoral attempt at a severe mandatory increase in Babišův's product collection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Kalousek, and I open a general debate in which I first have three priority rights. Mr Petr Fiala, the President of the ODS, who I now give the floor to, after whom President Stanjura, President Faltýnek, came forward with the right of priority. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say at the beginning of my speech that I am very sorry that the Prime Minister is not here to see me. The Prime Minister, whatever his duty, should simply be at the hearing of this law, the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, because we are not discussing the standard law, the standard amendment, but we are discussing a matter which has a significant impact on the political culture in this country, the state of our democracy and which is extremely serious. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening here is not the primary responsibility of Minister Babiš, Minister Jurečka, but the prime responsibility for this is to the Prime Minister, who allows this colossal, callous conflict of interest to heaven, to leave it alone. And when this conflict of interest is being discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies, the Prime Minister is not here. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u9	I'm sorry, Mr President, I don't know if your words or anything else have caused any noise here. I ask the Members, especially on the left, to transfer their calls to the lobby. [[There are several debating Members standing in the alley in front of the ČSSD benches. One of them is objecting to something.]] Ambassador, please leave for the lobby if you want to noisy. [[After a while, the O.R. will calm down slightly.]] Thank you. Please, Mr. Chairman, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u10	Last time we discussed the separate part of the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, the House Press 417, the Prime Minister here explained that the Ministry of Finance had prepared this law, submitted it to the Government at the meeting, and then that the Minister of Finance abstained from voting because of a conflict of interest. First of all, the Minister of Finance said in public that there was no conflict of interest here. But, as it turns out, what happened in the government and what's happening here, he's aware of his conflict of interest, even though he said otherwise. It only confirms our words, our concerns at the beginning of this government, when we said that there would be a permanent conflict of interest here, a conflict of interests that is irresistible and will cause problems. However, in connection with this amendment, I would like to say something else, something else. This isn't a conflict of interest. This isn't just a classic conflict of interest anymore. This is an abuse of your own political position for your own economic interests. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is even more serious than a conflict of interest. And I don't care if the profit is five billion, a hundred million, or seventy million. Even if it's just $70 million, it's wrong. And any of you who vote in favour of this will be responsible for this in the future. I want you to remember that, ladies and gentlemen. The problem we have here is really - and I don't want to go into details or play the part where I understand rape cultivation and all the details of excise duties. But the problem is actually hidden in Section 19, because there is a new obligation here to mix a biofold into almost every liter of fuel. This must, of course, increase the volume of biofuels produced, thereby increasing production and, of course, increasing the profits of Agrofert. Of course, the finance minister who presented this had to deal with a dilemma because, on the one hand, as the finance minister, he needs to obtain more taxes, which he is failing to do, and on the other hand, as the owner of Agrofert, he needs the lowest excise duty that would reduce the price of biofuels, thereby increasing demand for them. And how did he solve this dilemma? Well, he solved it with the help of the government with this new obligation, which will clearly bring the profits of Agrofert and Andrej Babiš. [[Members of the ANO movement are rebelling. Mr. Faltynek screams nonsense!]] Finally, let me say that if we have a conflict of interest in Andrej Babiš, who - at least that is what it looks like - is aware of Andrej Babiš himself, there are other actors in conflict of interest and should act accordingly. Undoubtedly, the President of the Faltýnek Parliamentary Club is also in conflict of interest, who is also a member of the Agrofert Board of Directors. [[A Member of the Palty with a smile screams: 100%! I'm sure you do.]] But in my view, all the members of the YES movement are also in conflict of interest. [[Laughing Members of the ANO movement. Screams: Of course!]] Because when I look at who sponsors and finances the ANO movement, it is mainly companies or companies from Agrofert group that delivered tens of millions of crowns in the past period. So if Agrofert profits, it will affect the funding of the ANO movement. Dear colleagues of the YES movement, I call on you, through the President, to be aware of this conflict of interest, just as your President has done, and to abstain from voting in this item.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u11	I thank Prime Minister Petr Fial. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Jan Volný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, co-workers, I don't want to argue here whether or not I'm in a conflict of interest as a member of the YES. But what I'm saying here is, I don't like lying. And I don't like being lied to. And if you're lying from this place, it's all the more miserable. President Fiala said: "The new introduction of the obligation to incorporate a bio-component into fuel is being made. " Please, your governments have introduced this mandatory mixing of the biocomponents. That's a long time ago, and it's five years. Please don't lie in front of us and the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u13	I thank Mr Volný for his point of view. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Civic Democratic Party's Citizen's Club Zbyněk Stanjura, followed by Mr. Chairman of the ANO member's club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u14	I am glad that the Volný Member has acknowledged that he is in conflict of interest, that this is true. But that's normal. You yourself have published that I mean 65 million to your movement, which means each one of you, loaned by Andrej Babiš. That information in Babišpress you posted yourself. [[unintelligible]] I'd like to ask you a question about Mr. Shadow's law maker, Mr. Minister Jurečka. Firstly, it is not true, as he says here, as he tried today at the press conference, that we committed to supporting biofuels. The truth is completely different. We have undertaken to reduce or increase the share of renewables in transport by 10%. And one of the tools is biofuels. I'm sure Minister Jurečka knows as well as I do and many of us that the European Union and the Member States have realised that this objective is completely unrealistic, ridiculous, faulty, and there is a debate on the reduction. At this point, there are three proposals. Five percent proposed by the European Commission. Seven percent proposed by the Council of Ministers. And a compromise proposal from the European Parliament - six percent. I wonder what the position of Minister of Agriculture will be, because that's the main one. I was at his press conference today, and from what I heard on the radio, he actually said that the Department of Agriculture had been tasked with the Treasury Secretary, and he actually processed it, and then he submitted it, because the finances did the job. It doesn't seem to me that the Minister of Agriculture is tasking a vice-premier, but he seems to think so when he publicly declared it today at a press conference. What position will the Czech Republic take? And how does this proposal, which he puts forward, defends and stands behind him - and so it is Marian Jurečka, as he always says: Miroslav Kalousek signed and committed, so then we will say: this is the law of Marian Jurečka, when they so proudly claim it - so how is it in harmony with the five, seven or six percent? Or if you, Minister, are you still targeting the 10%? Then I have another specific question for Minister Jurečka as the person who presents the law to the Chamber of Deputies. There has not been an excise tax on high-percent biofuels so far, and you are proposing to introduce, but lower than usual. Who set the higher? You or Agrofert and Andrej Babiš? [[17.10 hours]] When you set it up, based on what calculations did you come to the proposed amount? Because it's really unbelievable. The manufacturer shall at the same time determine the excise duty and thus determine the final price. And Minister Jurečka pretends to believe that it's actually all fair because when you know it's for Agrofert, it's transparent. Well, that's a strange logic. And, Minister, if you so proudly claim the law, then why did you remind him? Why didn't you prepare it? Is it true that the Ministry of Finance is a service organization of the Ministry of Agriculture? That you'll say that and they'll make you a law? I mean, Prime Minister Votav - he's not here right now, but I'm sure you'll tell him. As Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, I really insist that the law be explained and defended by the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for the Environment. I don't care who wrote. You signed up for this, and I believe that you and your people, not the Ministry of Finance, will come to us with specific questions for the Committee on Budgets. For example, how you figured out that excise duty rate. [[A note off the mic from the newsstand's desk.]] Yeah, did they say that in Agrofert? It's possible. At least that's a fair answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u15	Thank you to President Stanjur. Mr Radek Vondráček is now making a point of fact. Ambassador, please take two minutes. After him, Mr. Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u16	Thank you. I don't need two minutes. I'm just in response to Mr. Fiala and my conflict of interest. You know, I've been representing a food business in Kroměříž for many years as an attorney. And he was a good client and a good paying client. And when Agrofert bought it, I got fired. So I'm going to vote for this law because I don't feel in conflict of interest towards Agrofert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u17	I thank Mr Vondráček. With a factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u18	That's a very different story, Mr. Ambassador, through management. I really don't care that Agrofert fired you. Today the story is simple. Your political movement is funded by Andrej Babiš as the owner of Agrofert. Agrofert and his owner Andrej Babiš will benefit from this law. So, again, he will have the resources to continue to fund your activities, you specifically and everyone else. That's easy. That's a flagrant conflict of interest, and you, as an attorney, just know it. And it has nothing to do with the fact that Agrofert ever fired you. I'm really sorry that the right-wing opposition doesn't have any credit for that, I hope you'll accept that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u19	I thank Mr Stanjur. With a factual remark, Mr Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u20	Good afternoon, I won't keep you either. Our political movement is doing why it was elected by the citizens of this country to this Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u21	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. With another factual remark, Mr Laudát, Mr Kalousek, Mr Benda. First, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, and thank you so much for speaking to my colleague Chalupa. Now it's clear. First of all, it was said here that you were a political movement, because so far you have shouted in the Czech countryside that you are not politicians. And secondly - I don't know, I've been watching you, Babišův's slices have been digging me up intensely throughout the campaign, that I have a conflict of interest, so I watched and I didn't hear you say that you would tunnel public budgets, pass money to Agrofert, ruin the Czech countryside. I don't know - you said you'd just fix the ground! If that's your idea of order, I don't know. Go say it. And I would really like the Minister of the Environment to come out of this shell and express himself. He seems more and more strange to me, and certainly not manly. Someone's been amending his Environmental Protection Act, and now he's not even sitting here anymore, just in case. [[Looking around the ministers' desks]] Maybe he ran away or I don't see him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u23	I thank Mr Laudát. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. [[He says he's downloading the application.]] Mr Kalousek is downloading it, so Mr Benda. After that, Mr Fiedler and Mr Korte, all factual points. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u24	I don't like to get into these personal games because I don't think they are, but my colleague Chalupa's performance seemed so incredible to me. You ran, if I'm not mistaken, with the motto: Yes, it will be better! Then your chairman said you weren't sure when. And now you're telling me you forgot to tell people who. Agroferta!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u25	With another factual remark, Mr Fiedler. Mr Korte will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u26	Thank you for the floor. So I see that this is becoming more of an ideological debate than a substantive debate over this law. However, after listening, and very carefully, the words of both the petitioner and the rapporteur, I looked into the computer that most of us have here, and although Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš does not comment on this because he is in conflict of interest, I read an article on News. The fact that this is also becoming an ideological debate in the article says that Goebbels and demagogic liars are beyond that. In fact, it is presented by Vice Prime Minister Babiš - I quote from the article: Preol, Agrofert company, as a producer does not receive any subsidies. The excise tax discount is intended for carriers and distributors and for final customers, i.e. citizens who are filling up biofuels at service stations. Well, that's true, in part or in a matter of fact, I can agree with that more or less. But it doesn't say "b." That it guarantees the sale to the company at Agrofert. That there's a guarantee of a sale that's probably going on with some profit. And it is not said here either that C, which is very important to me as a member of the Committee on Budgets, that the unselected excise duty will be missing in that budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u27	I thank Mr Fiedler. With a factual remark, Mr Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I have to stand up for Mr. Babiš's First Deputy Prime Minister here. He didn't lie in the election campaign. He said he wanted to run the state as a company. He akorát forgot to tell the voters that he meant he wanted to run it as his company! [[emphatically]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u29	Thank you, Mr Korte. With a factual remark, Mr Josef Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u30	Good afternoon, colleagues, Mr President. I listened carefully to Mr Kalousek, who spoke here for about 20 minutes about what it was about. If I understood correctly, I'd share with you how I understood. That means, I'm sure Mr Kalousek will understand the example I choose, and that's the production of slivovice. That means I'm a grower, and I'm going to bring my money from my garden to the distillery, and I'm going to pay 50 percent in this distillery, which means I have a 50 percent discount on excise duty, which means I'm going to pay 143 crowns instead of 286 crowns. That means I'm cheating the state now, because the state will collect the 143 crowns less on excise duty. That means at this point, I'm the one who's involved in the fact that the state budget is getting less. Of course, the question is how far my plums, my trees, are hurting the environment. And we could discuss that. So from my point of view, if I understand it that way, Mr. Babiš has this big grower's brandy where he doesn't make the slivovitz, but he does the rape oil. So I'd like to try to move forward, put it on committees, ask the Minister of the Environment to come to those committees, the Minister of Agriculture will come. I'm sure there are 200 people who are capable and mentally prepared to discuss these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u31	I thank Mr Hájek. Mr Stanjura and Mr Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u32	I apologize very much to my colleague Hájek for your help. You were listening, but you didn't understand the text. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I'm so sorry. There's really no way to discuss this in committees at that level. Your slivovitz, whether you drank it or not, has nothing to do with it. It's completely different. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u33	With another factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u34	I'd like to respond to the challenge. Let's move this up to the committees and let's discuss it there. We can, of course, discuss excise duty in the committees, and we can also discuss the Air Protection Act in the committees. If we move this to committees, we will say at first reading: We are seriously prepared to deal with the fact that someone has written for themselves a bill that will increase its turnover by billions a year and allocate it several billions of public budgets. We're willing to deal with that, we're not willing to spit it out and take it off the table. And the social risk of this attitude should prevent us from doing anything other than throwing it off the table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u35	That was the last point of fact so far. In addition, with priority rights, the chairman of the ANO member's club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u36	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. I think we've all gotten used to this being the standard of this Chamber of Deputies. With Professor Fiala, the world-famous political scientist, I'm not surprised, he's not exactly here, it's a shame. But I'm a little sorry that we're using the numbers and arguments we pulled off this counter. My colleague Kalousek, a friend of Czech, Moravian and other farmers, said here that Agrofert - I quote - is "the dominant producer of rape in the Czech Republic." If he'd tried to at least look at the basic numbers. Then I will tell him through the President. In the Czech Republic, the area of 389 298 ha of winter rape was harvested in 2014, of which Agrofert 20,000 ha, which is 5.1 %. But if 5.1% is the dominant position, I don't have a problem with that. Now, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond briefly to the ongoing debate. Let me begin by saying that I have a conflict of interest in this debate. I'd say a huge, colossal conflict of interest. And that is because I dare to speak on this subject at all. As a person who has worked in agriculture and food industry all his professional life and has actively defended the interests of Czech farmers in recent years, not only within the Czech Republic, but in the last period, when a new programming period was discussed within the European Union as well as within the European Union. Yet I dare not say that I understand agriculture. Especially not to give opinions that something is clear, 100% etc. I would stop by, colleagues and colleagues, shortly at the Václav Moravec programme on March 29th. There Chairman TOP 09 Mr. Karel Schwarzenberg was giving the nation an initiation - I dare say - that rape is harmful to the soil, that biofuels are harmful to the soil, everyone in Europe withdraws, Agrofert is harmful to the soil, it is a criminal policy". I apologize to the absent President through the President, but he said one stupid thing after another! One crap at a time. One lie after another. Ladies and gentlemen, some of you must have attended high school or even high school of agriculture. For those who have not had the opportunity and need chemists or other experts, let me say a few words about the rotational process and crop rotation. I'll try to explain it in a simple way. In Europe, but not only in Europe, farmers are governed by the so-called economy. Norfolk rotational procedure. This is because farmers exchange so-called seed. improving and worsening crops. The soil improvement crop has a positive effect on the reproduction of soil fertility. The condition after harvesting this crop is better, the condition of the soil is better than the condition in which the soil left its forefruit. The crop aggravating the soil condition, or the soil condition after harvesting the crop, is worse than the condition in which it was left behind. This will be understood by a first-year grad student at a high school. Director Dobešová teaches this at the Secondary Agricultural School in Benešov. Improving crops are e.g. pod, i.e. peas, oil seeds, it's also rape, but also poppy or flax. They are also potatoes, diabetes, and cocoons, and forage and clover. Worsening crops are mostly cereals - wheat, barley, rye, etc. From this definition, therefore, it is clear that winter rape is an improving crop that leaves the soil in good condition. That's what high school and college textbooks say. I'm so sorry about this. I didn't make it up, folks. I really don't. Another myth and widespread lie is the claim that biofuels of the first generation, i.e. biofuels produced on agricultural land from cereals, diabetes, rape, actually damage the environment and Europe is leaving them. It needs to be made clear here that this is not true, that this is another pure lie and speculation. Another pure lie and speculation. If that were true, the surrounding countries would not plan to gradually increase the areas of rape. Specifically, Germany from 1.4 million ha to 1.8 ha, Poland from 620 thousand to 1.2 million ha, France from 1.4 ha to 2 million, Hungary from 290 thousand ha to 400 thousand ha. These are numbers verifiable in Brussels, my friends. Try checking them out. I'm begging you. Another myth is that the area of rape is growing in the Czech Republic. It's another nonsense. The area of grown rape in our country has been around the same level for ten years. Oscillates between 350 and 400,000 ha according to statistics. I said that number here last year at the beginning when my colleague Kalousek said how dominant we have or how Agrofert has a dominant position in the rape growing market. [[17.30 hours]] This is, of course, linked to the proven results of long-term CO2 reduction tests in biofuels compared to fossil fuels. I can show you here the certificates of Czech bioethanol and methyl ester products, where the CO2 savings of 60 and more percent are proven compared to fossil fuels. I'm looking for the certificate. I'm sorry. [[After a while, he shows it.]] It is a certificate issued by Tereos TTD, which is probably not from the Agrofert Group, it is a sugar factory in Dobrovice, which produces bioethanol from sugar beet, and the internationally recognized audit firm Bureau Veritas says that it is 61.13 percent lower CO2 emissions than for classic fossil fuels. The European Commission is very well aware of the results of these tests throughout Europe, which is why it is now considering that the mandatory 10 per cent of biofuels by 2020 will be at least 7 per cent of the first generation biofuels, or biofuels from crops grown on agricultural land. And here I would just stop by with a short sentence for Mr. Stanjura's performance. He was right. You've studied the numbers. There are basically three proposals that are in discussion: 5, 6, 7. I specifically mentioned 7 percent in my speech, because the debate is going on. And within the trialogue, no agreement has yet been reached. I thank my colleague Stanjur for that. But let's say, my friends, here objectively, we are in 2015, and we have five years to explore and put into practice and produce second generation biofuels, such as seaweed, wood chips or organic municipal waste. Nobody makes anything like this in our country today, but in Europe too. I myself am a skeptic in this area, and I think that there may yet be a re-evaluation of these plans within the EU, after all, it would not be the first time. We know that the EU changes its views very often. And if anyone says that we have second-generation biofuels, I don't want to use them anymore, I've said it many times, the word that he's lying, but he's not telling the whole truth. Unless, of course, he means Oleo Chemical, which has recently been investigated by police for strange deliveries of PHM to the Prague Transport Company. This company doesn't produce anything like that when you look at its website when it comes to second generation biofuels, it never produces, produces, and it's the question of whether it's going to produce it. But I am prepared to discuss this subject here professionally and discuss what specific commodities and raw materials this company is prepared or tried to make so-called. second generation biofuels - from waste oils, from which some 3,000 tonnes are collected here in the Republic, and we are talking about a total need that should meet the percentages, somewhere at 300 thousand tonnes in terms of diesel, and 120 thousand tonnes in terms of bioethanol. So when we return to the ground, we are faced with a problem of how to meet our commitment to achieving a 10% share of biofuels by 2020. Of course, we still have the option proposed by Kalousek, which means to tell the partners in the Union: sorry, sorry, we do not honour commitments, we end, we leave. That's also an option. But in 2009, the Minister of Finance was telling us otherwise. I wanted to quote, and here we can see that we have not coordinated our procedure with Minister Jurečka, because I have also photographed the tape recording of Minister Kalousek's performance and I wanted to quote him here, stating that the quote will not be long. And it won't be long for me. Therefore, and this bears witness to the hypocrisy, the enormous colossal hypocrisy of my colleague Kalousek, the matador of our political scene. At the time, he needed a few minutes for the same thing, the 25th of March 2009. And today? We can see that a few minutes isn't gonna be enough. Maybe we can make it in 19 hours, and I highly doubt it. So I'm sorry, I'm not gonna quote the second time you've heard, maybe just the last sentence I fell in love with, folks. [[Fun.]] I kept repeating it last night, trying to memorize it. [[Laughter.]] Nevertheless, the government of the Czech Republic, in accordance with its programming statement and in accordance with the conclusions of the European Council, is determined to fight climate change to the last man, to the last drop of blood, to the last tailor, and therefore, on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, I would like to ask you to discuss and approve this bill. - Storming applause from KDU-ČSL Members. Minister Jurečka didn't read that. [[Laughter.]] You want me to keep going, folks? Isn't that enough for us in this discussion? No? Isn't that enough? Thank you. But I promise to be very brief. So if we agree with my colleague, Mr Kalousek, the former finance minister, that we remain members of the EU and that we will implement the treaties that we have committed ourselves to, then, in my view, we have two options, in principle, to support and reduce the tax advantage of high-volume fuels, which is proposed by the government, or to increase the mandatory share of the incorporation of biofuels into conventional fossil fuels. Today our country is, and the figures here have also been heard from the mouth of President Stanjura, who has really focused on the numbers and the numbers are sitting, today our country is at 4.1 % for ethanol and 6 percent for diesel, neighbouring Germany has 6.25, France 7, Poland 7.55, Austria 5.75 %. So we, the Czech Republic, are roughly, in 2015, when it averages, to 5%. Without one way or the other, I don't think we have a chance of fulfilling our commitment. And in conclusion, allow me to make one final comment about our farmers. At present it is roughly our farmers, but I must say in my conflict of interest, of course, also farmers from the Agrofert group, in order not to be attracted to it again, at present about a third of rape, which is grown in the Czech Republic, is used to produce the methylester of rape oil, which is used to mix it into oil. But for your information, also about one third of the needs of the methyl ester of rape oil, which is incorporated into biofuels in the country, are imported from abroad. So we are faced with a decision whether we want to support domestic farmers or their colleagues abroad. The question is quite simple, because we can deliver basically the entire need of the Czech Republic from abroad. It does, as I said, for rape, respectively. for rape oil methyl ester, 300,000 tonnes and 120,000 tonnes for bioethanol. It's not a problem to import this volume. But I am in favour - I hope not to be alone in this opinion - but I am in favour of continuing to support our farmers and commodities from which biofuels are produced and to buy these commodities from our farmers. But if anyone else has a specific solution, please suggest it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I have three factual points here. The first is President Stanjura, followed by Mr Fiedler and Mr Kučera. Your point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u38	That, in a few years' time, someone will quote the words of President Faltýnek and the parentheses will be "a lukewarm round of applause for members of the YES." There will be no stormy applause, as was the case with KDU MPs. But I came to the counter for something else. First of all, I beg the President of the ANO House of Deputies to insult my President. I'm really begging you. And before you say "I'm sorry" before the insult, and then you insult someone, maybe someone will swallow you up either in your ex- or current political party. We don't. Nobody insulted you, I got off quite seriously, and you even acknowledged it. I was quoting numbers. One way is to negotiate a lower percentage at the European Council, not to be for seven or six, to be for five or nothing. But in general, it's a clear example of it, and mostly it's either left-wing or green circles - they decide to do good, a crooked market, some biofuels, support, and after years they go to one thing after another and they say, "It's not that simple." There are a lot of studies, and they are not studies made by opposition MPs. I came to the House in 2010, so I can laugh at the 2009 Stenogram. I wasn't here, so it doesn't offend me when you're quoting part or all, it really doesn't bother me. But to paraphrase a colleague from social democracy yesterday - note that the Social Democracy Club was not invited by Minister Jurečka, but by Minister Babiš to explain biofuels. That's weird. And what did the Social Democrat say? As the owner of Agrofert, he was very persuasive, not as the Minister of Finance. So this paraphrase - as President or as member of the Agrofert Bureau - is very convincing, Mr President of the MP's club, as my fellow Member and President of the MP's club, you were no longer so convincing. And thank you for the little educational window. I have not studied agriculture, but I prefer to choose my own trainers, not to have voluntary ones who train me themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I will now ask Mr Fiedler to prepare Mr Kučera with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to continue to stick to the facts. Through the President, I therefore turn to you, President Faltýnek. You listed the numbers here, I don't remember them. I had five percent of the rape stuck in my head. But through the President, Mr President, let us be factually administrative. It's not like it's the sown area where the rape is grown, but it's the trade and the processing. I will use the data I have from the E15 server, which I consider to be a serious source of information, and I will quote from it: The title Babiš controls production and purchase. Among the largest suppliers of biofuels in the Czech Republic are companies from Agrofert Group of Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. His companies Preol and Primagra contributed 55 percent to the supply of biodiesel for the state enterprise Čepro - for the state enterprise Čepro - which is responsible for the incorporation of biofuels into fuel. Babiš controls the activities of Čepro from his position as Minister of Finance. So much for my quote. I'll be glad to hear the arguments, the numbers, the words you disprove, that it's not, because it's not just rape growing, it's delivery. And it would also be fair to say that when you were talking about importing the rape, I have here an indication that almost half the quantity of the imports was exported again. That would probably be fair to say. So if Agrofert's companies aren't supplying 55 percent to the state enterprise Chepro, then let me just say that your data on the sown areas of rape was a demogogie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping up the good time. I will now ask Mr Kučera and after him, President Kalousek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u42	Thank you. I'm not going to respond here to the lies and insults made by President Faltýnek here. However, there is one thing I would touch. He was talking about a colossal conflict of interest. I don't think it's just a colossal conflict of interest. This is a colossal link between the big business and the government. And do you know what they say, President Faltýnek, through Mr President, the great link between the great business and the government? It's called corporateism. If you don't know what corporateism is, please look in some educational dictionary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u43	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Kalousek, Mr Volný will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u44	This has been recalled several times, and I thank you for this, as I advocated the 2010 programme for the years 2010 to 2015. And I've proudly reported it in my intelligence report. I am also proud to report that, on the basis of the European directive, I was one of those who voted in favour of compulsory mixing. I'm not questioning any of this. What I think is immoral, and what I strongly object to here is the duplication and addition of these two aids, because we have always been extremely careful not to be counted. And please, gentlemen, they made that up for the first time in Agrofert. He put Babiš in the government, and Jurečka is presenting it to us. I think I've made that clear enough. Nor do I think, not even the President, although he is an experienced forester and farmer, that we understand everything in agriculture. I certainly don't. But when I said rape oil is bad for the landscape, I quoted a comment from the Ministry of Agriculture. And I assume he understands agriculture at the Department of Agriculture. And the reminder is clear - it's bad for the landscape. And I have no reason not to trust the Department of Agriculture. Minister Jurečka never demented the comment, never pulled it off. He simply said at a certain stage: It is not so important to me anymore. It's bad for the landscape, but jobs are more important. However, it does harm the landscape, is the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture on the material that we are discussing. I have to appeal to some authority, and that's the Department of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u45	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Volný and, after that, President Faltýnek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u46	Colleagues, colleagues, in brief. He is not here, so I just wanted to clarify, because President Babiš has a conflict of interest and will not speak that he has not been invited to the club of colleagues from the ČSSD to explain the green oil. He was invited there and arranged this meeting for a completely different topic. But getting on to this, maybe that's true. But he certainly wasn't invited there to explain the issue of green oil. I'd better explain one of those fabs that fell in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u47	Thank you. I note another point of fact - Mr Faltýnek, then Mr Kalousek and then Minister Jurečka with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would like to reply by your means, Mr President, to my colleague, Fiedler. It's a shame we don't listen to each other. I've been trying to speak up to hear it, I've been shouted for it. I merely responded to a specific quote from my colleague Miroslav Kalousek, who said that Agrofert is the dominant producer of rape. And I said that in the Czech Republic it was grown or harvested in 2014 389 298 hectares and Agrofert of it 20 000, which is 5.1 %, and that, in my opinion, this is not a dominant position. If the question was how much Agrofert and his businesses bought the rape for further trading, then of course the numbers would be different. So I'm just specifying what was said and what was meant. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Now, therefore, with a point of fact, President Kalousek, after whom Mr Fiedler. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u50	Thank you for the clarification. I have no reason to doubt the figures said by President Faltýnek. It's really about the fact that if he's growing at 5% and the rest is dependent on me for input and output, I'm just dominant there. But we finally understand what we mean. I was glad that President Faltýnek did not dispute that Agrofert had almost 60 per cent on the production market, so we are still rich with the five billion, perhaps more of the nine. To Mr Freeman through Mr President, green oil is something else. That's what you dug up last year. But at least you lobbied for more farmers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u51	Thank you. Mr Fiedler and Mr Urban are now making a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u52	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President, I would really like to thank President Faltýnek sincerely for his reply. It is not customary for me to receive an answer, and I have received it quite frankly from you, which is from the representative of the government coalition, where the Prime Minister in particular places the motto 'ask me what you want, I will not answer or say anything else' anyway, so I really appreciate that, Mr President through the President. However, in my point of fact, I did not wish to claim or claim that Mr Kalousek was correct about the rape on the area. I'm the one who didn't argue. I was just saying that this thing is a little bit different, that it's not so much a sown area, it's the volume of processing and the volume of supply. And you didn't contradict me, so I assume the data I quoted from the E15 are correct, and it just confirms the fact that we're here in a gigantic conflict of interest. Unfortunately, colleagues, you can't deny that. That is why we will also propose the rejection of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u53	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Urban to make his point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u54	Thank you. I think it would be a good idea to educate this Chamber of Deputies here, because there are also questions in our parliamentary club about what this is about from the point of view of the support. There's two of them. One thing is mixing, and that's what this law is about, and that's not really a debate. This debate is about the product called full replacement, biodiesel. So the incorporation remains, let the law be passed, it will not be accepted. It's basically none of his business. So this is about the full replacement of diesel, the so-called biodiesel, with the fact that we just need to see this situation this way. And now that I have the floor, I'm gonna ask you one question. I think that Germany is a relatively clever state in terms of the use of European subsidies and the possibilities of various tax advantages, discounts, etc. So try to explain to me why Germany, or Spain, which I'm sure from the point of view - at least I suppose, I'm not a farmer, but I assume that in Spain agriculture will be dominant or one of the more dominant sectors - why don't they go this way? Germany withdrew the aid for biodiesel in 2013 if I have the correct information, Spain reduced the total refund of biodiesel by half. So from my point of view, it is not fair to say that this is some kind of European trend. It is fair to say that in Europe this path is a retreat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another point of fact - President Faltýnek, followed by Mr Kučera. Also with a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador? Yes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u56	Thank you. Unfortunately, what my colleague Urban said is not true again. It's just not true. It is true that Germany has withdrawn from the aid, but its liabilities are the same as ours. But it mixes in mandatory. Spain, too. There is no doubt about the effectiveness of German agriculture, especially the western part has a high intensity, today and the eastern part, which is clearly a rival for us. I was talking about areas of rape and planned development. In Spain, I would have a little doubt about the intensity of agricultural production. Maybe in the cultivation of oranges and olives, but not in classical agricultural production. The dispute we're having here today is not that we're arguing here whether or not it's supposed to reach 10 percent in 2020. We may all agree that if the European Union does not conclude by all votes or by a majority of its votes that it was wrong, which cannot be ruled out either, but we are looking for a way to meet this objective, and the high-content biofuels that we are debating today are about 30% of the total volume of biofuels that are used to mix. That's just to illustrate the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u57	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mr Kučera. After that, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u58	Thank you for the floor. I liked the comment of the Volný Member who said that Minister Babiš would not speak because he is in conflict of interest. That is how President Faltýnek, a member of the Board of Directors of Agrofert, speaks for him. [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] However, I would try to answer my colleague Urban, because he has not received the answer from President Faltýnek, or he has received such a misgiving, as is the custom for President Faltýnek. The Czech Republic is a record player of the European Union in the cultivation of rape. I quote for President Faltýnek not to question the source, Eurostat 2013. We grow it at 17 percent arable land. We are therefore a record player, 17 percent arable land, the second being Estonia 13 %, Germany 12 %, the former GDR dominates there, Poland 8.5 %, Hungary 4.5 % arable land, Austria 4 %. This is my answer to my colleague Urban. I'm trying a little bit to correct the figures Mr. Faltýnek has been clouding here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u59	Thank you. I shall now ask Mr Fiedler to make his point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u60	Thank you. I guess we're getting to the heart of things. Through Mr President, I thank President Faltýnek for perhaps hitting the poodle core, which we have been talking about all along. If it was said that Germany had abandoned the subsidy and still fulfilled these quotas, there must have been something going on in that market. And to make the fuel with the mixed components more competitive, or not at least so expensive, I suppose, within the scope of the volume and simply pricing - I believe, I may not be right - the prices of those suppliers have probably been reduced. And that's the core of the poodle I'm pointing at. So I guess the price would have to go down, and the profits would probably go down for that biofuel supplier. Whoever is behind the supplier of the biofuels, who it is, we know that very well. And maybe that's the poodle core that we're dealing with today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u61	Thank you. I am now not seeing any factual comment. Minister Marian Jurečka reports with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u62	Thank you. So the debate is so excited, it's getting out of hand with rational and real facts, and I'd like to try to put it back on the ground a little bit. I'd like to say what's going on here, and unfortunately, because some of you are talking here and you don't have the knowledge of the issue, so the point is that we're going to put the high-percent biofuels on excise duty for the first time today. Until now, she's been set free. The ones that are incorporated into petrol and diesel are burdened with the same excise duty as the fossil component that is there. And the European Commission is telling us - I have it in my mail today, and I am very happy to bring it to any meeting of the committee that receives this material, we will have to modify it afterwards - it tells us not 70 or 30 per cent, but you must do it at a minimum quantity of 4.1 per cent in petrol, which we have to meet as a minimum volume of biofuels, and 6 per cent in diesel. [[unintelligible]] So it's just going to be in every liter. This is not an invention of one of the ministries of the Czech Republic, which I have confirmed today in an e-mail from representatives of the European Commission. That's just a fact. [[18.00 hours]] This debate is about these rational things, not whether or not somebody made this up. Yes, in Germany, Spain, and other states, they go the way that they gradually increase the minimum share without aid of mixed biofuels in diesel and petrol. It may await us in the future, too, but it is not a matter of this debate and this law. On the issues that have been discussed here, I would like to say, if the rape lobby has been mentioned here, I would like to point out that almost 50 percent of biofuels are produced from sugar beet. If we want sugar quotas in the EU and in the Czech Republic after 2018, we want to keep sugar beet growing and talk about some future of this sector, it will not go without sugar beet biofuels. If there was any mention of the matter, who set the amount of excise duty by the Ministry. This was calculated by the Research Institute of Agricultural Technology under the Ministry of Agriculture at the beginning of 2013. Subsequently, the material had to be submitted to the European Commission and the calculations had to be defended. If it was written by an official, such an idea is completely odd and frightens me when the former minister even says so. It should be noted that, contrary to the previous situation, as Mr Fiedler said here, we will finally collect some tax, because the crown of 80 will make a tax return estimated between 310 and 350 million. CZK a year. Now, about what's been bowed down here several times. The question of the comment. Perhaps now I will do something that is not quite common in Czech political circles, and I will admit the error. I admit the error partly my own and the error of my resort. The comment, which was inserted there in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure to the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, was put there by the external advisor of the Ministry. The legislative legal department did not examine the relevance of the comments and the fact that it contradicts the material submitted last August and applied that comment there. Yes, I'm sure Miroslav Kalousek can justifiably object, and whoever you're sitting here, the minister should know. Yes, the minister is supposed to know everything, and in fact, with this optic, he should read every document he signs. Every day I sign maybe tens of kilograms of materials and it is not in the human capacity of the Minister to read them all. If there's a minister here, one of the former ministers who says I've always read everything, I don't think he's telling the truth. Frankly, I've admitted it to the press, yes, the mistake has happened, I've taken precautions not to make a systematic mistake like this again. I admit it, I apologize for that mistake. However, a substantive discussion on whether or not biofuels were yes was held in August last year, when the government approved material supporting the use of biofuels in transport by 2020. Today we're dealing with a technical amendment that says we're taxing high-percent biofuels, which has now been completely exempt, and we're not dealing with quantities at all. It doesn't matter here. And then the European Commission tells us: we want the minimum quantity to be mandatory in each litre. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u63	Thank you, Minister. I note three factual points, the first is Mr Laudát, followed by President Kalousek and then Mr Korte. Just before I give you my word, I'm gonna ask the Minister whether it's a priority right or a factual remark. With priority rights, yes. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u64	Thank you, I am very glad because I was just about to call on the Minister of the Environment again to stand on this issue from the ecology point of view, whether, to this extent, the cultivation of rape and other technical crops for biotunnels, if this is the right thing for the Czech landscape. Perhaps, gentlemen, since you've been here for this, I've registered three so far, you'd have spoken differently if you'd gone to the rape field in the winter months. Then maybe you'd talk differently. I mean, what's primarily, I don't know what you're applauding, there's just a big problem here, and that's a gigantic conflict of interest. For a long time, I didn't understand what reconstruction of the state looked like. Thank you for today's discussion. Now I understand how this reconstruction of the state is supposed to look transparent international. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u65	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u66	Thank you for the floor. Minister Jurečka, through the President, I do not want to argue with how many important comments within the year the Minister gives the essentials. I was used to reading the essentials. But okay. If we admit that you didn't know what you were saying, it's still true that the comment wasn't withdrawn. The Department of Agriculture didn't say it wasn't true. For you, it just stopped being essential. Even though you continue to believe that rape is harmful to the landscape, it is no longer essential for you and you are willing to accept that the Minister of Finance has written: it is not appropriate. That's what happened. You didn't say that's a false point. The comment is further, yes, the Ministry of Agriculture says it hurts the landscape, only the Minister does not see it as essential anymore. That's the real deal. If it's no longer important to you, please, but it's crucial to us when your office says it's bad for the country, and it doesn't stop saying it. First of all. Secondly, please, if there is to be 100% incorporation of 4 to 6 percent, we have no problem with this, but then let's tax full-blown biofuels. Because if the tax relief for clean biofuels remains and if incorporation is mandatory, what happens? Business with clean biofuels will continue because it will be an attractive fuel price, but next door it will be obliged to mix and add the effects of two aids, and that is exactly what I am protesting here. Let us introduce mandatory incorporation and abolish tax advantages, then it will be exactly as the European Commission wants us to do. But you want it twice! That's the naughty part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u67	Thank you. Mr Korte now and Mr Volný will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Minister for Pork Pimp explained to us in very detail why bio-license needs to be incorporated into fuel. Unfortunately, he didn't explain why he had to be subsidized twice. I would like that explanation from him now, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u69	Ambassador, I would ask you again to address each other without insulting each other. I shall now ask the Member free to make his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u70	Once again, my fellow Members, I would like to respond to the words of my colleague Laudát, how we are ploughing rape Czech landscape and land. I wanted to ask Mr Laudát and Mr Kalousek, through the President, if they were thinking about protecting the landscape, protecting the soil fund, fiscal policy of the state and the welfare of ordinary citizens, when they approved support and subsidies to solar power plants. It is a thing that has no comparison at all in Europe, and I think it has far more unfortunate impacts on the soil fund, on the economy of the state and on the well-being of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u71	Thank you. Mr Laudát, Mr Schwarz, is now making a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u72	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to answer with great joy in those two minutes. Solar energy, as it began to develop, I called it solar crap. I was not in the House when social democracy and other parties pushed through here, on the left, the only ODS has a clear conscience from that time. I think it was 2004, the Act on the Promotion of Renewable Resources. I was not here when one Social Democrat, who did not pursue this issue at all, tabled an amendment during further discussions and directed it to the trajectory of tunneling public and private sources, energy consumers, but I voted in favour of the solar business being taxed. I did not support Mr Fischerův's government as the only member of the ODS back then, and then in Mr Fischer's era, and then what happened happened was that somehow blocked immoral income. [[18.10 hours]] I voted in favour of this, and I have not relaxed prices for removal from the soil fund, unlike you. So my conscience is completely clear. I wasn't even on the Economic Committee in the era, when there was also something being kept secret and apparently letting it pass, I devoted myself to social policy. So I have a very clear conscience. And you hear what's going on here, and you're probably gonna raise your hand for it. Don't say anything to this country, to this people who have given you confidence, and to the great, greater than you deserve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u73	Thank you. Mr Schwarz is now making a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u74	It's probably tonight. Good evening. Mr. Vice President, I'm looking at Mr. Kalousek right now, I don't know if he'll take it or listen to me. I don't understand. I don't understand taxes. I just want to ask you, not lighten up, you know, I'm used to a lot of things from a former job, ugly things, unpleasant things. But there's one thing that bothers me so much. I'm not far from taking anybody here and telling him what I think about him, but I can't do it. I went to dance class, three times, I call it three times, but I'm sorry, I don't have to love the minister, he's a minister, you were a minister too. It was just for me once as a minister, as a person who was - right or left, but to hear here in the Chamber of Deputies that the Minister of Pork Pimp, or sometimes heard that the Minister of Laborless, don't be angry at how those people should appreciate us. He must be making fun of us. The only happiness that is that people don't look at us. I'd like to ask you that they're interested in something else. Wouldn't we rather talk about our salaries to unite and be more respectable to each other? So it'll go somewhere? It might seem happier for those people to me. But to be insulted, don't be mad at me, it's not appropriate. He's a minister once. Let's not love him, but let's respect him for being a minister. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u75	Thank you. I'm registering two more factual points. First President Kalousek, followed by Mr Urban. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u76	You are right, Mr Member, through Mr President. I took your words to heart before this point began to be discussed. That's why, as you've noticed, neither the minister without a job nor a pig pimp sounded through the space today, nothing like that. I am anxiously abstaining from this, and I am only trying to draw your attention to the gigantic conflict of interest that the Minister of Finance has, the owner of Agrofert, who passes several billions a year by proposing this law. This between us is infinitely more vulgar than any dirty word. So there doesn't have to be any vulgarism here anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u77	Thank you. Now, Mr Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u78	Thank you for the floor. I would like to receive an answer from the Minister of Agriculture, who presents the material. Germany annulled the full tax advantage for biodiesel in 2013. Period. That's the deal. The Minister of Agriculture says - clearly, I understand, because they went the way to increase the rate of incorporation. But before that, it was said that the likely incorporation agreement would be 7 percent. This is the same road as in Germany, perhaps even higher incorporation than in Germany. I don't understand. So let's try again - we have a clean refund for biodiesel. That's what this law is about. Germany annulled the tax advantage in 2013. If I'm wrong, correct me. You're saying that it went the way of compulsory incorporation, which we have in the law too, mandatory incorporation, and you're talking about increasing the proportion of compulsory incorporation. So we're going to produce about twice as much of the biodiesel that will be sold once as biodiesel, i.e. a net refund, and one day it will be sold as a product that is mixed into diesel. I think so. If not, let the Minister of Agriculture explain it to us again. One last point to use that time. I repeat again for those who are very wrong to criticize the former Member Šediva as the petitioner for the amendment that was supposed to create the solar boom here. It's not true, my friends! Mrs Šedivá did not propose such a proposal or voted on any such proposal. Find this in the documentation of the Chamber of Deputies and do not harm the name of a person who no longer sits here in the Chamber of Deputies. And it wasn't even social democracy. He was a member of the KSČM Club at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u79	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Korte. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I apologize to the absent gentleman here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u81	The minister is behind you - on his left hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u82	... the Minister for taking my words upon himself. I didn't name him. However, I would still ask if he could explain - I apologize if I touched you with my words, but I would like to explain why it is necessary to double subsidize the incorporation of alcohol into biofuels. You didn't explain that. You explained the need to mix, but you didn't explain why to subsidize twice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have the Prime Minister's priority right here, and I prefer you, so, Minister Marian Jurečka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u84	Thank you. So alcohol is a biofuels. That's what needs to be realized in the terminology. So we make alcohol from sugar beet or corn or grain. We generally call it bioethanol, and we mix it up. Today, we are in a situation where we are burdening that part of high-percent biofuels with excise duties of CZK 1.80. It is important to note that today the high-percent biofuels have about CZK 2.50 to 3.50 per litre better price than the standard fuels you can buy at the pump. The moment we add the 1.80 CZK there, of course, we are in a situation where many more motorists will change their mind about fueling it. And the assumption is a logical assumption that the demand for biofuels will drop high percent, but no one is able to estimate by how much. Because we just can't define and quantify the price developments clearly. About what Mr Urban said here. It should be noted that in Germany they have a slightly higher mandatory share, which we mix into petrol and diesel, and the assumption that they are going the way that they will probably increase the share every year until 2020 to fill up the 10 percent of renewables in transport from biofuels. Of this is the assumption, at the European Commission's working level, it is said that 70 percent of those 10 are or are to be filled with first-generation biofuels. That's what we're gonna get in the next few months, like, say, a proposal that should be respected like this. It's a work level so far. And we have a discussion in the Czech Republic, which is why I said that this is a matter for the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which sets out the specification of standards for petrol and diesel, and we are waiting for us some time in 2017, as I looked into their legislative plan, into their perspective, to adjust these standards here, where we will be, I suppose, to fulfil the European Union's commitment in 2020, to increase the standard of incorporation of biofuels into petrol and diesel. But that's not the subject of this discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u85	Thank you, Minister. And now I will ask the Minister of the Environment with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u86	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, Chairman TOP 09 said the other day that one of the bonmots, I think, even on billboards in one election, and that was "when they say stupid things, I sleep". Me, when they say crap, I go to the cafeteria and have yogurt. But I've had enough of them today. I have to say, neither of them could fit in me anymore. So I couldn't take it anymore, and I had to do some things, or I have to respond to some things, but I'm gonna be completely emotionless. [[18.20 hours]] From the point of view of the Ministry of Environment, which - and here is interesting... By the way, thank you, I can do that without your middlemanship... It is not up to you, my colleague, to say this through Mr President... [[to the rapporteur, Mr Kalousek]] [[A Member of Kalousek outside the microphone agrees that he can do without medium.]] And I can do it directly, thank you, so we'll figure it out later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u87	I'm afraid you can't. The Rules of Procedure apply to all, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u88	Okay, so even if he agrees, I can't, so that's really conservative. But I would like to thank you, Mr Jurečka - I thought I could thank my colleague from the government directly, but I have to do it this way - that he represented me today. Absolutely. I sometimes do it for my colleagues, but today he represented the Minister of the Environment in the argument. Because the argument of the Ministry of Environment can be based primarily on defending what we are responsible for. What we are responsible for as civil servants. And we are responsible for following the relevant guidelines. In this case, the directive goes to the Ministry of the Environment as a gesturer, which says in what time horizon by 2020 we have to meet certain conditions, virtually. reducing CO2 emissions in this fuel life cycle. And here I am clearly saying - and it has been said here, I will not name, from a whole range of colleagues, what is going on in this Europe. But, folks, it's been going on for many years in Europe. I remember, in 2007-2008... And I was a little hesitant to even perform, because first of all, I have the 002 card, which I really do have, and second of all - and maybe you know, I'm also applying for it - I'm former CEO of Lovochemie. And I dare say I know something about biofuels too. And in 2007-2008, there was already an intense talk in Europe about how the first generation biofuels will be replaced by the next generation. It is 2015 and Europe continues to have a confused head because the conditions simply don't work and the first generation must continue to function. That is, I would just like to say that no matter how much we talk about who is debating, and believe that my officials are not only going to listen to these discussions, but also taking part in them, the discussed section 19 of the amendment to the Air Protection Act in 2013 was asked by the Ministry of Environment to address certain issues in order to minimise tax evasion caused by non-compliance, i.e. by circumventing the obligation to mix a minimum amount of biofuels into fuel. That is why this amendment is also in the context of Section 19, because the Act on Air Protection is very closely linked to those other laws since the validity of the European directives and subsequently the Czech legislation followed it, so there were just inserted new paragraphs, which e.g. They introduce an obligation to mix a certain minimum quantity per calendar quarter, because unfortunately it turned out - and you remember our debate yesterday about waste and metal purchase - that there are a number of handy people who are simply able to do their duty so that they can do something in November or December, then they go bankrupt and, of course, the state, I don't want to say what, but let's say politely that the state will shut down, virtually. The budget will shut down and the Treasury will, of course, be on that line. That is why a number of things have been introduced there. And to that discussed removal - and this is what Mr Kalousek here has spoken about many times and of course some other colleagues. So the Ministry of the Environment has really promoted there, and this is also in its current form, so that the possibility of meeting at least 30% through clean or high-percent fuels and remaining legally preserved there, of course, and this has already fallen, in the end very probably due to notification - the European Commission is promoting zero, that is, zero possibility to mix, respectively. use pure or high-percent biofuels. This means that at this point, I would like to return to the fact that the possible sanctions for failing to comply with the 10% share of renewables, namely biofuels, in this case in fuel or renewables in transport as such, are simply not yet called into question in 2020, ladies and gentlemen. It's not called into question. Despite all the debates that are going on in Europe. And the duty of a civil servant, because the Minister is a high civil servant, is simply to behave according to the legislation that applies in Europe. And colleagues, Minister Kalousek... Exminister Kalousek... My colleague Kalousek, of course, knows very well - and I believe that he would behave very similarly, because no matter what would be discussed in this Europe, he would say: I have a clear European directive here and I have to follow it. Because if he doesn't, it won't be found out until 2020. It may already be found in 2015 or 2016 that we do not meet those progressive targets, which would then significantly flood our sanctions if we did not meet the 10% target in 2020. So, ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss any speculation. We can debate what will happen in that Europe in a year, two or five years. We can argue that a 10% target will ever be questioned. But he exists and we are obliged to fulfill him. And today, even with the mandatory incorporation, we just don't meet the target. Not that we're overcrowding him. We don't do it. And if it really isn't possible to use the high-percent or pure biofuels with that notification, we're not gonna be able to do it with a toupee anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u89	Thank you, Minister. I'm recording two factual points. First President Kalousek, followed by Mr Kučera. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u90	Thank you. Both ministers always say a lot of facts, and some important ones probably forget to say it. I agree with everything the Minister of the Environment has said, but he forgot to tell us that no one is forcing us to give tax relief to clean biofuels at all. On the contrary. The European Union says: we may allow you to do so by the end of 2020. Just this instrument - no one is questioning those objectives - this instrument is definitely not mandatory, rather the other way around. Minister Jurečka basically told us in his speech that there will be no significant increase in consumption with the two aids being dubbed. I am convinced that up to 70 percent, and the calculation in the material we are discussing is consistent with that. Because, colleagues, this material is exhilaratingly described as the increased consumption will increase by 14,000. the number of jobs in the countryside, how many jobs it will bring and what positive impacts it will have on the state budget. You don't want to tell me that even though mandatory consumption doesn't increase, production doesn't increase, but it brings about a new 14,000. jobs. Where, then, are you not telling the truth? When you convince us how positive it is for the state budget, 14,000 jobs will be found there. People, or if you convince us that nothing will ever happen, because no production will increase? I can't do it together. Both arguments cannot be valid. However, they both sound here, which, of course, greatly increases our distrust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u91	I thank you and, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u92	Thank you for your word. Minister Brabec always reliably picks me up from the bench. Every standard European environmental minister should stand in this place and fight against the harmful Babiš biofuels with all the strength. But Minister Brabec does not do so. Apparently, he's having a fight with doktor Jekyll and Mister Hyde. doktor Jekyll, the Minister of the Environment, and Mister Hyde, the former director of a chemical plant producing harmful Babiš biofuels. Who wins in the end? Unlike the novel, I believe it will be doktor Jekyll, who is the Minister of the Environment, who will oppose this law and take the side of conservation of nature and landscape. And I also believe that common sense will prevail for us Members and that we will actually reject this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u93	Thank you. I note another factual remark made by Mr Korte. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry I'm monotonous. I'm going to try to put it quite simply. I keep asking why we need to subsidize, and I get answers on why we need to mix. So I'd like to ask the question I'm asking, why do you need to subsidize the incorporation if the minister answers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I now see no factual comment or preferential right. I shall therefore give the floor duly entered in the debate, and that is Mr Herbert Pavera. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I would just like to respond first to President Faltýnek's words that there is no company in our country that produces second generation biofuels or in Europe. It's not true. There's a company here that makes. It's the company you named. And Europe exists, among other things, in Holland, England, Ireland, Germany and other countries. I can give you the chart later. Now I would like to proceed to what I wanted to do here, and that is to say something about beet oil in connection with biodiesel. You probably know that beetroot is a one-year or two-year-old crop grown for oil seeds. Rape is the largest and oldest crop in the Czech Republic, or one of the most widespread. It has a wide range of uses in the food industry, in the production of oils or in cosmetics. In Bohemia, its cultivation took place mainly between 1820 and 1839. But with the development of the application of the gas and the use of kerosene for lighting and mineral oils to lubricate machines, the importance of rape gradually declined. Growth in sugar beet cultivation and imports of raw materials from the colonies also pushed rape into the background. After the establishment of the Czechoslovak Republic, the decline in oil production, including rape, continued. Practically rape growing is over. This is illustrated in detail in the 1930s, when rape was grown on the territory of Czechoslovakia on just 1 073 hectares. During the existence of the Czechoslovak Republic, research on cultivation technology and partly rape breeding began to develop. For example, during the occupation of Czechoslovakia in the territory of the Protectorate, rape was grown already in 1944 on an area of nearly 38,000 hectares. My colleague here has already said that the Czech Republic is one of the largest rape growers in Europe in terms of the share of agricultural land. Seventeen percent of agricultural land. Mr. Faltýnek here said about how many hectares of rape was grown in our country last year. It's a little over 389,000 acres. It also fell here that rape is a crop of biomass, but it is a very demanding crop for nutrients and spray. It creates a lot of biomass and therefore extremely exhausts the soil and it needs to be fertilized intensively. In the areas of rape cultivation, there is a high risk of nitrate contamination of groundwater and surface waters. Rape should also be treated intensively against pests. Originally used pesticides based on chemicals of neonicotinoides are suspected of devastating influence on bees and bumble bees and other important pollinators. As you know, they are now banned for two years to confirm or disprove their toxicity. Instead, however, older, less selective pesticides are used, which unfortunately poison a larger spectrum of animal species. The lack of pollinators is one of the world's greatest risks to food safety. Rape is also desiccated, sprayed with defoliant to dry in the summer before the harvest. Other dangerous pesticides are used for this. For the protection of weed rape, the pesticide Roundup is used - the active substance glyphosate, which kills all single-scale plants. Glyphosate is also suspected of many negative effects on warm-blooded animals, including humans, of course. In the Czech Republic, a third of the consumption of this substance is used for rape, although it is grown only at 17 percent of the area. Thus, beet fields are burdened more than twice as much as other crops. The substances contained in rape sprays are behind the mass mortality of hives and small animals, but they are also able to disrupt the development of the fetus in animals, such as foals in the body of mares, for example on the A quite show! == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man MUDr. Miroslav Šuta from the Centre for Environment and Health. Moreover, scientific studies have confirmed that these substances have similar effects on humans. For example, according to a California study, the pesticide chlorpyrifos causes changes in some parts of the brain. Children who are exposed to the substance have problems with memory and intelligence, and more often suffer from autism. Thus, if pregnant women come into contact with this substance, even if only in small amounts, it can lead to irreversible changes in the brain structure of an unborn child. This pesticide is one of the most commonly used in the world. In the Czech Republic alone, it is used annually about 140 thousand kilograms. Much of it will end up on yellow ropes with rape. Rape also contains glucosinolates, which together with high nitrogen content in rape leaves cause the death of thousands of deer game pieces. And perhaps for entertainment, rape along with corn is one of the possible causes of the expansion of wild boars. The beet fields provide wild boars with abundant food - oil pods - and a peaceful and undisturbed refuge. After the rape harvest in July, wild boars move to corn, where they feed until autumn. And as you know, wild boars destroy other species of animals, especially birds nesting on the ground. Blooming rape is also a danger to a number of allergens. And why, despite all these reasons, has there been a huge increase in rape cultivation in recent years? Simply put, for the large profits of both growers and biodiesel producers. If the yield from one hectare was around 12 tonnes of rape 12 years ago, then 2014 brought record rape harvest in the form of nearly four tonnes per hectare, which is almost 47 percent higher than the 10-year average. [[misread, printed material says "around two tonnes"]] The yield per hectare increased by 14.2 percent compared to 2013. It is hard to wonder, then, that farmers prefer this crop to traditional crops. The smaller part of rape grown ends up in the food or other industry, the larger part is used for the production of biodiesel. I think that through the Vice-President... Mr. Faltýnek, you made a bad mistake on TV today when you said only 500,000 tons. It's a million tons that's being used for rape. You must have made a mistake. It is strange that the Czech Republic is still increasing the total quantity of rape produced and has been talking about reducing rape production in the EU for several years. It is strange that the Czech Republic is increasing the share of biodiesel from rape in diesel, and the opposite is considered in the EU. Moreover, the European Union will monitor more closely the way the fuel reduces carbon dioxide emissions when determining the mandatory shares of biofuels. It established that biofuels of the first generation, such as rape oil, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 35 or 45 percent. However, it is well known that only fuels will be allowed in the European Union from 2017 onwards, which will reduce emissions by at least 50 per cent. Since 2018, it has been 60 percent more. This opens up space for the second generation of biofuels. For example, it is hay, straw, but also waste. In the Czech Republic, second generation biodiesel is already produced thanks to the skills of Czech scientists. However, it is fully exported abroad. It's all about giving this biodiesel space to us. Waste fat biodiesel reduces carbon dioxide emissions by more than 80 percent. [[Noise in the hall.]] Today, the European Commission is reconsidering the decision of the Green Revolution. She found that a well - meaning idea was a huge business. According to Science magazine, if we were to feed and forest the areas on which rape is now grown, we would achieve much greater greenhouse gas savings than in the cultivation of rape for biofuels, explains the current position of the EU on the cultivation of rape by Professor Sklenička. [[18.40 hours]] And so I ask the author of the amendment of the law of Minister Marian Jurečka, why the Czech Republic no longer responds more flexibly to information from the EU and does not begin to use, for example, second-generation biofuels, which are produced, for example, from rendering waste, fats. I'll answer it myself. Because it suits the lobby, one of which sits right in the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm recording three factual points. First Minister Jurečka, after him President Faltýnek and then Mr Korte. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u98	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you if you come here to give quite a lot of professional advice, and someone will write you a speech or we'll download it from Wikipedia somewhere, give it to someone who really knows how to do it, so you don't fall apart. I'm a plant doctor, I graduated from high school and college. And if you use, for example, winter Roundup rape treatment with the active substance of glyphosate, not only will you destroy all single and double-crop plants, but you will also destroy the rape itself. [[Let's hear it for some Members.]] If you're talking about all the other pesticide treatments, whether insecticides, fungicides and herbicides, rape doesn't have any higher demands than when I put it in comparison with the cultivation of spring barley. The number of fungicide interventions for spring malting barley will need to be even higher than for rape. When we talk about the insecticides, it means the active substances that you've named here, like chlorpyrifos and so on, it needs to be realized that these are substances that have some development and are more or less far from here in the future, or even today in practice active substances and sprays that are completely harmless to bees. The agricultural public is beginning to use them much more, and if what you read here is true, the Ministry of Health could never allow the use of Nurelle D with the active substance chlorpyrifos if there were such serious concerns about the damage to the health of citizens of the Czech Republic. Products such as Mavrik are used, and so on, based on citric acid, which will not endanger the health of bees at all. [[unintelligible]] With regard to this problem of contamination in rape cultivation, for example, by consuming high amounts of fertilizer, I can calm you down: nitrogen doses in rape cultivation today are in practice the same as those for winter wheat or maize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u99	I'm sorry, Minister, but your two minutes are up. If so, apply again to the debate. Thank you, Minister. Now, therefore, with a factual remark, President Faltýnek and Mr Korte will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I would only, with your permission, respond to my colleague Pavera, who asked me some questions. First of all, I'd repeat the numbers again so there's no mistake. In 2014, 1,537 320 tonnes of oilseed rape seed were harvested in the Czech Republic on an area of 389 298 ha. Of this was used for the production of rape for the methyl ester of rape oil, sorry, for this methyl ester of rape oil, 554 153 tonnes. So it's a third of the total volume that was harvested in the Czech Republic. As far as second-generation biofuels producers in the Netherlands and Finland are concerned, they are so-called producers. HVO, it is a hydrogenated oil which has not yet been recognised by the European Union as a second generation biofuels. It is made from used oils or fats as well as in the company in Bohemia. And if you take it we're talking about a total volume of 300 thousand needs. tonnes of MERO and 120 thousand. tonnes of biodiesel into petrol, so the consumption that is collected in the Czech Republic, those consumed fats or oils are in the order of tens or thousands of tonnes. I was talking here in my speech about 3,000 tonnes, which could be used for the production of so-called. Second generation biofuels at Oleochemical. But that means that we would have to import the oil used from abroad and become basically Europe's wasteland. So I personally think this isn't the way. Surely there is simply a journey in other potentially researchable second-generation biofuels, which was also mentioned by Prime Minister Bělobrádek, that we may have underestimated the research.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u101	I am sorry, Mr President, but you have also run out of time for a point of fact. Thank you. Now, then, Mr Korte and then Mr Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm very sorry that I'm monothematic, but I still haven't heard the answer to my question. I have no doubt that it is necessary to mix biolic acid into oil etc., but I have not heard the answer why there must be a dead path, i.e. biolic acid, first or so called. the first generation, why we need to prolong its subsidisation. I'd like someone competent to explain it to me. It's not that we have to. I'm asking why we have to subsidize it. Is the question clear and clear?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, President Kalousek, with a factual remark, and after that, President Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u104	Thank you. I want to thank you more as Chairman of TOP 09 than as rapporteur, Minister Jurečka, through Mr President, for the touching care of the training of members of our club. It sounds extraordinarily juicy from a person who is not sure whether he was serious or not. So I'm going to reward myself with the question: the reminder still stands. But I admit, you no longer consider it essential. But it lists very competently the negative effects of rape cultivation on the landscape and the environment. That reminder you signed and never downloaded, you just stopped considering it essential, you started to say that you're okay with it, the comment in your expert formulation is valid, or isn't it? Because it's a serious matter. It may not be important to you anymore, but it is to us. For me, for my colleague Pavera, for my colleague Kučera and for many of us, the expert opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, to what extent the cultivation of this crop is harmful to the landscape and the environment, is quite essential information. And that's the information of your ministry, signed by you, you just stopped considering it essential. That's all that happened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u105	Thank you. Now, therefore, President Stanjura and then President Kučera. It's all factual remarks. In order, as you volunteered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u106	There's a pretty good political trick that distracts and details are interesting, but not substantial. Although President Faltýnek said the important sentence, we all have new dilemmas that I have not seen until today. Now maybe I'll paraphrase him, not quote him exactly. Either we support Agrofert's business, or we need to step out of the European Union. I have to say, I haven't thought of such a dilemma until today, and it's quite serious. And I wonder if he really means it, or if he's making fun of us with his "I'm sorry." I've spent my whole life in agriculture, and I don't want to say that I understand. I'm sorry. And now he's timing us, I'd say, with personal attacks. But do we really have a dilemma as the Chamber of Deputies - either we support this business of Agrofert or we get out of the EU? There's nothing in between? I think there are a lot of other options in between that we can. After all, everyone has to admit that if Europe hadn't invented support for biofuels, I wouldn't have said that, I say Europe, I admit it wasn't Agrofert, I wouldn't have said that. Europe made it up, I've already talked about it once before, that it's generally distorted the market. But making it up meant it was more tempting to grow. And without this artificial support, invented primarily by green and left-wing policies, there would simply be less rape. That's what I think is true. It's logical. If someone's got a sale, why wouldn't they? Because he's not... Everyone who does business and knows it is not so difficult to make something. It's complicated to sell. And have a sale. And this is where we decide the business for President Faltýnek's company, where he is a member of the board. And if we don't approve, he says we have to get out of the EU. [[18.50 hours]] I don't think so. If we don't approve, nothing will happen. Many Members, including the government, have said: they will continue to mix, whether we approve or not. I wonder what the Czech Republic will need. Seven, six or five percent? And I'd like that percentage of excise duty from Minister Jurečka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u107	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u108	Thank you for the floor. As I listen to President Faltýnek, I am just waiting for him to come up with the fact that rape oil is an important Czech medicine that has beneficial effects on our health and on our skin. But I'd like to say a few numbers. We're throwing these numbers on one side or the other, so I'm going to try to subtract doktor Jekyll and Mister Hyd, the Minister of the Environment, and a few numbers from the ecological side of biofuels production. The European Union has decided to limit the share of biofuels whose production requires a holding of agricultural land, and that is the fact. The European Commission wants to reduce its share to between five and six percent. We currently have seven percent, so the law goes directly against this effort by the European Union. The energy consumption in the production of Babiš biofuels is 11 to 27 percent higher than that obtained from biofuels. When biofuels are produced, about 50 to 70 percent more greenhouse gases are produced than pure petrol or diesel. But, of course, we all know that, which I don't think I need to mention. Moreover, we need to realise that nitrogen oxides have 300 times the greenhouse effect of CO2. So so many numbers to add to the numbers of Chairman Faltýnek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u109	I thank you and we will now proceed to a proper debate. Another envoy is Mr Karel Fiedler and Mr Kučera will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u110	Thank you for the floor. Given the really tasty debate we've had so far, I'm going to cut back on my contribution, the notes I have here. Let's get somewhere else in this assessment again, I'll only mention two paragraphs. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] According to automotive information, biofuels reduce engine life by about 70 percent, engines rusty because biofuels are hygroscopic. This means that oil and filter exchanges for biofuels-using engines must be about three times more frequent. Biofuels also increase consumption by about eight percent, in other words, they have to be refueled more often and less kilometers to the full tank. There are several billion crowns per year in the pockets of the mixers. I am, of course, aware that the mixed percentage is set by the European Union, but as previous speaker Kučera said earlier today, we are beyond what the European Union is considering. The European Union has spoken several times today, considering that we will not end up at 10 per cent, but that the percentage should be reduced.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u111	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but the level of noise in the room is really high. I'm going to ask you, colleagues, if you really need to deal with something, go to the lobby so we can hear the debaters. Thank you for respecting that. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u112	Thank you. There have also been a few questions that, as tradition, unfortunately by tradition, we are waiting for answers in vain. It is an alleged increase in employment. The explanatory memorandum in the amendment mentions the increase in employment and the associated higher contributions to the Treasury. Without any precise and concrete justification, the explanatory memorandum states that about 14,000 new jobs should be created and that should bring about 15 billion to the national register. Where did these numbers come from? I'm asking the shadow translator. The answer, I'll believe we'll see it. I would support many times already repeated questions by Mr Korte. I'll do it again, maybe it'll help. We've heard the explanation here several times that it has to be mixed. I think we all get it, but no one's answered why we have to subsidize it yet. I'm looking at the Minister significantly. Why do we have to subsidize it if Germany doesn't have to subsidize it? We'd like an explanation on the microphone. If it doesn't have to be subsidized by Germany, if it doesn't have to be subsidized by other countries, why it has to be subsidized by us. Let me remind you again that we may want to go the way not of Croatia, but I personally want to go to Germany, where I believe that in Germany they have thought about this and set an example for us in many areas of technology, economy and social affairs. I'm not a germanofil, but I'm really interrogating myself to definitely look in this thing in the west direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask for Mr Kučera's contribution to the debate. I'm just pointing out that we're negotiating until 7:00 today, so we've got some four minutes of negotiations ahead of us. So I'm going to ask you to respect the time we have measured. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u114	Thank you for the floor. To tell you the truth, I didn't even expect my turn today. I have tried to substitute a little bit in my previous performances, although I don't like, really hate, the role of the Minister of the Environment and contribute a little bit to the perspective that should protect our landscape and nature, even though I think the Minister of the Environment should have done it. But maybe the role will take place in the sequel -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u115	Colleagues and colleagues, I ask you repeatedly to remain calm! Although I understand that the end of the day is coming, I would ask you to respect the lecturer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u116	A lot has been said here. I would more or less try to zoom in on what is a fundamental problem from the point of view of the protection of landscape and nature. It's in so-called. biofuels of the first generation, i.e. those produced today in the factories of Andrej Babiš. It is the methyl ester of rape oil, so-called The sea. Its dominant producer and supplier to the state enterprise ČEPRO, which is run by Andrej Babiš today, is Preol, also from Babiš's Agrofert, to make sure it is not wrong. Biofuels made from oilseed rape in the world end, and that's just a fact. The massive and extensive production of oilseed rape does not only affect us allergies, but especially the agricultural soil fund and the environment. The European Commission has been supporting first generation fuels, i.e. the ones we are talking about today are abandoned for these very reasons, unlike the Czech Republic. I would like to say, it has already been mentioned, it is strange also the behavior of the Minister of Agriculture. We know from the legislative process that the Ministry of Agriculture has made a fundamental comment against this proposal, it has already been said several times. I would just like to quote that conclusion once again, so that we all realize this: "In these circumstances, all proposals for monitoring biofuels or proposals for their higher use or stricter monitoring are outside existing and future trends. This makes no sense to revise the laws based on the original plan to support biofuels in the European Union.' I would very much like to know what had to happen and what had to be done, so that the Jurečka of Agriculture changed his mind and changed his comment from a fundamental to a recommendation. I think there was a deal going on, as Minister Babiš likes to say. [[18.50 hours]] This amendment to the law is very much affecting the regulation of biofuels. So why is it not aligned with European legislation? That's another question that was raised here today that we didn't get an answer to. Why does it not respond to negative experiences with biofuels in the world and in Europe? No answer again. Why is MERO the only possible green oil despite all the negatives produced by Babiš produced by methyls and old rape oils? Next question and another without an answer. What role does the amendment to the Act on Air play here? I would quote here a multi-annual programme of support for biofuels for 2015 and 2020, which has been approved by the government and where it is written - I quote: According to Act No. 201 Sb., on air protection, diesel petrol and diesel put into free tax circulation in the tax territory of the Czech Republic for transport purposes for a calendar year must also contain a minimum quantity of certified biofuels of 4,1% of the total quantity of diesel petrol and 6 percent of the total quantity of diesel. This obligation may continue to be fulfilled by indicating clean biofuels or composite fuels complying with Decree No 133/2010, on the quality and registration of fuels for free tax circulation. It is in the proposal approved by this government on 6 August 2014. I would say that this is quite a fundamental contradiction to this amendment. The increased demand for agricultural land for the cultivation of biofuels even causes an increase in greenhouse gas emissions, which we have already discussed here, especially because of the so-called. indirect emissions. Due to already deformed subsidy policy, demand for biofuels in Europe has increased considerably, and thus global raw material production for their production. Abroad, for example, it is the production of controversial palm or soya oil. We have a different problem, with us, the problem is called oil rape. What is the result of the cultivation of biofuels crops? It leads to the destruction of a valuable ecosystem, increase in greenhouse gas production and, last but not least, secondary to an increase in food prices. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] It must be said that Andrej Babiš contributed -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u117	Mr. Ambassador, I want to ask you - it's 19.01. Two minutes? So at 19.03, then I'll interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u118	It must be said that Andrej Babiš, with the help of Minister Jurečka, is not only engaged in a raid on taxpayers' wallets, from which he wants to raise more money for himself and for his businesses. Andrej Babiš decided to continue destroying our environment. Andrej Babiš will continue to pollute our landscape and our atmosphere, as I mentioned earlier. I believe that my role will be taken next time by the Minister of Environment Brabec and will fight here for environmental protection, and not for Czech production of oilseed rape, by the way, from Agrofert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-010-025.u119	I thank you and interrupt this point. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you the rest of the day.
