ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-001-211.u1	211. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations And now I'm going to say why I said "let's get started." Due to the excuses of individual ministers, because both Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka are excused by 11.30, it is not possible to initiate these interpelations because they are absent. Given that we have proposed interruptions to individual interventions for the absence of those ministers from the previous meeting, I ask whether the interpelling Members insist on the presence of the Interpelled Minister. I insist on it, it's an interpellation to Andrej Babiš, who's like the second. Stanjura's wife insists on it. Miroslav Grebeníček - does he insist on the presence of the Prime Minister? Karel Fiedler insists on being here as Prime Minister. And Zbyněk Stanjura insists on the presence of both Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Minister of Agriculture. In that case, I ask if I will interrupt the meeting by 11 o'clock, which is one of the options, or if one of the interpelling Members wants to speak. Then I'd have to cut off the interpelations one by one. I'll call the club president or their deputy first. Please. I'm asking the club president first. [[A brief meeting with the President.]] After consulting the club presidents, respectively. their representatives, interrupting an interview with the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government of Andrej Babiš, which Zbyněk Stanjura is intersecting. I am interrupting the same interview with the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, who is asked by me because I want him to be present. Initiating interpelation number 3 on Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and speaking Mr Miroslav Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-001-211.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a case for the Republic and its citizens, the fatally disadvantageous privatisation of the Ostrava-Carvin mines and their housing fund, I have turned logically directly to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, because, above all, he himself and then the government as a whole could still today, and they should even take the necessary steps to remedy and overcome what is so hard and long-term affecting the economic entire Moravian-Silesian region. Yes, we are talking about tunning the state business property and housing fund of the former Ostrava-Carvinsky mines in favour of the distinctive entrepreneur Zdeněk Bakala and his associates. We are also talking about why tens of billions of crowns have flown away, privatizers in the monopoly position of miners and owners of tens of thousands of mining flats have fled to tax havens, and why the state must now contribute hundreds of millions to the decline of mining, to support unemployed miners, and to pay them profit in the form of housing contributions, to expensive rents in so-called. Bachelor flats. [[9.10 hours]] Prime Minister Sobotka is still the subject of criticism because of the allegedly disadvantageous sale of OKD. He has long rejected the complaint and insists that the State has sold the shares at market price. Thus, in a letter from the Minister of Finance, the Association of Tenants of OKD recently asked Andrej Babiš to submit a complaint to the court to block the portfolio of approximately 44,000 former OKD mining companies. They say it's a return on crime. The chairman of the association Roman Macháček in the document asks that Minister Babiš turn to the District Court for Prague 2. Since October of this year, the Senate has been prosecuting three men accused of botched privatization of OKD from 2004 and the fact that the state has come to sell its almost half share of the mining company by almost 7 billion. Kč. The Ministry claims damages in court from the defendant experts Rudolf Douch and a couple of former managers of the National Property Fund to Pavel Kuta and Jan Škurek. The tenants' association fears that people living in former OKD apartments will never be able to buy the property, even though in the past the new owners of Ostrava-Karvinsky mines, led by billionaire Zdeněk Bakala, promised it to them. The head of the association Macháček is convinced that the court can proceed to prevent the matter, i.e. to secure these apartments, even though they are already owned by a different owner than the one who bought them from the state, and that they do not belong to any of the three defendants. It was not so long ago, and I want to dampen the optimism of the group mentioned, which Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán replied when discussing the written interpellation of Mr Vojtěch Filip on the privatisation of the state enterprise Mototechn České Budějovice in the following way: "I identify with the Member that this is one of the cases where the authorities involved in criminal proceedings were not worthy of their name and it was rather the institutions who were inactive in criminal proceedings and simply failed." Then the Minister of Justice said: "It bothers me that today many of our honourable citizens are proudly walking around with property acquired by clear criminal activity, but at the same time I am convinced that we will not do anything about it today. " It is a bit shocking, especially when - and I want to mention this too - it is really worth it - Minister Pelikán added: "At the same district prosecutors who were sitting there in the 1990s are still sitting in those district prosecutors. And if you think they want to examine them better today than they wanted to investigate them then, then they don't want to." No wonder there was a lot of noise in the House after these statements. But now I'm going back to the Prime Minister's interview. The nationwide leader and leader of social democracy in South Moravia Bohuslav Sobotka received the following reader's inquiry on the website of the Brno daily on 24 October 2013: "In order to purchase your own apartment, you said that you used the parliamentary compensation intended for completely different purposes. However, 45,000 state flats OKD you have passed at a ridiculous estimated price of 40 thousand. CZK per piece to Mr. Bakal. And now, as a lawyer, you're saying that you trusted Mr. Bakal to sell the apartments to the tenants at the same price. He set up market rents and recommended that tenants demand housing contributions from the state. And the market price of these flats is 600 to 850 thousand crowns apiece. Don't you feel incompetent and disqualified for the Prime Minister's office?" That was a quote. I'm just suggesting how far this can go. Prime Minister Sobotka's reply takes the following form: "The apartments were inserted into the OKD prior to his privatization by Minister Vladimír Dlouhý of the Civil Democratic Alliance. Then there was a wild privatization of OKD, where the state lost the majority. Only then came the governments of the Czech Social Democratic Party. And it was our government that set in the privatisation agreement for the first time ever some tenant rights in OKD apartments. Now the state must force them on the owners. And by the way, the only money worth OKD ever saw was 4 billion. for the sale of a minority stake. Under the rule of the right, the state lost 54 percent of its shares and did not receive a crown." What can I say? Perhaps it is only that the many-year story of the former OKD flats that Bakala, a billionaire, received from the state, is still shrouded in dense fog, and has even continued to sell them to a foreign investment company. Prime Minister Sobotka talks about immoral conduct and violations of promises by Zdeněk Bakala. But shouting about immorality and not fulfilling promises is an embarrassing or weak argument from a lawyer. No, I don't know the content of the respective privatisation agreement, but rather than the moral aspect of the behavior which Zdeněk Bakala's wounded man will certainly not be sad, because for him and his similar figures are the only morals of the money being taken, Prime Minister Sobotka should give information about how the contract was designed and what legal institutes were, or rather, not enshrined in it. Then the Prime Minister would not have to shed tears over spilled privatization milk, but he could have consistently acted in a court of law on the basis of specific provisions of the contract, thus protecting the tenants of apartments who are placed in the role of ordinary hostages in the situation. [[9.20 hours]] If the contract were to treat all the aspects that have been mentioned for years, the problem around Bakalův's activities would have been resolved long ago and we would not have to read the following statements in the paper: We consider pan Sobotka to be responsible for the privatization transaction of OKD, when the state lost tens of billions, the buyer obtained property almost for free and tens of thousands of tenants of mining flats were cheated. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you all know that the case of controversial privatization of the 2004 mining giant OKD has recently begun to unravel the court in Prague 2. We spoke not only about the defendants Rudolf Douch, Pavel Kuta and Jan Škurek, but also about other non-negligible figures of the aforementioned privatisation. I am thinking, for example, of the minister or ex-minister Milan Urban and the current Prime Minister Sobotka. I can't agree with the Prime Minister's lack of response to my written interview. I want to believe that in a competent court, whatever position it may be, it will be more shared. Whereas The Ministry of Finance has turned to the Prague 2 District Court on the failed privatisation of OKD, and I do not consider it necessary for us to continue discussing this case in the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-001-211.u3	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk. Who's next in the debate? If no one, I see Mr Grebeníček's proposal in such a way that he does not insist on further discussion, which is different from the other interpelees. I would remind you that in the previous negotiations on these interventions, we interrupted the presence of each of the various interpelled ministers, or the Prime Minister, respectively. So we can't even... We can therefore change the decision today, so we do not insist, we can discuss it, but if the interpelees insist on the presence of the minister, the original resolution applies. That is why I did not vote to interrupt the first and second interpelations, because the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies is valid. So that's why I went this way. Mrs Hnyková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-001-211.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, on behalf of the Dawn MEP, to ask the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies to make a better deal next time with the ministers, with the Prime Minister, whether they will be here for a written interview. Then the organization could change. We could've placed points that were important, and we didn't have to sit here till the evening. Please, Mr President, take care of this for the other members of the House's leadership and make this right. We're up here, we're here, and they're not here. So I think it's kind of bad, and we could have done some other work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-001-211.u5	I agree with you, Madame. I did not bring you to the point because we are discussing an interpelling of Mr Grebeníček to the Prime Minister, but I will answer that because, at the meeting with the presidents or representatives of the club presidents, Vice-President Jan Bartošek said he would take it to the Coalition Council. So think of it as a statement from the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies who put it that way. Does your colleague still want Kučera? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-001-211.u6	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to supplement Mrs. Hnyková. I would really like to call on you, Mr President, to ask the Ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic, in agreement with the President of the House, to participate in the consultations, not to reach an agreement with them. We really should transform it into a request from the House of the Czech Republic to allow ministers to participate in the interventions as they should be. They're just not here, and it's really disrupting the House's operation. We're always talking about what obstructions are here in quotation marks, what is one hour, what is half an hour, and where are the ministers for YES? Where are they? When their club president here is constantly calculating how much it costs one hour for the Chamber of Deputies. They're not here. So please, let's all measure the same. And I would ask you, Mr President, that, together with the President of the House, you invite the Ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic to take part in the meetings at the meetings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-001-211.u7	I understand. We are still in parliamentary democracy, when the government is responsible to Parliament, not the other way around. But I take the promise of Vice-President Bartošek as the first step towards redress. I understand that some of these things aren't enough for you. My colleague Grebeníček suggested that he did not insist on further discussion of his observations. It will probably be accompanied by the Prime Minister's written observations. We will return to interpelling Mr. Fiedler to Prime Minister Sobotka to the State Security Council. Does he insist on interrupting to the present? Yes, it does, so the resolution is valid. Likewise, with the restitution of church property, his appreciation, he insists on the present. And Mr. Stanjura also insisted on interrupting the present... It's different there, I'll just check if it was interrupted last time for the absence of Minister Jurečka. So in this regard, since Minister Jurečka was here last time, this interpellation will fail. I shall adjourn the Chamber of Deputies. I don't want to get caught up in... [[There's an MP named Mark Benda at the fairground.]] I understand my colleague Marek Benda, but I draw attention to the complexity of the Rules of Procedure, and I would not like to change the resolution previously made with Mr Jurečka. In this respect, the easiest way to end is by interrupting negotiations by 11 o'clock, and there is a resolution on the interruption of individual points other than interpelling Miroslav Grebeníček to the Prime Minister, and we are staying with those interventions as interrupted by their resolution, okay? Now, I expect you to meet me at 11 o'clock, and we'll continue with the individual items of the program. Before you leave the O.R., I'll read the apologies. Minister Jurečka apologises within 12 hours, Vice-President Jermanová within 11 hours, Mr Chalupa within 12 hours, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský until 10.30 and Mrs Radka Maxová between 14.30 and the end of the working day, between 9 and 11 p.m. Mrs Lorencová and Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková from 9 to the end of the sitting day. Good morning, meet me at 11:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-001-211.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that for eleven o'clock, we have points 213, 216, 14, 15 and 16. Then we would possibly focus on unnegotiated points in the report block, suggestions and more. The meeting apologizes for Mrs Němcová, Mr Havíř for work reasons, Mr Kasal for work reasons and Mrs Adamová between 9 and 11 for personal reasons. So many apologies. Opening point
