ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u1	51. Government draft atomic law / House print 560/ - first reading The Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will present the proposal here and under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is submitting a proposal for an atomic law to you to discuss. The main purpose of the proposal is to replace the existing Act No. 18/1997 Coll., on the peaceful use of nuclear energy and ionising radiation, or nuclear law. This comprehensive legislation has become effective 1. 7. 1997 and, at its time, it was a modern regulation fully compliant with the protection of the public interest in that area. At present, however, it no longer meets the formal or content requirements of the modern legislative regulation instrument and, in some respects, it is both factually and technically outdated, with further major changes to the legislation being implemented on the ground plan of the existing law being very difficult. In particular, it is necessary to bring the legal provisions into line with the gradual fundamental content changes in the legal order of the Czech Republic, which were unable to comply with the ongoing amendment, for example in the field of crisis management and integrated rescue systems, administrative management, offences and administrative offences, etc. Furthermore, the submitted legislation includes experience with the implementation of the European Union and Euratom regulations and recommendations of the International Nuclear Energy Agency. Last but not least, the Czech Republic is also bound by political commitments to implement the recommendations of international organisations active in the field of nuclear safety, in particular the International Atomic Energy Agency, which implements the proposed legislation. The adjustment will lead to a better way of comparing the situation in individual countries and, in particular, easier harmonisation and easier shaping of common recommendations to increase the level of safety achieved. Therefore, specific requirements would help to clarify and clarify the procedures for granting and implementing authorisations and, in a broader sense, the performance of individual regulated activities. There is a similar situation in the fields of medical or other applications using nuclear energy, respectively. ionizing radiation. A more detailed description and justification of the proposed legislation is given in the explanatory memorandum. The draft atomic law has undergone extensive inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and, in accordance with the legislative work plan for 2014, no assessment of the impact of regulation has been prepared on the proposal according to the guidelines for evaluation of the impact of RIA regulation. The impact assessment is carried out in general only within the general part of the explanatory memorandum. I would like to point out that the draft law was gradually adapted according to the results of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, according to the results of the detailed discussion in the Legislative Council of the Government, where every point of this extensive material was discussed in detail. The Government has discussed the draft atomic law on 13 July 2015 and has approved it as submitted to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u3	I thank the Minister and now the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Milan Urban. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, the Czech state energy concept envisages a future increase in the share of modern nuclear energy, so it is certainly appropriate that we also have an adequate modern law. For this reason, I therefore recommend that we provide this amendment for discussion to the Economic Committee and, of course, I recommend it for approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his words. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Martin Lank was the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I'm glad I got the floor. I didn't count on it much today. But at least I'll try to be brief so I don't delay you too much. I would like to open a topic in the debate on the atomic law that not only burns the people of the Highlands, but basically all of them. It is a problem at the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant, which is also the largest employer in Třebíčsko. For me, at least personally, it is a very alarming conversation that has been given to the President of the Nuclear Safety Office's Economic Newspaper and where it discusses security in detail at the Dukovan Nuclear Power Plant. According to CEZ, only a money machine that works perfectly, more or less, for 30 years, is seen in the Dukovan power plant. CEZ is said to place too much emphasis on efficiency and money making and little on the state of the power plant. The lifetime period of Dukovan is primarily limited by whether CEZ intends to continue to invest funds in operation or not. If something special doesn't happen, it can be assumed that the Dukovan reactors should work until 2035 to 2040. In this context, it is really alarming that control images have been falsified. And there's more. I don't want to keep you here, I'm sure you all know that, or you can look it up pretty easily. In any case, I would therefore like to hear the opinion of the Minister of Industry and Trade on these findings. And also, if the D.O.D. takes any action. I also wonder who will be responsible for this. Last but not least, I would like to ask precisely in connection with this present law, if we, I assume that the approved law responds to these facts, or if there is still time to consider any adjustments to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u7	Thank you, Mr Lank. Another duly registered member is Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Atomic law is a very comprehensive document that includes a whole range of international and national treaties, a whole range of international and national documents and, of course, its need has already been mentioned here by both the Minister and the rapporteur. At this point, I don't want to comment on this whole document. I would like to poke out one thing, which, I think, is equally important in the atomic law, and I would very much hate for it to fit in, on the contrary, by doing this, I want to undermine it, and that is the question of deep storage. Deep storage of nuclear waste. I would like to say a few words here about the lack of the possibility of municipalities in the process of selecting deep storage. We can all imagine that the location of the deep storage will basically have a lasting impact on the selected location. The process of selecting the location for the location is thus non-standard and
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u9	I'm sorry, colleague. I ask the House for peace, and I ask you to continue when the House calms down. Thank you. [[Noise persists.]] So if the House does not calm down, then we will name specific and well-known jammers. [[A note off the microphone.]] Oh, well, I'm the interrupter, 'cause I turned you off, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u10	Now I can talk. The process of selecting the location for the location is thus a non-standard and unique long-term process in which there is an interest in the maximum possible involvement of municipalities. It can therefore be considered as a deficiency if the position of municipalities in the process of selecting the site of storage does not exceed the standard authorisation framework resulting from administrative management and other processes. I would like to say that the problem appears, in particular, to the fact that the legislation does not provide for a requirement from the municipalities concerned at a certain stage in the selection process of an appropriate location to agree with the intention of placing a repository in a given location, the granting of which would be a condition for initiating a further phase of management leading to the location of the repository. I think that every mayor of the village will agree with me that it is absolutely essential. This conclusion was reached after several years of work, analysis of the Czech rule of law and foreign experience, by the Working Group on Storages established by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I would like to say that the extension of the powers of municipalities is also in line with the requirements of Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom, which, inter alia, obliges Member States to ensure that the public has the necessary opportunity, in accordance with national law and international obligations, to participate effectively in the decision-making process concerning the management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste. However, the proposal also leaves sufficient space for the state to enforce the repository in case there is no other solution. The strengthening of the role of municipalities should take place for the first time at a stage in which the two most appropriate sites will be evaluated on the basis of the geological surveys carried out, i.e. from the original six sites still under consideration to two, that is, in the phase prior to the initiation of the procedure for establishing a protected area for special interventions in the earth's crust. In view of the fact that this is a long-term process where, in the meantime, research and technological development may lead to a shift in the view of the issue of radioactive waste management, there should be repeated involvement of municipalities in the next more advanced phase of locality selection, which is at the stage of management and authorisation of mining activities for special interventions in the earth's crust. I would like to say that these facts that I have mentioned here are absolutely fundamental, and I believe that we will have sufficient scope to discuss them in the committees. Of course, it is clear to me that the guarantee committee for this bill is an economic committee. Given the fact that we are also talking about deep-sea storage sites, about interference with the landscape, into the environment, I would be very pleased if this press were also assigned to the Committee on the Environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u11	I thank Mr Kučer. Another duly registered member is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate one thing with which I have been speaking for about the third time this week. Probably tomorrow or Sunday will be the end of that climate conference in Paris. I wouldn't talk about it that often if - and this morning on television, the director of the Department of Energy of the Ministry of the Environment confirmed it - if our republic were not one of the most ambitious countries in terms of setting commitments that should be accepted in the protocol of this conference for another very long period. The commitments are such that by 2100 we should reduce greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. CO2, by one hundred percent in terms of 1990. Basically, it's the disposal of fossil-based energy, burning. Similarly, the increase in temperature, which is monitored by the climate lobby, should be two percent over the century, or below two percent. Again another huge, ambitious commitment. And all the more important, I think, is to make sure that if, unfortunately, we commit and limit our competitiveness in the field of energy, so that we can be sure that we will have very well stabilized and legally anchored opportunities to obtain energy from the core. And here I think that maybe this law could be a good way to do it, so that the core is simply perceived as the carbon-free technology, the one that's not reprehensible, the one that belongs to that not emission spectrum next to renewables, next to solar, next to wind, and I don't know what other renewable power plants that actually cost us hard billions. As for what my colleague Kučera said, I therefore join in making the municipalities more affected by the location in which the repository will be planned. The very fact that the repository is planned to be discussed in a village is quite sensitive to the citizens of the municipality and it is necessary to proceed very carefully. In my opinion, what is nuclear and nuclear waste today can be a very good resource for efficient use in a short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u13	I thank Mr Zahradník. Mr Bendl and Mr Šidlo, duly registered, are now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. [[Call off the microphone.]] In the meantime, he changed his mind. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u14	He was apologizing. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I did not get it right away, but we have already made that clear. Dear colleagues, Members of the Government, let me just say very briefly our position on the Government's proposal for an amendment to the atomic law. We see the government's initiative because we are aware of one thing, that our priority in terms of energy is definitely the development of nuclear energy. We continue to follow up on something that our ancestors have laid in the past in the Czech Republic, and these were the construction and creation of nuclear power plants, for one simple reason that it was very appropriate, as the previous speaker mentioned here, an alternative to an energy source which is stable and of course can be called ecological. [[15.10 hours]] We basically support any further development of nuclear energy. We therefore see that this amendment also brings not only the inclusion of new practical knowledge and needs, which can also serve for further preparation and construction of other blocks, whether in Dukovany or in Temelín, and we also see this in the context of European legislation, because although the material is relatively extensive, there is certainly everything that has appeared within the framework of the still unfinished conditions of the European Commission. So we welcome this, the process of discussing and approving this atomic law, including the accompanying law, which we will be talking about in a moment, we will support and we will make a clear effort in the committees to support its discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u15	I thank Mr Šidl. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking about the Minister's final words. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I, despite the late Friday hour, feel the need to respond to some of the comments made in the debate. Mr Lank on the functioning of Dukovan, and what the Ministry of Industry and Trade will do about it. I would like to say that the Ministry will do its utmost within its competence. However, as far as nuclear safety is concerned, it is within the competence of the State Nuclear Safety Authority, which, I assume, is doing its job. As far as corporate governance is concerned, it is in the competence of the Ministry of Finance and the Supervisory Board, which should see to it that everything was okay. And the Ministry of Industry and Trade generally takes care of the functioning of energy and the supply of electricity to Czech citizens. From this point of view, it does not appear to be a problem from the previous two. That's not quite clear anymore. With regard to the deep storage sites that Mr Kučera raised, the situation here is disturbing, because SURAO, an organization that takes care of nuclear storage, needs to do two stages of geological exploration in seven locations and select the two sites. Here we have not municipalities, but various groups of activists, which deliberately block geological research. And they block it under this motto: they wisely say that we also need a final phase to run nuclear energy, which means a permanent repository. I can't agree with that. At the same time, the same people are doing everything they can to make sure that there is no permanent storage, which I consider quite irresponsible, because we need permanent storage, because we need to put somewhere the already spent nuclear power plants that will be here, even if we shut down both nuclear power plants tomorrow, which I hope we will not do. We need to put it somewhere, because if we don't, the situation will be the same as in Germany, that instead of one permanent repository or two permanent storage sites, 17 are temporary alongside one functioning nuclear power plant or former nuclear power plant, which is much worse. Export of burnt nuclear cells to other countries, these are chimeras, please, which don't take seriously. With regard to lex specialis or special law, which was created by discussion within the Dialogue Working Group, this is something where we are looking for a way to put it into a legislative process so that municipalities can actually participate more in this process, because no permanent storage of nuclear waste will still be built without the consent of the municipalities concerned. I can't imagine. So I don't see any contradiction. As regards the remarks made by Mr Zahradník - COP 21. I do not think there is a risk of endangering the Czech industry. Because we are going to COP 21 to Paris in particular with what we have already suffered, we have discussed within the EU, i.e. reduction of CO2 emissions by 40 per cent compared to 1990 by 2030. This is not a major problem just because 1990 was the last year of central planning de facto, albeit after the revolution, with a huge amount of emissions. That's no problem for us. For us, the problem is different, and this is the share of renewable resources, which is also widely known, not this objective. So we certainly don't have any problems by 2030. And I can only agree with my colleague Zahradník that 2010 might not be a problem, provided nuclear energy is developed and that all other countries will also go to carbon-free energy in 2100. That it would reduce emissions by 100 percent compared to 1990, i.e. to zero. That's all, I think, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u17	I thank the Minister for his final word. The rapporteur is also interested in the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u18	Perhaps briefly, thank you. I want to remind you here that the Czech Republic has the largest share of industry in the production of gross domestic product within EU countries. I hope no one wants the share to fall because industry is crucial for the growth of our standard of living and the economy of the Czech Republic. And of course, if we then convert emissions to head, to a citizen of the Czech Republic, it looks pretty ugly. However, there is always a need to compare industry's share of the economy in comparing countries. So that's one point. This is, of course, a sensitive subject for this reason. No one is preventing us from setting any trend in the gradual reduction of emissions both in the energy sector and in the industry itself. I don't think that's a question. It is also part of the current updated energy concept and the previous one. Then the second thing about nuclear storage. I am quite skeptical that it will succeed in finding nuclear storage in the Czech Republic some time soon. In the end, we don't need it anytime soon. I cannot imagine, like colleagues, that it would be without the approval of the municipalities. However, the situation is quite critical, and although it seems very difficult in this situation in terms of international legislation, I think there are two other ways to look for it. Firstly, within the EU, look for a way together with the countries using nuclear energy to some central European repository - one way that, of course, looks naive enough in this view of existing law, but in my view, we also have to try to follow this path. The other way is, or another, which I think might open up, is that nuclear fuel suppliers could also be nuclear fuel customers. There's only two of them, so it's not that complicated. And the last note to the nuclear repository is that at the moment, the nuclear repository might look like a deep hole in the country, based, of course, on some geological requirements, nuclear fuel can be there, spent, and concrete will be forever. He won't be paying for this for long. It will be true that the storage of nuclear waste will be a kind of warehouse, because today's spent fuel is a future raw material. I'm sure you do. If it's in ten, fifteen or twenty years, that's the question. But we have to think about this view, this modern view of the solution to the situation, and not just that we're going to try to concrete existing spent fuel somewhere. No, the situation is difficult. We're in a relative hurry, but because it's what we're asked to do. On the other hand, an in-house spent fuel can be used here for another 50 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u19	I thank the rapporteur for his final words. I do not see a motion for a refund or for a rejection of the proposal. We will therefore consider the proposal for a committee's order for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is serial number 253, 150 Members and Members, 136, against none. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. I have noted Mr Kučera's proposal on the commandment of the Committee on the Environment. That's one suggestion. Mrs Kovářová is also reporting. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u20	I would like to propose this press on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-005-051.u21	We will vote on these proposals. First of all, the commandment of the Committee on the Environment. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the commandment of the Environment Committee, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 254, 150 Members and Members, for 130, against 1. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the commandments of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I've started the vote. Whoever is for the commandment to this committee, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 255, 151 Members and Members, for 127, against 1. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that the guarantee committee of this bill is an economic committee, and we have ordered the bill to the Committee on the Environment and Public Administration and Regional Development. I'm ending reading this bill first. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is related item. It's...
