ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u1	118. Annual Report on Czech Television Economics in 2013 /German press 283/ The report submitted was discussed by the Election Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 283/1. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Chvojka, to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I am not quite sure if there should be a change in the rapporteur's vote because Mr Birke was originally supposed to be here and he is not here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u3	Let me just say this: if the Organizing Committee were to identify the rapporteur and change, it would be put to the vote. If it is the Committee's rapporteur, it does not have to be voted. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u4	Thank you for your explanation. Clearly, you are an expert on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u5	[[With laughter:]] I am now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u6	That's what I meant completely honestly and in a good way. Okay, thank you. At its 15th meeting on 2 October 2014, the Election Committee addressed this annual report on the management of Czech Television in 2013. The Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, after hearing the opening words of the President of the Council of the Czech Television, by Master Jaroslav Dědič, by Mr Jan Birke's report, and after the debate, first recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies approves the Annual Report on the Management of Czech Television in 2013 according to the Chamber of Press 283; secondly, instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the annual report on Czech Television's management in 2013 by the Election Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u7	I thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening up a general debate in which Mr Valenta, Mr Komárek, Mrs Hubáčková, joined. Mr. Komárek is here twice, so it will be a mistake. Mr. Valenta's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, let me be certain in relation to the approval of this annual report by Czech Television for 2013, but I believe that this is an extremely appropriate reflection. From the content of this submitted report it can be concluded that the average wage on Czech television reached CZK 37 173 in 2013, in Prague the average wage was CZK 29,000, in the Czech Republic then CZK 25,000, which means that for the period ten years ago this increase in Czech television reached a gigantic 50 percent, that is, it is an obvious salary above average, which unfortunately does not correspond at all with the timelessness or incompleteness of the communications of some employees in the broadcast. I am thinking, for example, in the news, but also in other kinds of programmes, i.e. with the quality of broadcasting and the mission of public service as such. Some evidence of inhospitability, and only one of many, can be seen in this regard, for example, in History.cs , which is stated at the main time of broadcasting, when the cost of one broadcast hour is around CZK 300,000. This show is highly biased, and for this reason it is followed by a maximum of 38 to 80,000 spectators. For your information, the news reported by the Czech Television also monitors around 800,000 spectators in prime time. Furthermore, unfortunately, the report does not mention which organizational services of Czech Television affect the average level of salaries mentioned above in particular, so further consideration in this sense is no longer possible. The report also states that a number of organizational changes have been implemented, which aim to further simplify and streamline the organizational structure and processes of the Czech Television, but nowhere are the essential ones specified and the main ones so that we can assess it ourselves. I also lacked information in the report as to whether and which internal regulations have been amended, or also where the nature of the fundamental and decisive changes in the organisation would be mentioned. So, at least in these aspects, this document is incomplete in my opinion. And what else is not mentioned in the annual report of Czech Television? For your illustration of how the Czech Television is managed, I will present at least three very special or suspicious cases of competition. First: The selection process of satellite distribution ČT HD, the winner of which was the company E4C Group s. r. o., is a company on the date of its selection without its own website, and which was only available on the Internet for the indication that it is starting to succeed recently. The competitive price was CZK 9.5 million, no security was required, which is at least special. The competitive maturity was 40 days, but the reality is 14 days. We can ask: Isn't this a violation of the terms of the contract to the detriment of Czech Television? Secondly, the selection procedure for the printing service. The procedure was chosen without publication by Impromat for CZK 31.2 million, but before that the company OCÉ was excluded with an offer of CZK 27,5 million. The competition authority is still saving the contract. Third: selection procedure. Analysis of the activities of CT TV studio Brno, TV studio Ostrava. The simplified sub-limit procedure was abolished and was subsequently competed by a negotiated procedure without publication, when the only tender was submitted and also then won by Nexia AP, a. s. with a price of CZK 2.5 million. However, the reason for this company's victory was supposedly senselessly fast management, while other companies did not have a chance to process and submit their offers in such a time frame. The winning company worked for the CEO of Dvořák already in Nova and from this period comes the only reference to this contract. And wonder for the world, signed by Mr. Dvořák, too. Another problem with the content of the report presented is certain suspicions of inhospitability on Czech television and the annual report does not explain such significant uncertainties. Here too, I will be happy to give you examples. First: Transport costs and travel costs have increased again, already to CZK 63 million. In the annual report, this fact is merely factually stated, not more precisely specified, which is really very special for such a high item. Only the amount for the use of taxi services is between CZK 30 million and CZK 40 million. We can rightly ask: Are these really effectively spent funds, and is it really okay that externalists also use this service? And naturally also at the costs of Czech television, i.e. also at the licence fees of citizens of the Czech Republic. Let's go. Czech Television supported the EBU meeting, which is the European Broadcasting Union, in Prague with a sum of CZK 10 million, directly from its budget. Let us ask: What is the contribution of this investment to Czech TV? Or is it merely the financial form of Petr Dvořák's candidacy to the forehead of this institution, and of course from public money, the money of our dealers? I asked myself this question a few months ago, but now that I know that Director Dvořák has actually become a member of the EBU Executive Committee in Geneva at the next meeting in this organization, she has offered me the answer herself. A remarkable benefit, I note, that the benefit in quotation marks could be at least the fact that Czech television was the first television where EBU carried out a complete analysis of how public media values are being fulfilled from the way programmes are developed to the news. I would also like to study this analysis very much, because everyone knows about the massive wave of complaints of Czech citizens about the objectivity of Czech television now, but quite possibly this report sounds favorably for Czech television, especially when the financial contribution of EBU from Czech Television was so high. Neither of these facts is mentioned in the Council report, let alone explained. On the contrary. This report notes only the general flosculi that Czech television will continue to save. However, at another point in the report, it is added that current funding is unsustainable and some solutions will need to be adopted. This text can only be blocked for the public as follows: Let us prepare for the necessary increase in licence fees. However, the question is whether Czech Television deserves these fees for its work and how it is managed at all. In short, I would like to mention the so much biased bias of Czech television, which I also indicated at the beginning of my speech and which also has its feedback on the management of the public institution itself. The situation was mature enough that after permanent and intense criticism from the general public, an analysis of the independence of Czech television was produced at the Council of Czech Television. According to my information, it was created in a very tender manner. Instead of relevant statistics, a subjective impression of the former editor of Respekt Jaroslav Formánek and his team was used. Now I would like to pause over the quality and objectivity of the evaluation of the messages transmitted by Czech Television to the Council of Czech Television. This is taking place in a strange climate. I will set an example and judge for yourself. At the meeting of the Czech Television Council on 10 September, Councillor Michael Hauser pointed out that another member of the Czech Television Council, namely Michal Jankovec, was co-author of a number of documents submitted by Czech Television to the Council. These documents can also be found on the web. Mr. Jankovec finds himself in a double role. As councillor, he approves and controls the materials presented to the board by Czech Television, but also participates in their creation. So in a way, he controls himself. I ask: Can it not have reduced objectivity or even incorrectness and error rate even this annual report presented to you? I already answered my question. [[11.50 hours]] Significant problems with approval were also with the 2012 ČT management report in January last year. As you may remember, according to some media, such as Lidovky.cz, lobbyists were hired by Director Dvořák, who were supposed to get positive opinions from Members. The lobbyists came from a company whose co-owner is former MP and ODS spokesperson. The reason for concern about non-approval could also be the performance of the Board of Czech Television Radek Mezuláník on the electoral committee, who then claimed that the data presented in the submitted report - and now pay attention - did not correspond to reality. But why did Mr. Director Dvořák hire lobbyists when politicians could ask questions about committee meetings in the House personally, he never explained himself. On the contrary, he initiated private, separate meetings with individual Members, some even in the form of dinner. Many Members have also eventually admitted this to the media. Perhaps the most media-open case, when private companies, such as Prague Production, were supposed to steal taxes from the state thanks to sponsoring the Czech Television, should earn tens of millions of crowns. They allegedly practiced this by issuing invoices for higher amounts than the TV actually paid. Customers of intermediaries reduced their tax base by indicating higher costs and then returned some of the money to them. According to Mladá fronta TODAY, clients for companies were acquired by the camp entrepreneur Filip Rožek, who is friends with the former financial director of Czech Television František Lambert. Here we can look only indirectly for the Czech Television's guilt, but in my subjective opinion, the proper function of control mechanisms would have been found much earlier on for such an illegal and condemned approach. However, for complete objectivity, I must add that the ČT submitted a criminal notice to the Mladá front today, which first appeared, in the light of this media communication. Back to this annual report. For the sake of completeness, however, I will add just one more piece of information so that I do not talk for too long, because you could certainly have already made the necessary picture yourself. During the election committee, this annual report received support from four full members of the five present, which, to some extent, illustrates not only the position and low interest of some colleagues on this issue, but, in particular, the fact that the support in this institution might not be sufficient, in a complete assembly, in other words, majority. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the selected information and submitted to you, at least for me, that the honourable House should not approve this annual report on ČT's 2013 management. Such a decision will certainly not take any destructive step, but only and only to set the appropriate direction to optimize the ČT's management and subsequently to improve the comprehensive activity of this public institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u9	I would now like to address the microphone with the factual remark of Mrs Němcová and then with the priority right of Mr Stanjura. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief remark on what has been said here by a colleague who spoke before me. First of all, I have to say that there was no lobbyist behind me, so in this respect, please beg the accusation that they have been coming around us all. Secondly, if the colleague blames the report for the degree of generality, that means that, for example, in the item to the right when I listened to it, all the items were not mended as he would have imagined, so he himself should not commit the same sin. The moment one of the shows criticizes the show about history and says it's biased, I'm more demanding to know what's biased, what's bothering the MP, what's wrong with the show, not just because it's on the air: I've been looking at it and it's biased, and that's the end of it for me. Mr. Colleague, that's very little! That can't be enough for an assessment! Either you're going to be specific, or this is just a word that's blown into the wind just because maybe one of the talking people touched the communists and what they did here, and that's why the show became biased.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u11	Thank you and please now with Mr Stanjura's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u12	I'm a member of the election committee. We discussed the report last year and adopted the resolution in May 2014. And in addition to one opposition Member, everyone voted in favour, including President Komárek. But in the meantime, the situation has changed and someone wants to settle accounts with the Czech Television for 2013. Not to mention the really smiling assessment of a Member who authorityally says which programme is or is not objective. It doesn't matter! I confess that, like many of you, when I go to a television show, Czech Television sends for me and pays for a taxi. I'm certainly not the only one. I don't know how many millions of cabs are gonna pay for guests. It is not just politicians that go there, many others go there, and I believe that Members from other political parties are also taking advantage of this opportunity. I'm sure we out of Prague do. If you're going somewhere for the tenth night, it's perfectly normal for you to do it. I mean, the debate on the electoral committee was quite calm, little confrontational, quite a consensus. A Member who has just spoken here for 15 minutes, with some information, had the opportunity to come in last April, last May, last June, last July, etc., and if he had asked us to return to the report, we would certainly have complied with him in the election committee. Come today, after eleven months of the election committee closing the debate and asking for specific information about a particular selection procedure, no one can answer you here! Czech Television management sits on the committee, there sits the leadership of the ČT Board and answers specific questions from Members, not only members of the electoral committee, but every member of the Chamber of Deputies can come to the meeting of any committee, he must be given the floor, and undoubtedly he would have answered those questions. So I'm asking where you've been for the last 11 months when you're reading to us specifically JŘBÚ and you're questioning relatively significant and respected institutions. Why not, but you had 11 months to deal with it where it's supposed to be on the committee. Of course, we cannot discuss these details here because we do not have enough information, and those who have them do not have access to the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. It's very simple for me. We can talk, and let's talk about management control. When we select councillors, don't choose your party colleagues, but depending on whether they are able or unable to control the management. Not for individual politicians to evaluate the objectivity of one or the other. This was touched by the report - they took the liberty of writing about Agrofert! And really seriously, the guy who was paid from this holding wants to deal with this very seriously. I don't mind someone like Agrofert writing a complaint. I really don't mind. I don't care what they want. And I know that dictionary, and I'm sure some of the people who are going to be critical of it. Keep them in order! We expect consistent personnel implications to emerge. I read the complaint, and even though it wasn't written by the finance minister, check me out, it says Ing 20 times. Andrej Babiš. Twenty times! [[A round of applause for Members of the ODS.]] And it says authoritarianly - the representatives of Agrofert decided that the shows were not objective. And that's how they write it. It's from public sources. Anyone who wants to find it online can read it. We can count it. There may be 21, maybe 19, but I insist it's 20. I counted it quite thoroughly and honestly. So let's not mess with the fact that not approving the report means nothing. It does! It means attack, efforts to intimidate without specific reasons. Whoever has reservations about the economy, whether they go to the electoral committee, whether they ask specific questions, whether management answers and then we are able to assess whether the answers are credible or not, whether they correspond or do not correspond to reality or things. There can be no mention of any increase in licence fees, because it is not really the Czech Television or the Czech Television Council. If you are worried about increased licence fees, then first find out who can decide and there do some negotiations and measures to prevent this from happening. We're against increasing licence fees. We talked about this several times on the election committee. [[12.00 hours]] And now for all sorts of good ideas. I think there's a chance we can use that in the debate. Let's return the ad to ČT 1. That'll bring hundreds of millions. And those who suggest it must already say that money was taken from the ad on ČT 1 to the cinematography fund. At the time we took the advertising law from ČT 1, we imposed this obligation on private televisions, where 2% of the advertising sold must be directed to the cinematography fund. If we wanted to convert and reintroduce advertising to ČT 1, logically we would have to return the obligation of Czech Television to implement the cinema fund and at the same time to get rid of private television. We can always say the whole thing. But really, you who have reservations - and I also belong to those who critically perform on the election committee, who you want, come listen to it - so come apply them there. Not eleven months after almost unanimously, with the exception of one opposition vote, the members of the electoral committee voted in favour of the recommendation of the Chamber of Deputies to vote in favour. If you think and if you want Czech TV to work according to your political notes, then say it directly, do not be ashamed of it and do not hide behind proxy arguments!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u13	Thank you, Mr. Zbyněk Stanjur. Of course, we cannot prohibit anyone from giving their speeches not only on the committee, but also on the plenary, but before I give a factual comment to Mr Komárek, who has applied for it, then with priority rights will Mr Kučera, so I will state the apology from today: Mr Jiří Štětina from 13 o'clock for health reasons, then colleague Šincl from 12 to 13 and then from 16 o'clock to the end and Mr Farský from 15 o'clock to the end of the sitting day. Mr Komárek's point of order, then Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u14	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr President. My colleague Stanjura is very precise in numbers. He was wrong at least twice this time. First of all, it's less serious, but of course I've never been paid by Agrofert. I got, I think, a three-month payout from the YES movement as his manager. The second, more serious thing, but maybe it's not Stanjura's fault, because most of it is the crazy Czech Television Act. We did not discuss the report on the economics of Czech Television on 22 May, but on 2 October, although Mr Stanjura remembers exactly how peaceful it was. He simply misjudged the report on the activities and management of Czech Television. Of course, this absurdity of the law should be corrected. It's about as if the plumber fixed your water supply, would inform you all about it being fixed, you wouldn't be able to verify it, and in six months he would send you a $50,000 bill. Crowns. This absurdity, of course, is a matter of law, neither the Council nor Mr Stanjura are to blame. He was just supposed to be a little more careful when he read the news names. And maybe he remembers such a completely different act than the one he was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u15	Thank you. Even before my colleague Kučera, who has priority for the TOP 09, Mr Stanjura's factual comment. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u16	I don't have a problem admitting a mistake when I'm wrong. I'm sorry, Martin Komárek didn't pay Agrofert, but the YES movement. It's confusing to me sometimes, but I'm really sorry, it wasn't really intentional, it's really confusing, I don't know how it is sometimes. I made the wrong date, but I think very well the report. I think it is true that you voted in favour that it is so that we were all there, I was in the discussion of both reports and I think that the discussion of both reports was rather peaceful. I agree with you that it would be better to have it in one. We also have two deadlines for submitting those reports. But again, we said on the committee, either in May or October, maybe in May and October, that we would do something about it. I'm an opposition MP, I don't have a legislative system behind me, I don't have anyone I can tell you so try writing it, we have a good idea. I do not think that the amendment to the Czech Television Act should be written by opposition Members, because they could make some legislative mistakes and legislative technical shortcomings even in good faith. The fact that I support this proposal, and I agree with Mr Komárek, the President of the Election Committee, I think it would be useful and that it would make the discussion clear, and if the Government or the Government as an institution comes up with this proposal, I think that on this point we would support such a change of law because it is absolutely logical. I apologize for confusing the data with the employer. There was no real intention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with priority rights, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u18	Hello, thank you for your word. A number of important messages and facts have been made here, and I would therefore like to request a 55-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u19	Okay. I have no choice but to comply with the TOP 09 Club, which wants to consult on the 2013 Czech Television Management Report. I'm declaring a break until 2:30. I can do nothing else because we have Thursday and the afternoon meeting on Thursday always starts with oral interpelations to the Prime Minister and then to the members of the government. Unfortunately, I don't have my list of winning interviews delivered yet to report my first interview. If anyone already has this document, at least I'll report it. Thank you for your help. Mr Antonín Seďa, then Mrs Miroslava Němcová, will be the first interviewer at 14.30. Thank you and enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-09-ps2013-026-09-016-118.u20	Dear colleagues, it is 14.30 a.m. and the next item of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting is oral interview, this time for Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka.
