ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u1	54. Government bill amending Act No. 44/1988 Coll., on the Protection and Use of Mineral Riches (Mountain Law), as amended /German Press 500/ - First Reading The Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will also present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the bill is to simplify and make more transparent the process of managing the payments from acquired minerals and the recovery areas, to increase the revenue of the State budget from the payments received by minerals and to change the proportion of the distribution of the revenue from the payments received by minerals between the municipality and the state budget. The simplification and transparency of the payment management process will be achieved by changing the method of calculating the remuneration from the minerals obtained and by clearly unifying the management of the payments with the tax rules. The calculation of the remuneration from obtained minerals was still based on a complicated formula covering a number of difficult to control economic parameters, where the rate of remuneration was only one of the items of this formula. In addition, this formula was modified only by decree. It is now proposed that the remuneration of the extracted minerals be calculated only as the product of the amount of the harvested minerals and the rate of the remuneration. An exception is the method of calculating the remuneration from brown coal received by the surface, where the amount of the remuneration is calculated from the product of the calorific value of brown coal and the rate of remuneration. Compared to the current situation, the draft amendment to the Mining Act envisages that the determination of the method for calculating the amount of the remuneration will be entrusted solely to the law and not to the decree. It currently lays down rules for the management of payments both the Mining Act and the Implementing Decree. Practice has shown that this situation leads to interpretation problems. Therefore, the bill envisages that all the rules governing payment management will be regulated directly in the upper law. The terminology and procedures for the management of the payments were to the extent possible unified with the tax rules, while maintaining the specific rules of payment. The issue of increasing the revenue of the state budget from the proceeds of the payments from the minerals received was the subject of complex negotiations with employers in the mining industry and the relevant trade unions. The proposed bill is based on the outcome of these negotiations. It is assumed that the total yield of the payments from the extracted minerals will increase to around 1 billion. CZK versus 2013, which amounted to approximately CZK 596 million. Kč. The revenue of the state budget from the proceeds of the payments from the recovered minerals should be increased to around 576 million. CZK 149 mil. CZK in 2013. The remaining part of the yield always falls to municipalities. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to adjust the rates of remuneration for the minerals obtained. The specific level of these rates has so far been regulated by the Decree, and it is now proposed that they be laid down by the Government's regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u3	I'm very sorry, Minister. I will ask the House for peace, especially the famous left corner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u4	This method will allow flexible response to changes in the economic situation by adjusting rates, but requires a collective consensus to be reached at the highest level of executives. The proposal for a specific level of rates was already presented in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. However, the upper law sets a maximum limit not exceeding the level of the rates. The ratio of the distribution of this revenue between the State budget and the municipality had to be adjusted in the context of the projected increase in the revenue of the state budget from the revenue from the payments of the minerals received. The proposal is consistently based on the fact that the income of municipalities must be maintained at the current level and the ratio of the distribution of revenues for each type of mineral has been adjusted accordingly. At the same time, in the draft law, the rates of remuneration from the conquering areas, which is the sole income of municipalities, were increased. The proceeds of this remuneration should bring about CZK 100 million to the municipality's budget compared to less than CZK 14 million, which the municipalities received in 2013. In conclusion, honourable Members, I would like to ask you to support this bill at today's meeting as well as in the following legislative process in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently at second and third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u5	I thank the Minister for presenting this bill, and I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Milan Urban on his report. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will have this rather easy, because the Minister here has detailed and detailed what is described and proposed in the relevant amendment to the Mining Act. Given that this is a relatively progressive change in Czech legislation in terms of dealing with mineral wealth of the Czech Republic, I expect that negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies will also be the subject of a rather extensive and broad discussion during the first reading, as this amendment concerns many municipalities, citizens, business entities, state budget and so on. So the debate will certainly be comprehensive and we will see whether it will be discussed in detail after the first reading and in the various committees of the Chamber of Deputies. However, I think it is worth our careful and professional attention to it. I recommend you release for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate to which Mr Schwarz first came forward with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm not going to speak as professionally as I'd like to talk for a moment about our region, say something to the Minister. I was born there, I live there, and it looks like I'm gonna die there because I'm old enough. I think I have something to say, and it concerns me. I've been in connection with breaking or breaking limits several times - that's not a technical term, I know it, but I use it, I'm not a miner, I'm not a lobbyist, it should be said otherwise - he pointed out the not-so-pink future of Mostecka in case brown coal mining doesn't continue. We all know the state of the limit decision. I don't want to talk about it. I just want to point out that we who live in the region really do not want to leave a place for our children to live, where there will be no more work or the possibility of any development. But no matter how the limit decisions go, so far it looks like only Bílina's mine is going to continue, at least that's what we're talking about, because I don't care about it and I don't lobby the Minister. It's just a government thing. That's it. I would like to say that real estate that will have no value in our region is also not quite a good prospect for investors and everyone avoids us by arch. That is why I appreciate companies that have long worked and paid taxes in our region. In Ústí and especially in Mosteck. I am talking above all about mining companies, which will benefit coal here for decades and which Mostecko supports annually, all municipalities, not only Most, not only the insignificant amounts from which we build schools, kindergartens, sports grounds. I'm saying this here on purpose to remind some people. However, by concluding my brief speech, I would like to say that I appreciate the acceptable compromise and the political agreement that the Minister was involved in, in the form of a final consensus, on the double increase from the fee from the conquered mineral, which will certainly help the Treasury, and on the other hand, brown coal companies, the mining industry, will not do any harm to be forced to partially or completely limit the various types of aid to the cities and municipalities of our region where we live. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u9	I thank Vice-President Schwarz. Another duly registered member is Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u10	Hello. Thanks for the word. I'm very glad that my colleague Schwarz came before me. However, I believe he probably read a different amendment to the Upper Law than I did. And now I would very much like Members of the municipalities in particular to listen to those regions that are affected by mining, because in this law, in this amendment, it is said that they will receive less money. Now let me explain to you what the problem is, or where the dog is buried. The fact that the objective of the amendment should be achieved in a new way to calculate the payments and from the minerals obtained by setting a new level of remuneration rates for the minerals obtained and a new proportion of the distribution of the remuneration income between the municipality and the state budget has already been mentioned here by both Minister Mládek and the rapporteur. At the same time, there is a proposal in the amendment to increase the rate of remuneration from the period. How, then, in this amendment - and now, of course, I am sorry that, for example, Mr Schwarz does not listen - but how did the municipalities end up in this amendment and how did the regions end up? [[Talking to his colleagues]] Of course... I can say that I, too, thought that the municipalities would improve, that the regions would improve. But the opposite is really true. The Ministry's statement states that municipalities will be neutral about it, that is to say, the ratio of part of the proceeds of the income from the extracted minerals will change, change in categories, change in other partial payments, change in partial payments from oil or flammable natural gas, change in partial payments from radioactive minerals. But it is quite fundamentally transformed into a partial remuneration from brown coal, which has been completed in a surface manner. There is a dramatic change in the ratio, and it is dramatic in favour of the state budget. What's the affair like? By 33 percent of the municipality's budget, on whose territory brown coal mining was carried out on a surface basis, firstly, and secondly - 67 percent of the state budget. I understand, of course, that by doubling the amount that my previous speaker was talking about, there will be an increase in revenue. But unfortunately, to increase the revenue of the state budget, not to increase the revenue of municipalities. The municipalities will be neutral about it. Of course, I'll be glad to be wrong and there's another level of error hidden under there that I haven't noticed, and the municipalities will get more. But I don't see it yet. What does that mean for the community? The miners will take a larger percentage into the state budget, so they will have a greater economic burden. Today mining companies, and this colleague Schwarz and I think also colleague Vozka will be right, strongly support the municipalities in the region, meaning they give them various sponsorship gifts, support etc. Why should mining companies sponsor municipalities today if they're paying more income to the state budget? [[15.20 hours]] Why should they give extra money when they say: Yes, we already do our duty, you've increased our fees twice, you're taking it to the state budget, so it's the responsibility of the state to give it back to you. However, the state does not return the money back to the regions affected by the mining. The state will take the money, the Minister Babiš will take it into his budget and release it into the black hole he created in the health care, education, in the unreformed budget he has prepared for 2016. So the money from these villages will be sucked out and sent to the black hole of the budget of Secretary Andrej Babiš. I don't know what the Ústí Region did to Minister Mládek. What he did to Mr. Andrea Babiš that they decided to suck him out. Why did they decide to take money from the municipalities of the Ústí Region and from the Ústí Region? But of course not just from there. I'm talking about the Ústí Region, of course it's going to happen in other regions and municipalities. But, of course, the surface extraction of brown coal, which is particularly relevant, is only in the Ústí Region. Minister Mládek on some show said he spoke for the people of the Ústí Region. I think if he told them the truth that he presented here, these people would chase him very quickly, very quickly from the Ústí Region. Since I cannot fundamentally identify myself not with the intention of simplifying the remuneration, of course, it is absolutely okay, but with the way in which money is distributed between the municipalities and the state, between this ratio, I would like to propose that this amendment be returned to the petitioner for revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u11	I thank Mr Kučer. Another duly registered member is Mr David Kádner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u12	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am the mayor of one of the mountain villages, which is directly affected by coal mining, and I am very concerned about what the government is presenting to us today. In this draft amendment to the Mining Act, the government is counting on doubling the so-called payments from the extracted minerals of brown coal, but several amounts appeared during the time the law was discussed. Originally, even a tenfold fee was envisaged, and between the Minister of Finance Babiš and Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Mládek, it was a big fight at the time. In the upcoming amendment, the conditions are set so that any increase in income will go to the state budget. And as has been said here several times, the municipalities in northern Bohemia will remain only negative consequences. Today, these revenues are divided in proportion to 75 municipalities and 25 percent of the state. But this is now to change to 33 percent for the municipalities and 67 percent for the state. Minister Babiš is thus tumbling the coal regions in the north by about half a billion crowns and will only restock his budget. Unfortunately, all the negative effects will remain only on the municipalities. It is totally unacceptable that action with such a serious impact on vulnerable regions should be taken without proper debate and without mapping the consequences. Originally, it was promised that the impact on regions would be clearly calculated within the framework of the law, that so-called. assessment of the impact of RIA regulation, and with us as municipalities, unfortunately no one has dealt with the bill. The Minister of Finance's aim is not at all an optimal setting of the collection of mining fees. His only goal is the money he gets out of it only in his budget. Yes, the Minister of Finance said at the beginning that the law gives the municipalities roughly the same amount to which they are entitled. But they are not talking about the money that municipalities affected by mining get beyond the law. It is money that is invested in our region and which is an important part of compensation for the damage caused by mining. It's money that must remain in the county. The point is, if you suck the money out of the region, it'll just never be there again, and the finance minister will recover at the expense of one of the poorest regions in our country. This is totally unacceptable. That's why I want to file a motion to dismiss this law. And I repeat that it is not possible to tunnel one of the poorest regions just so that Minister Babiš improves his state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u13	I thank Mr Kádner and I note his proposal to reject the proposal. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. Here, sharp words fall as the state wants to improve its budget through a change of circumstances. She's not new. If you look at how the lottery law is being prepared now, it is de facto the same thing, because the lottery is being carried out on the territory of the municipalities, but the state wants to collect more. So it's happening, too, it's nothing new. But, of course, I'd like to ask you something completely different. I overheard, and apparently it's a reality that originally the price of the conquering space should have been ten times higher than it is up to now. And now we've gotten to the number twice. And I wonder, and I ask the Minister how they came to these calculations. Because, of course, if you increase the price for renting the space, then the multiple of that price does not have to mean much higher income for the state or for the municipalities, because of course it does not have to go hand in hand, as the people say. So that's my question, because it's a really big shot - ten times or twice. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u15	I thank Mr Adamc. Another duly registered member is Mr Vlastimil Vozka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only a brief remark from the position of Member elected for the Ústí Region. Unlike the discussion on the topic called. Breaking or failing to break the mining limits in northern Bohemia, which is not going in a very good direction for our region, I can say in the case of the amendment to the Mining Act that, after complex negotiations and calculations, double the income of the state from the acquired mineral, agreed by Minister Babiš and Minister Mládek, belongs to the category of reasonable compromises. The submitted document addresses the issue not only from the point of view of the miners, for which a tenfold increase in liquidation would originally be planned, but above all from the point of view of our region. We are following developments in this area within the municipalities and cities concerned with some concerns due to the already great social responsibility of mining companies in our region. I believe that this social responsibility will not be undermined by the proposed amendment. I will not repeat information on the fundamental meaning of coal mining for our region at this time. I'll just say one sentence. If we treat the extraction of cheap, domestic and available raw materials, which brown coal is undoubtedly, at least as reasonably as an increase in the fee from the extracted minerals, the positive outlook for the future will be maintained for Mostek, at least in terms of the employment and development of the region. Given the complexity of the issue and a number of professional aspects, I recommend the adoption of the amendment and the release to the next legislative process and its discussion in the Economic Committee, where these expert aspects will certainly be discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u17	I thank Mr Vozka. With a factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u18	Thank you for the floor. I am getting used to hearing various statements from members of the ANO 2011 club. I have now noted support for breaking the limits of Members of Vozka and Schwarz. I have recently noted statements that have been harshly opposed to breaking the limits of Minister Brabec and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Maybe you guys can clear up your MP's club. Or maybe it's kind of a tactic that everyone's gonna approach their target group, and maybe it's also a way of populizing themselves. However, I would like to say to my predecessor - he was talking about corporate social responsibility. I mean, the social responsibility of companies, mining companies, will now be fulfilled in the increase in the remuneration. Today they did it voluntarily, today they paid the various subsidies and they gave various grants and they gave various support, they gave them voluntarily within the very social responsibility of companies. Today, they're going to have an increased remuneration, and logically they should say yes to each other, in which case, we're already doing it in the increased remuneration, and it's now up to the state to encourage the municipalities to raise them from the amount we pay, the contributions, the payments. And I'm afraid that's not in this novel. I was pointing that out. Again, Minister Mládek and Minister Andrej Babiš decided to drain the Ústí Region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u19	I thank Mr Kučer for his point of view. Another duly registered member is Mr. Jiří Dolejš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u20	Have a good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps my colleagues from northern Bohemia will forgive me for speaking to this law, but since the law is generally applicable, perhaps it is not just about the debate on North Bohemia's energy, although I certainly understand that in particular. But I'm the guy on the budget committee who's used to working with numbers, reading numbers. And I have to say, when I saw the bill's proposal, there were two things in my head. One is generally political. I realized that we have a long-term system of mining payments, mining rights, and that these, of course, produce some revenue. And the question is whether, in the long run, this corresponds to the profits of the respective energy companies that we released to this deal a long time ago. Our political opinion may not be surprising that these payments should not be set this low, but that is, of course, the last thing. Now we are in some real time and we must find some reasonable compromise. Of course, the reasonable compromise is about numbers. So I'm getting to the numbers I was looking for. And scatteredly, as when you're sugaring a christmas or a poppy bagel, I found a number there or onde in the explanatory report, but in order to see a comprehensive interpretation, let's say a clear table to which there will be a reference to some impact study, so I didn't see it. And at the same time, I think that's the point. That's especially the point. I do not want to import without deeper knowledge or deeper evidence whether there is any price war in the background between those giants that move there, whether Mostecká carbonná or Czech Coal etc., we know the companies and the people behind it. But in any case, we expect certain revenue from budgets. The state budget, of course, has already been said that the Minister of Finance would like to steal as much of that amount as possible and into the municipal budget, namely the municipalities affected by the explosion of mineral resources. And when we learn that, after some of the previous far more generous considerations, the creators of this solution paid about 100 percent of the increase, there were 150 percent and more figures, and even the sums were moving in higher planes, one would wonder how much it would be absolutely and if there was a specific calculation behind the absolute numbers. And I didn't know that, and that's why I did my show. I, unlike some colleagues who are so upset that they want to reject the draft or at least return to recast - because there are no coalition MPs, so we will see how it turns out - but in any case, I see a certain deficiency with regard to the argument. And I think we can catch up during second reading, where we can figure out to what extent these numbers are virtual, what the effects will be. Not just on the state budget. I remember when we were discussing and finally approving the 2015 budget, this item - in that trillion, you could say, backpacker, hundreds of millions, one billion - was a figure, and it wasn't worth the calculation, because it was probably assumed that this thing would be done before, and it didn't. And in the future, of course, the calculations in the budget that the government has just discussed are undoubtedly also, but perhaps even more important are the impacts on the municipalities. It's a hell of an amount for these communities. The calculation should not only be transparent, but also predictable, because for municipalities it is about budgetary being or not being. And then, of course, there's the other side of the equation, the one that's being offered, where I'm going to ignore the price war between the energy giants. But the side of the offer also has the interesting quality of bringing work to the region. I mean, it's about employment. And, of course, the reaction of these companies is necessarily reflected in employment in the region. Unfortunately, the fact that we have not been able to build alternative production capacities in the northern Bohemia region over the past 20 years, that they are still very heavily dependent on brown coal mining, is a fact that we will not change from one day to the next. So my contribution is going to the virtual numbers. I'd like to see some justification for the numbers or the calculations. But I would point out that there is another weak factor, and that for specific rates, the specific percentage in the equation, which is supposed to be simplified, is referred to the implementing regulation, that is, that it is not directly in the law. And as it happens, and of course, the general idea, the general rule is fine. Then the parameters are set - and the numbers are completely different. So I also see this as a weakness of this proposal, which is why I look forward to the fact that if someone from the rhetoric doesn't explain it to me right here, and it's hard to reproduce here maybe even conflicting impact studies, because I can imagine that these players are going to figure it out differently, but that there will be enough room for us to at least make it clear in this punkt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u21	I thank Mr Dolejš. Another duly registered member is Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm sorry that's what's being presented here at the defendant's table. Excuse me, Babiš should sit with the petitioner and the rapporteur in my opinion, except for the first part of the law where there is something about documentation. And the members of the ANO 2011 movement could also report it better. I can't help wondering where their representatives are going and what they said here. And I'm really wondering how far this absurdistan is going to go. They just calm down because of an episode of bankrupt firms throw regions into another problem and excavation and, on the other hand, take their money. And those people are still voting for it. I'd like to remind you how this whole thing actually came about in terms of the fees. It is in the exclusive competence of the Ministry of Industry. However, the Minister was not the instigator, so I hope that he will not take my performance personally, because he really is not responsible for this, and I can imagine that in YES slices he will come out after a while: but I do not want to, I do not care, that is the matter of the MIT. First, the increase - six, ten times - of mining fees for minerals - was due to the fact that OKD was involved in economic problems. [[15.40 hours]] And, of course, on one side of the scales, somebody put the billions gained and on the other, that there is no money for bailout and how little the mining fees are paid. And that's where it came from. It was Babiš. Then we got to the stage that he knew it might hit the House. We've been pointing that out. Even for this year, there was an item in the state budget to get 600 million. Moreover, it is precisely from the increase in fees. The opposition here pointed out that it wasn't real, and that it was even an item that didn't support the law. There was an episode where the government could do it, or the Ministry of Finance or Industry by decree, and there was no need to change the law. Now it turns out it wasn't like that either. This means this item in the budget, as we pointed out from the very beginning, was false, false and illegal. If I take the material side of the matter, it has already been said that it will need to be discussed in detail in the committees. There's no analysis in the material, so we're being presented here again. You know, I think that if someone drives the state in style: I'll try ten times, the miners got on Minister Mládek, they held their heads, that they wouldn't pull ten times, so there was a license on any market, if it was six-, five-, one-, double, until suddenly you have this. I'm pretty sure I'm not quite clear on these negotiations for any reason that there hasn't been any analysis yet. This isn't just about OKD or pointing out one single company. You know, if I take the coal mining segment, the price of coal is very low. Again, it is not impossible that the issue will open up, how long will it be able to continue with state aid and whether OKD will work with state aid at all. Huge pressures are in terms of the economic situation of Mostecký coal. And somebody here is gonna say that this is gonna get expensive. In addition to the clear coal, I assume it concerns all minerals, that it will affect the Republic in a number of other commodities that are not mentioned. I'm from Vysočina, and I know it was a huge job after 1990, people were doing almost a slap in the rock mines. Many of them went bankrupt. I suppose that's part of it, too. I would say that as a question to the Minister. They are usually very poor regions. Today, progress, technological development, and more and more are somewhere else in big cities. But this really isn't what it used to be in the past and the last century, the dream business. No way. For the next one. We know how dramatic the effects of surface, but also deep mining, and it was visible in coal, but it is not mentioned in other matters, uranium mining. Gigantic piles in Příbramsko, as there is a problem right now, how to remove them, whether there will be a tender or not, which way is better. And in the event of such excavation and destruction of a pile that would require hundreds of thousands of movements of trucks per single pile, and how it will burden the environment, how it will make people's lives miserable. This means that there are huge amounts of consequences everywhere. In this situation, take increased amounts of money to heal the state in these regions, where the greatest unemployment happens to be. If you look at the latest stats, where is it? It's Karvina - between 11 and 12 percent. So when Mr Sobotka here is talking about how superb we are and we can argue on one methodology, as we discussed in one debate with Minister Mládek, if according to one methodology it's only 5.1, according to another 6.2, I warn you that in Karvina it's - I don't know if 10, 11.5 or 11.8, don't take my word for it. The other is the bridge. When you look at the development of the past, the present and the future in these regions, you see enormous burdens. When you start analyzing, for example, the regional gross domestic product, as it stagnates or declines, you suddenly see regions carry this burden with them for decades. The government, on the one hand, irresponsiblely spends money, recruits officials. It completely fills the basic axiom of the crisis approach when a crisis occurs in society. Economists will tell you that when there is a crisis, even if there is much left-wing government, the first to pay for it, and the most to pay for it, are the poorest. It's absurd. And even after you tax the rich and tax the property, you nationalize the property, but it always pays the poorest. I would bring it to the level of the regions, and it's starting to apply again. Gentlemen of the YES movement for the Ústí Region, I am sorry, a year ago you had a sympathetic attitude on this matter. Now I'm not surprised if you really represent your constituents, so I don't know anymore. We will support the motion to dismiss, to return to the recast. I don't know if there's a chance, but I'm not suggesting it, but an extension. What I would definitely want all the committees to be sent to will be given economic analyses, in which it will be, what money will be, as it will be after redistribution, even if this increase - it will heal more, the municipalities will remain the same, but you know that in all commodities the remediation of the consequences in the regions will grow, that is, in absolute proportion, when it comes to it, the regions will have less and less money even at low inflation, but it is true. And also an analysis of how it will turn out to all mining industries throughout the country. I hope the Ministry of Industry and Trade had this processed after Babišův's ad hoc ideas. If it didn't, let's make it quick. I would consider it a gamble to let this be discussed in second and third readings if such analyses did not exist. I regret that the mere extraction of more money into the bottomless state register is simply preferred. I'd take it if the Upper Law amendment had finally come. We have been waiting in vain for a number of months to give people confidence after you have discussed, I hope, a amendment to the Mining Act, where not only mining but also shale gas research would be prohibited. You know, after this year's climate laps in our country, great drought, that our representation will have to deal more with the issue of drinking water, groundwater and water in the Czech Republic. And letting technology like that in here? The entire vast areas of Beroun are completely unnecessary, Berounska, Pardubicka, Hradecka. I don't know where else other gas-kickers would go just because, for some political reasons, you don't want to ban this clear and completely inappropriate technology for the Czech Republic and give people elementary assurance that atrocities will not take place in their homes. So I would ask for at least, I don't know, which is the guarantee committee, but, of course, this is part of the economic committee's agenda, this issue. I believe that this should certainly be addressed by the Committee on the Environment, which is a minimum. [[15.50 hours]] Obviously, there are other committees, budget, because this whole thing came about as an effort to make somebody else's money, but those two committees are the absolute minimum, where it should also be discussed properly with the analyses that I mentioned here. Members from the Ústí Region, from the Moravian-Silesian Region for YES, I would call on them, if they really want to think about the future of these so burdened and affected regions, to behave differently. Or not, but at least tell the voters the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u23	I thank Mr Laudát. Before I give the floor to the Minister with priority rights, first of all, Mr Martin Novotný, with a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u24	Colleagues and colleagues, it'll be a real point of fact. I came in late to discuss this point, and now I've soaked up the atmosphere, and I remembered that it was me, some x-months ago, who pointed out here when reading the budget, that it was remarkable how a number appeared in it, and then I talked about it from the point of view of budgeting methodology, that it is absolutely unprecedented to place that number in that budget without the legislation in force at the time. Colleagues here have said a very simple thing in long words. On the basis of that figure, there was probably some phase of negation, I don't know who with whom, and perhaps expert analysis, on the justification of the figure that has moved very far down, on that level the justification has not changed much since then in the Houses of the Press. I just want to join my colleagues, who have spoken long before me, with a brief banal statement that we will definitely continue to ask questions on the Economic Committee, what are the technical reasons that this number is not a few hundred percent higher at the moment, but that it is exactly what it is. I think that's what all the conventions of the law deserve. At the same time, I would say that in what chapter will the Finance Minister be able to increase some number by 100 percent? There are not many such examples. I didn't do it myself when I did city budgets very often. So the success is pretty big, but without any reason why it's 100 percent, I can't imagine voting for that number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u25	I thank Mr Novotný for his point of view. Now with priority rights, Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u26	In principle, I also have a factual point. I would like to confirm Mr Laudát's words that I have not been the initiate of the ten times, but I would also like to say with all humility that I am putting forward a proposal which I stand for and which came up after a long meeting, so I will not turn myself away from it, from what I am putting forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u27	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask the minister how much he's got there this year. My colleague Martin Novotný said, he talked about it in plenary. I have consulted this amount on the Committee on Budgets in very detail when discussing the State Budget for 2015, asking about it. Back then, the Treasury staff with a smile told me it was such a gray zone. I said, and I stand by the fact that the grey zone doesn't belong in the state budget. So probably the raise that was a plus, I think there was some 520 million, now don't take my word for it, but it was over half a billion. He didn't apply the new law. When we consulted here last September, October and November, the chairman of the Budget Committee will certainly remember that, then the Deputy Minister of Finance just said that it was a grey zone and that it would certainly be done, that the money would flow into the state budget from July onwards. I think the reality will be that it will remain the same, roughly the same number as in 2013 and there will be no increase of half a billion. I want to say that, as part of the legislative process, I would like it to go to the Committee on Budgets because of the budgetary implications. I think we're gonna have a debate about the division. When the state raises taxes and charges because it has the character of a tax, I don't think a full 100 percent increase should go into the state budget. I think we can still have a debate about increasing whether it is not too little ambitious to leave the incomes of municipalities at the same level. Now we will see what will be the response to Mr Kučera's explanation and speech. But I think there's an increase of roughly 400 or over 400 million, that it doesn't have to end up all in the state budget, that part of it should get the municipalities, and I think part could get the county. I'd consider it useful. So I'm just saying that I'd like to hear about it on the budget committee, too, about the division. [[Mr President draws attention to the time.]] I would certainly leave the professional issue of the Upper Law to the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much hate for my inquiry into the Minister to be here. I didn't ask how it's dividing between the community and the state, or the county, because I think it's going to be quite a broad discussion on this subject. But I really don't know about the information that originally it's an increase for renting space that's been considered ten times, and it ended up double. That kind of irritates me, 'cause the shootout's huge. I wonder how this matter came about, for what purpose it was presented for discussion, of course in the government, and then it became the double. It really upsets me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u31	I thank Mr Adamc. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u32	Thank you for the floor. A complex role not only for the rapporteur but for the former Minister and the former Chairman of the Economic Committee. That's kind of how it works in me. And now I'm going to say something that I would say completely at the end of this standard. I think it is crucial that we know before we definitively decide on this amendment, the conclusions that concern both the updated energy concept and, in particular, the decision on limits. Because if it goes beyond the limits, of course it will have an impact on this law, i.e. And the revenue for the state, for the municipalities, will be different than if it doesn't benefit from limits. There's a lot more to the context from my point of view. I do not want to interrupt the legislative procedure here in any way, but I think that at some second reading, in those analyses that will certainly be required in the various committees, there should probably be some slight suspension of negotiations on the basis of an agreement rather than here in the Rules of Procedure, so that we know what the Government's decision on the limits on brown coal mining in northern Bohemia is, because we do not yet know this. We are only informed that this will happen in some relatively short time. So in order to override maybe in some of the speeches to other discussions on analysis, etc., I think it has to be clear what the limits will look like for the analysis. That is certainly how I, as rapporteur, will encourage us to have such an analysis on the Economic Committee or other committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u33	Thank you to the rapporteur. With another factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u34	Thank you for the floor. I think the rapporteur's words sound reasonable in this regard, i.e. The concourse should be clear, it should be seen whether or not the limits will be broken, whether or not the mining will continue. This, of course, depends on the future revenues of the state budget. I understand that. I'm just asking why this isn't really happening now, why the decisions are passing. Because the government is constantly delaying the mining limit decision. Now it's been postponed a third time, I think. I don't want to be wrong. [[16.00 hours]] And I would like to point out that this year, I believe, the government approved a state energy concept, in which I think it should be clear, at least clear in the concept of what will happen to the surface extraction of brown coal. That means yes, I agree with what the rapporteur said, let's definitely do it this way. Secondly, I ask why this is not the case at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u35	I thank Mr Kučer. Another duly signed up is Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u36	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Let me say a few words, too. I'm a member of the Ústí Region, I'm a representative of Most. And I am glad that Members of our Ústí Region are performing here in particular. I would like to thank Mr Kučer, Mr Kádner and my colleague Jirk Dolejš. I must say that I really agree with them, and even though Mr Kučera and I have different opinions about breaking the limits at the ČSA mine, I think he said what this amendment to the Upper Law is preparing, and he said it very well. This brings nothing for the Ústí Region, unfortunately even less money. I would just like to say that I am very sorry that many of you have not read the proper, proper explanatory report. No wonder it's about 40 pages. However, I would like to say that this explanatory memorandum states that the possibility of an increase will be reflected in operating costs, i.e. mainly in wage resources - the redundancies of employees. I must say that here in the explanatory memorandum it is also said that coal prices are long-term bound by contracts, so this increase will not be reflected in coal prices, but will be borne by the operating costs of these companies. And where will they take it? Especially in wage costs. It is further stated that the situation for mining companies will be monitored and the increase in payments will be reflected. Don't be mad at me, we're discussing a law amendment, we're not discussing a plan. The bridge has the highest unemployment rate in the Czech Republic. I apologise through Mr President Mr Laudát - we have the highest unemployment in the long term. Now, thanks to this novel, we will be releasing other people. I would just like to say further that in the Ústí Region the industry is oriented as heavy and it is mainly because brown coal has been mined there since the beginning of the 20th century. Therefore, the Ústí Region is mainly oriented towards heavy industry. We've been talking here since 1991, we have set limits on coal mining, and we're talking about how we're going to continue. Nobody knows. No one's been able to answer how to do it in that time. I have to say, then come up with an alternative that we're gonna give the miners a couple of crowns, and we're talking 800, a thousand people tops, that's ridiculous. We're talking about 6,000 people losing their jobs. Ten thousand people aren't employed in Most, and we're just helping. I would just like to add an example of a government procedure that I do not understand. How can we approve updating the state energy concept if raw materials policy is not discussed? After all, everyone knows that raw material policy is to be discussed first, and on this basis we can approve a state energy concept. Why are we doing everything backwards? I just see it as the irresponsibleness of government towards the citizens of this country. Just let me make a few notes. Unfortunately, the Ústí Region has historically helped the whole Czech Republic, namely Czechoslovakia, and has always been only married from this region. Now that you're here to help us, you're doing nothing but stomping on us again!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We will continue the debate. With a point of fact, Mr Laudát is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I was really saying that every time someone does something with a pardon, the weakest always gets away with it. And here I would remind Margaret Thatcherová's almost corny motto today, because that's exactly the case: as long as it moves, we're mining or looting or charging it, we're taxing it. When it stops moving, we'll start subsidizing. And here today's mining companies, we're hearing from the Prime Minister's mouth how bad they are, how the government is going to sit there dramatically - but in reality, what's he doing? He wants to marry from these most affected areas. And when it starts to kneel, they start giving, I don't know, 600 million. Are you really gonna get that hundred or how much extra money is worth to you for the state cashier? And I'm sorry, I took that they're always overreacting, or maybe it's about a tenth of a percent, my colleague. It's Karvina, it's a bridge, and I don't know, I may have switched the order, but these are always two of the most distinctive red or orange spots on the color maps of unemployment, and it's been going on since the beginning of the decline and the demise of the transformation of the heavy industry in some cases. And you really see this attitude right here, and it's like I don't want to say what's on the pot, this behavior. We've heard about regional politics this morning, and maybe I'll go over the limit, there's no time, then we're giving them prebends to build golf courses again, etc. etc. This is precisely government policy, unfortunately not just this one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now duly signed up for the debate is Mr Benda and Mr Hájek will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not from the North Bohemia Region, and I will not look at the bill in terms of the impact it will have on mining companies, but I would like to look at it from a more legal point of view, and why I will then propose that we order the bill into the constitutional law committee. There are two major problems. The fee of this scale - and this has already been said in the previous debate - has the character of a tax. I think it's pretty obvious. And our Constitution in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms says that taxes and charges can only be determined on the basis of law. The idea presented to us by the Minister, I know that it is based on the original concept, but from the original concept approved in 1992 in a completely different legal system, in a completely different situation, from which we have moved dramatically, that the law quite frankly describes almost everything in detail, including how much is paid from one hectare, the exact distribution between municipalities and the state in individual commodities. The only thing he forgets to describe is how much the fee, virtually. the tax is, and it leaves this to the government's orders. It only determines the upper range that it can be a maximum of 10 per cent. It is probably similar to what we would say: income tax is up to 50 per cent and the government is ordered to determine how much the taxpayer will pay. I think that in no way would we go through with such a provision at the Constitutional Court, and I fear that even in this case we do not have a chance to pass the constitutional test and that we will need not to leave the rates on government regulations, but to put it directly into law. [[16.10 hours]] Moreover, the reason why the government claims that it should have the power to order the mining fees of the government's regulation that this is more flexible is very unconvincing to me. If anything is to be as stable as possible, it is the rates of taxes, the fees for mining minerals. Those aren't the things I'm gonna say to myself tomorrow: I'm gonna go dig up a piece of brown or black coal or make some profit, and I'm gonna close it the day after tomorrow. That's the thing we're planning for five, ten, fifteen years in advance. On the contrary, there should be maximum stability of what the state selects and wants to choose to be able to plan for years ahead, and not say we need to be the most flexible to be able to adjust ahead. I think that's really a mistake. And that is why I think that the government regulation in this case is an extremely inappropriate instrument. Moreover, I honestly say, I think the Minister should have presented it at the same time as the proposal that the Rules of Procedure are not respected here, but I will not propose to interrupt the first reading, even though I might have done it as malice, but I will not do it and I will believe that we will somehow agree on how this is to be done, but I suppose that the government regulation should apply as soon as the law starts to apply, because the law repeals the decrees on which the current fees were levied. This means that either we would be completely free of charges, which I assume nobody wants, or the regulation must take effect equally with the law, then pursuant to § 86 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies was a duty of the Ministry, respectively. governments, if the whole government is approving when it comes to government regulations, present such a proposal at the same time so that we know exactly what we are talking about. Because here we have some relatively long and comprehensive explanatory report that counts with approximately twice the increase. The problem is, if we leave it to the government, the range is up to ten times the increase. And I don't know if the Treasury Secretary is coming, that he needs to give out another billion, and after we pass the bill, he suddenly comes in and says -- the increase won't be double, but he's going to be five or eight times. And we're all going to watch and say, we're going to discuss some bill here, we're counting some implications, we're calculating, we're thinking about what it's going to do to the regions, and suddenly we're giving the government a chance to go this high dramatically. This is the first reason for which I believe that we should really consider the bill in the constitutional law committee, and I will then propose it, and that we should consider together with the Ministry whether it is really right for this type of charge to be imposed on the government or to be directly in the law. I don't think there's any problem filling it in, because the regulation is undoubtedly done. The second point I wanted to draw attention to is based on the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government. With permission, I quote him briefly: "From the proposal presented, in particular from his reasoning, it is clear that the proposed increase in revenues from the payment of individual types of minerals acquired will not be applied on a flat-rate basis, but will only burden certain sectors. The exemption is intended to apply to coal, brown coal used in deep water, radioactive minerals, oil and flammable natural gas. The Court of Justice of the European Union has already interpreted the concept of public aid widely in 1959, in the same way that, as with the subsidy, it is a cash payment or in kind granted from public funds to support a particular undertaking, but unlike the subsidy, the concept of aid does not include only positive transactions, but also various forms of intervention, which reduce the costs normally borne by the company's budget and which thus have the same nature and effect as the subsidies. Therefore, an increase in the revenue from the payments made from the minerals obtained, which does not apply across the board to the entire relevant market for the acquisition of minerals, may also be a breach of public aid law on the grounds that the organisations receiving minerals excluded from the proposed increase will benefit.' I'm not quoting any more parts. It is noted that the crisis itself - and this is the long-term principle of the European Union - cannot allow national support, even in this form of national support of a negative nature, virtually. not to introduce a fee, and that it would therefore be necessary, first, to draw up other justifications for this, not for the black coal crisis and the brown coal at the top, but probably also to request the European Commission's notification of whether this type of increase in the fee and its failure to increase for certain commodities is in line with Community law and is in line with the prohibition of illegal aid. As far as I know, such notification is not available, but I can, of course, be mistaken and may be misled by the Minister, I'd be happy to let that happen. If there is no such notification, then I think that precisely in connection with the fact that we should regulate directly in the law, or at least see government regulations in advance, we would need to have the European Commission's notification at the same time that this is not illegal aid. So much for my brief speech on the proposal, and then you can register my proposal to discuss the bill in the constitutional law committee, not as a guarantee committee, but as a committee that should assess the legal side, not the substantive one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have, of course, noted your proposal, in any case, I will invite you to propose the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee. Mr Laudát is now reporting with a point of fact, and then Mr Hájek, duly signed up for the debate, will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, when you see this government's dramatic exit meeting headed by Prime Minister Sobotka to one of these regions, which we are talking about in particular today, but it fits here that it really concerns the whole Republic, a number of localities, just remember that it looks like drum music behind my back, but at least one of them would have to sit here. That's one big break that's behind my back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u43	Thank you. Mr Hájek now, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u44	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. We are discussing the amendment to the Mining Act - the adjustment of fees from extracted minerals and from the mining area. There is also one sentence in the upper law, and it is said that mineral wealth is the property of the Czech Republic, which means all of us citizens. That means every citizen should be involved in what we're getting out of the acquired mineral. That's one. Secondly, this novel was made really carefully. Carefully to really minimize the impact on the mining industry. It's true, I'm black coal, or I was in coal, and it's true that this industry is currently in crisis. This concerns a number of other mining sectors. Brown coal has a huge advantage in the fact that its price is not on the stock exchange, the price is constant. The coal went through incredible fluctuations. Today, its price has to be twice as low against 2008. We have privatized the mining industry in the Czech Republic since 1989. I think today it's too late to cry over spilled milk, but I had the opportunity to be in Germany in my former profession at the RAG company, which remained a state mine. Germany decided to gradually dampen its extraction, and to process a 10-year program -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u45	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I note that none of the members of the government are present. Unfortunately, I'm forced to abort for five minutes. Personally, I think the Minister has merely gone to the bathroom, but I will interrupt the meeting for five minutes before one of the members of the government is present. [[Minister Mládek is coming to the meeting room.]] The minister is coming. Thank you, Minister, in that case we can continue the negotiations. Ambassador, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u46	I hope to pick up where I left off. The state-owned company RAG really decided to shut down over the course of ten years, and of course to dampen this mining industry, but complexly with a password, I may have said it once before that we will take care of every miner. If I simplify it, the whole novel is just about brown coal. Only brown coal, where there is a doubling of the price or payment of the fees for the extracted tonne. These coal mining companies, of course, because the prices are stable, they generate profits, and I think it's said by a fellow Member here, it doesn't touch the employees. I was, I guess, visiting the North Bohemia mines in May or June, I spoke with Mr. CEO and they really are ready at the moment, or they have all the budget set up, all the business to tighten this double payment, but they need to be sure. They need to be sure whether he's gonna dig or not. In northern Bohemia there is a supply of 900 million tons of coal. 900 million tons of coal. We have been dealing with the crisis in Ukraine recently, and today the crisis is drowning out by the crisis of migration. We were discussing what happens when we are largely dependent on gas imports, oil from Russia. I think every state should be happy and proud to have its mineral resources, and we have 900 million tons of coal here. From my point of view, I think it is necessary, and I appeal here to the Minister to decide that the government should decide, because mining is not, today coal is no longer loaded with picks and shovels and wheels. It's a business where you need long-term planning. These are challenging, long years of upcoming events. I've been in place, and really, it's about those owners, virtually. coal companies, they really need to decide. It was too late yesterday. We've got the White Mine, we've got the White Mine, we've got ČSA mine, we all know that at Bílina mine, it doesn't concern any barracks crashing or residents. At the ČSA mine it is more complicated, there is the village Horní Jiřetín. But I certainly appeal to the government's decision to really, perhaps, follow the example of Mr Hanák, who said you're unlucky, the residents - I think that was said quite forcefully. But really, once again I say, mineral wealth is the property of all of us citizens of the Czech Republic and we really should appreciate that we can be raw material independent of Russia in this commodity. This is a fundamental or very important argument for me at this point in the geopolitical situation. On the other hand, breaking the limits does not mean that it will be mined in that place. Because the upper law dictates that a conflict of interest must be resolved before the mining activity begins. That means coal society has to deal with everyone. If one person, owner of property or land does not agree, the Czech Mining Authority will not allow the mining activity. Here it was said from the mouths of the North Bohemia MPs on the right hand side that the state was draining the North Bohemia region. I don't think that's true. It is true that the amendment leaves this law, virtually. preserves the fees for extracted minerals at the current level, because from 75 percent it decreases to 78 percent when I multiply it by two, so I'm at 76 percent, i.e., 1 percent as if it were optically or mathematically extra. On the other hand, it has to be said that the money to be spent is money from coal companies that are going to pay off the state, i.e. The Ministry of Finance will then redistribute between the MIT and the Ministry of Environment. I assume my colleague Kučera is familiar with the program, respectively. with actions, revitalization actions that the Ministry of Industry and Trade does in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. The Minister may supplement me, I do not know the figures from my head because I am focusing on the Moravian-Silesian Region, but these events are for three regions: Moravian-Silesian, Karlovarsky and Ústecký. And it's for real, and I agree here, that the money goes especially to these regions, and they're already going now. And it's a question for the future, if there were to break those limits, so that it would really be linked to how the RAG's experience is going, when the real money that the company has acquired, then it gradually invested in creating new jobs, because so that, hand in hand, the decline of the mining industry is being supplemented by activities in other sectors. Maybe incoherently, if I end this, I'd ask the minister to take it seriously, because mining needs to be sure, people need to be sure whether the government decides one way or the other. I think we really need to hit the table and decide. Thank God we're not in the situation - I remembered when mining in northern Bohemia was being handled, so pioneers came with bouquets in their hands, brass, ready buses, pioneers handed out carnations, got on buses, played brass, and all went to Khanov. I'm sure that's not gonna happen tonight. But it is about giving mining companies the opportunity to discuss with owners so that they really have the opportunity to say yes, we have done everything we can to do, or unfortunately, we have not convinced our citizens in the locality and we cannot benefit. So much for my side. Thank you. God bless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your contribution. I note a few factual points here. First is Mr Kučera, then Mrs Havlová and others. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u48	Thank you for the floor. I have to join my colleague Laudát, behind me you really see how the government, forgive me, doesn't give a damn about the Ústí Region. But allow me to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Hájek. I had some things ready. His speech was so complicated, so long and complicated that he said something at the beginning, then he disproved it himself. However, it is true that reserved minerals are the property of the state. That's what I think we agree on, and that mining companies should take money from the state for the mineral that they earn. I think we all agree on that. We even agree that the amount they have paid to this day was not the amount we all imagined. I think there's really a general consensus. But where we disagree, where I break up with Minister Andrej Babiš, where I break up with Minister Mládek, is how the money flows into the state budget and how it flows into the municipalities. It's just that the ratio of money that flows into the state budget is significantly larger than it flows into the municipalities. I can agree with the previous speaker that, of course, there's some 40 percent tied to going back to pay for the mining damage. But for God's sake, the mining damage is what the company has a duty to destroy! How does it benefit the development of these municipalities? How will it benefit the development of the region? No way! Nothing. They're just gonna put up some golf course again, or they're gonna drop off some trees. That's all. And I say we change the ratio between what goes to the state budget and what goes to the community. For the benefit of the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mrs Havlová, with her factual point. Mrs Aulická will be prepared with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u50	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very brief. The upper law isn't just about breaking limits, it's not about breaking limits at all. It's not just about prices, but what my previous speaker said is also about mining damage. Today it is exactly 14 days since they approached me and had a meeting with me representatives of the Association for the Rights of Citizens of the Community representing Karvina, Dětmarovice, Orlová and other surrounding municipalities where mining damage is actually caused both by shocks and coal mining itself. And this issue fell completely out of the law, even though this association made comments on the commentary procedure, and they were not accepted. I would therefore like to say to the Minister that when the second reading is again, it may wonder how many amendments there will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u51	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Aulická. Mr Laudát will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u52	Thank you for the floor. Let me be more factual. You know, I'm a mining college guy, and I think I know a lot about the coal and the way and the mining. Let me just say that when we're talking about coal at the ČSA mine, we're talking about the finest coal in Europe. And so far, we, or the government, are actually in a position to write off 300 billion. The coal that wouldn't be mined, shall we say it's written off? 300 billion? Who's gonna take it to the hump? Sorry, I'm a member of the government, I wouldn't take it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u53	I'm sorry. I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, and I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to calm down in the hall so we can hear what's being lectured here. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u54	I'll be quick and brief. Let me just say that this coal from the Army is dependent on the heat plants. The energy mix just needs to be done, and they can't even imagine how they would work without it, because neither the government, nor the previous, is able to say what they're supposed to do, what they're supposed to do, what they're supposed to use, whether gas or other alternatives, and how much they have to put into it because they're not millions, they're billions. Unfortunately, no one is talking to them about it, and no one is able to talk to them about it properly. Let me just say that I would like to add here to the motion to reject this amendment. If this rejection fails, I propose that the Social Committee discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u55	Thank you. After it is possible to propose the commandments to the committees, sign in, Madame. Now, therefore, with a factual remark from Mr Laudát, after which Mr Seďa, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I didn't want to perform anymore, but Mr. Hájek's performance gave me an incentive to do so. I am not prepared to debate everything that he said here, however, because I thought that we would discuss two things here, firstly that Babiš broke the law on the state budget, and secondly that there is simply taxation and withdrawal of money from the poor region, with the fact that the state wants to heal in a ridiculous and undignified way, and on the other hand the municipalities will remain the same money, that means less in proportion, which is unacceptable to me, and if nothing else, and you probably declare the commandments to committees etc. etc., so it should change so that municipalities should have, if this is an analysis, mining companies can take it, so to those municipalities in the affected areas, I'm a little bit skeptical of the regions that they get more money. But after all, I would say one thing here, such a saying that the mineral wealth belongs to all the people and to every man. But, you know, sometimes someone pays for the wealth, someone benefits from it. It is not true what Mr Hájek said that the regions are not being sucked out. If you look in the long term at what gross domestic product has been created regionally in these areas, and you look at how people benefit from it in terms of wages, in terms of employment, you can see that, on the contrary, the Moravian-Silesian and Ústí region are heavily vacuumed. And the fact that we're just here arguing about some regional programs and all that, you know, we should do a completely different policy. I said it here this morning, and what's being operated, regional is simply the instrument of European subsidies that is unfortunate and bad. So, through the President, Mr Hájek, they are sucking. [[Attention on time.]] I'll get ready for it, and I'll show you the numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u57	I'm sorry. Thank you for respecting the time, Mr. Ambassador. Now, therefore, with Mr Seďa's factual remark and Mr Vozka will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to say by your means to Mr Kučer that neither the current government nor the previous governments have coughed on the Ústí Region, as they do not forget the Moravian-Silesian Region and perhaps other regions. I come from the Zlín Region and there are regions with high unemployment. And I would also like the government to help these regions, in these areas, in these municipalities, as it helps the Ústí Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u59	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Vozka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It doesn't give me more than some of the inaccuracies that have fallen here, I'm partially trying to fix them. Here it was said that the miner created sufficient means to eradicate, and therefore the Ministry should not spend these resources to destroy as well. There are two kinds of extermination. One elimination for environmental damage prior to the privatisation of coal companies is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Environment, which agree on solutions and timetables etc. And then there's the part that's funded by the miner's funds, and these funds are allocated on the basis of a proper plan of openings and preparations for conquest, and they expect the miner to wipe out behind him. So the resources that are created in this way and poured into the center are used to eliminate the consequences before the privatization of coal companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u61	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Hájek. After that, with a factual remark, Mr Kučera. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u62	Good afternoon again. I would like to respond here to the information from my colleagues on the right, that the Minister of Finance was wrong about 600 million in the state budget in order to plan this amount for this year and she will not de facto be, because we have not yet approved this amendment. Here on the website of the Czech Social Democratic Party I downloaded one information from 5. 1. 2010. Let me quote: "A monthly preliminary publication of the state budget deficit figure of 190,2 billion. CZK cannot be compared objectively and correctly in the time series with the state budget deficits achieved in 2007 and earlier. If we used budgetary rules and methodology to define the state budget deficit, both in force in 1993 and 2007 would reach a real state budget deficit of 223.9 billion in 2009. Kč. Topolánkův's government reached a one-off accounting operation in February 2009, when the government's revenue was involved in the rest of the ministries' reserves of 31.7 billion. Kč. The same accounting trick was used by Minister Kalousek in 2008 when 47 billion were dissolved. reserves, etc., with a real deficit of 67 billion. Kč. Topolánkův's government's accounting tricks cloud the true extent of the state budget deficit in 2008-2009. This is a one-off unreplicable accounting operation that does not solve the structural problem. In 2010, similar creative procedures will no longer be possible, as the reserves collected at the time of the ČSSD government were completely dismantled by this procedure." So much for how the right-wing government worked with the state budget. We're here criticizing the Minister of Finance for $600 million, where tens of billions were juggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u63	Thank you. Another one with a point of fact? Mr Kučera cancels his point of order. The other is Mr Stanjura with a factual remark. Mr Laudát will be prepared with a factual remark. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you once again to be quiet in the hall. If you have something important, go to the lobby and tell yourself to understand. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u64	Thank you for the floor. I will not respond to the last performance, because today we are not really discussing the final account of 2008 or 2009, but I want to respond to the speech of a fellow Member from the Zlín Region, who says: We are in bad shape too, which is what the government is giving to Ústí, and she could also think of us. I don't think we should envy those who are being helped. Mining is evidently in the Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region. But if we want to help municipalities in the Zlín Region, for example, we'll have a chance today. Item number 7 - budgetary determination of taxes. I remind our amendments, both the ODS and the TOP 09, which add a share of taxes to all municipalities. All municipalities, that means in every region. And there, Mr Seďa, through the management meeting, you will also have the opportunity to help municipalities in your electoral region. I myself am curious when it comes to the third reading, as you will vote on the amendment. I firmly believe that, like me, and that together we will add to all municipalities and cities in all regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u65	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Laudát, with a factual remark, and after that, Mr Martin Novotný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u66	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond to a colleague named Hájek. There's no way the right said he was wrong. I am on the budget committee and there has been repeatedly, and I think that even in plenary, there I am not certain that I can somehow point out that it cannot put in the state budget items for which there is no support of the law. So there's no way this was a mix-up. That was just arrogance. We can do whatever we want. And I forgot to say, nowadays it's customary to say cost and benefit. And if we burden regions, either by mining or by building heavy infrastructure, it has been customary and polite in developed countries for decades to pay for costs, the cost, to give benefits. You don't just give - I understand that you have somewhere to raise money for the biofuels, so you're enjoying the most affected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u67	Now, with Mr Martin Novotný's point of fact, Mr Seďa will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u68	I'm wasting your time, colleagues, just because I'm gonna say the same thing I used to say when I was talking about the state budget. And I also respond to my colleague Hájek. There is no doubt that we can have a long debate here on how the budget is witchcrafted by these or those accounting operations. I don't know if you were right about what you said. It would be beyond factual remarks to explain and describe how it is enchanted now, i.e. how some of the numbers presented by Minister Babiš are achieved. But one thing is quite clear. So far, it has always been true when establishing a budget that where there are some variables given by law, it does not touch it and that the calculation is done simply according to current legislation. I was saying at the time that we could get it all loosening up and maybe cast tax revenues into the state budget, as if the tax rates were double what they really are at the time. Indeed, in terms of budgetary rules, it is a completely unprecedented procedure, which completely misses any other way of enchantment with the results of the state budget, which may sometimes happen and happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u69	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Seďa, with a factual remark, and after that, Mr Kořenek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u70	Thank you, Mr President. You could tell me about the car and Mr. Stanjura about the goat, through you. Point 7, determination of taxes, as I recall, concerns an increase in the budgets of the regions, because we have discussed the budgets of the municipalities here several times. And I will certainly consider the amendment that will fall. Let me give you a specific example of what I had in mind. Slovak engineers bought one machine shop in the Ústí Region, and, lo, it was found that workers in these machinery spaces, which were actually before the crash, had one third higher pay than in our country. Certainly, Mr Stanjur, by your means, Mr President, you will not be able to compensate for the budgetary determination of taxes. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u71	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Kořenek, with a factual remark, and after that, Mr Kalousek, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Our Zlín Region needs primarily good transport infrastructure, because we do not have it to this day. It needs municipalities to have a good transport structure so that people have a job, that there are investors there who, without how accessible the area is, do not come to have a job, and especially to have salaries comparable to the whole Czech Republic. See how people are paid in the Wallachia region and in the Zlín region. That'll help these people. That's what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u73	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, after whom Mr Kučera. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u74	I'm just talking to my previous speakers. When Mr Seďa said that the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes will apply to the regions and not to municipalities, I would not like to give the public the impression that we have the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions and then we have the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes for the municipalities. We have one law that divides three shared taxes - corporate and natural persons tax and VAT - between state funds, regional funds and municipal funds. One law. Just like when Minister Babiš convinced us that this is the excise duty on biofuels, this is the excise duty on tobacco, and this is the excise duty on something else, he also had four excise tax laws flying around. No. Please, there is only one excise tax law, and there will be tobacco, fuel, biofuels and alcohol. So she's in the law, both the goat, Mr. Ambassador, through Mr. President, and the wagon. And when I hear the need to compare salaries in some regions, I would just like to point out that we are still - as I hear you so much, I fear that it will not take long - but we are still a country without wage regulation and wage levels in the non-public sector to determine the labour market, not your wishful thinking or government tables. I'm gonna pray it lasts for a while.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u75	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Kučera and Mr Urban have the first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u76	Thanks for the word. I would like to point out to my previous speaker, Mr Seďa, that this debate is not really about the level of wages in each region. It's about what we take from one county and what we return to it. That's what we're talking about here. And we're taking more from this county than we're giving it back. We take more from the Ústí Region than we give it back. That's what I'm talking about. I wish everyone to have wages that correspond to the level of their work so that all regions have a good time. But I'm pointing out that we're taking more money from the Ústí Region and ending up in Babišův's beets. That's where he ends up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u77	Thank you. Now, Mr Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u78	I like all of you, so I'm a little kinky about what I'm about to say. I don't want to educate you, but this law really isn't about the amount of wages in the Zlín Region or the budgetary determination of taxes or the solution to mining damages or the limits on whether or not they should break. That's not what the law says about it. And the other things you're talking about. I know this is what the House does. And also because I love you, of course I have no choice but to tolerate it. But look, the limits are in the hands of the government and the Czech Mining Authority. I said I wanted the limits to be decided before this law was finally passed, because there is a connection. But the law doesn't solve whether they should or shouldn't break. Mine damage. Every company that benefits today must take money into a special account, which then serves to make the damage they have done to the mining to be dealt with. And it has nothing to do with it. It has nothing to do with this law. [[16.50 hours]] So let's focus on whether the proposal has produced double on the basis of some analysis, whether it is the corresponding amount, how it will be divided between state, municipalities, citizens, etc. And whether this law is to be passed before the limits are to be decided or the limit decisions are to be incorporated into the state energy concept. Well, that's just my little maybe big request, because I'm tired of sitting at the newsstand table and listening to the debate here about where the region is better or worse, and if you'll excuse your colleagues from the Zlín Region, if you want to join us in these engineering shops when there are miners in the Ústí Region who are taking something or pseudo-abuse. I'd like to go back to the law, please, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u79	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Gazdík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u80	Good afternoon. Although a colleague from the Zlín Region, I will really go to the general level. My dear colleague Mr Urban, through the Vice-President, said that this is indeed a Upper Law. And I think it's a lot more than that, Mr. Colleague. The law is a little symbolic and expresses how this government stands up to this country. She's taking something she can never return. At the expense of future generations. And he doesn't give a shit about the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u81	Thank you. Another with a point of fact - Mr Kalousek cancels it. In that case, Mr Marek Benda has a factual point to make. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u82	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Mr rapporteur, you forgot one thing about the bill. And that's what I've been pointing out, and I'd like us to talk about it. There's only a explanatory note twice that. We're zero to ten times here. This, I think, is a very important question, which undoubtedly belongs to this debate, because the explanatory memorandum is an important identifier for us, but it is not binding and is not part of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u83	Thank you. I am now not seeing any factual comment. In that case, Mr Petr Bendl is duly enrolled in the debate. He persevered, and now he gets the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've enjoyed all my two-minute openings. And I'm really going back to the matter, it means the upper law and its implications. As a person who was the mayor of the city of Kladno, who was affected by the closure of the mine, relatively fast - only because a large city named Prague was close to Kladno and Kladenska, which employed a part of the people who had to leave the mining industry, and also because we built and prepared a new industrial zone in Kladno, which now employs about five thousand people, this social impact was relatively eliminated. That is why I think that municipalities should be able to make funds out of extracted minerals, but they should also go to municipalities that are not directly concerned with the cadastrality. I will also say one experience, which is from the Central Bohemia Region, a former mine where the robber was mined, in Rynholc. There was a landfill, official, which was supplied by trucks that drove through municipalities and cities that had nothing at all of the charges for stored waste or the charges for extracted minerals. They were given to the village where the mine was. But affected by heavy transport etc. there are municipalities in its vicinity. That is why I am deeply convinced that the argument that Mr Stanjura and some across the political spectrum have been made here is that the region should also participate in the revitalization and promotion of the development of the area of the affected mining activity. And I think it's at the expense of the finances that he wants to swallow through Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš. [[Members are having fun, noise in the Chamber.]] There are arguments that often fall from the coalition of Members and Members' clubs and their representatives that you will do everything you can to preserve employment opportunities. Among other things, I have now been informed that - Minister Dienstbier, absent, shows that no one in the government cares very much, but thinks that another 15,000 refugees may come to the Czech Republic and publish this opinion. That's when we're talking about saving jobs in the North Bohemia Region, because the law has direct implications for the impact of people's chances of getting jobs in the Ústí Region or the North Bohemia Region, so the government is probably interested in something else right now. But all right, so be it. Maybe one of the ministers will explain it to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u85	I apologise, Mr Member, but again, I do not like to call on you, colleagues and colleagues, to be quiet, because it is not heard, it is not understood what is being lectured here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u86	About my own mining. I believe that although the Minister of Industry and Trade does not have a simple position, he should take responsibility and open up a debate about the possibility of breaking the limits of the ČSA mine. I've seen some government politicians drive to get photographed at a meeting with miners. But if they can really say something about it from the point of view of the future, they're missing. Yes, I mean Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš, who was allowed to take pictures there, but to tell us here what his opinion is, what he will assert, whether only Bílina, or even ČSA. I say for myself, I think it's the ČSA. That there should be sufficient compensation for people, of course, to whom it affects. But if the government doesn't have a programme prepared that would give those people in the region or give them a chance to get jobs, then it should simply consider this option and come up with what it intends for the future in this area as soon as possible. And submit it earlier. In this, I agree with my colleague Urban that the energy concept is to be presented here first and that the upper law is basically to fit in so that we may not subsequently have to change it or modify it according to how we will imagine the state's energy policy together in the future. The disposal of mining damage. My personal experience is that the state doesn't help much. And I'm saying this now as a man who has been mayor of Kladno for four years, where the mining damage of decades old, maybe almost a hundred years that no one has claimed to be, is a large number. There are dozens of mining works that aren't too mapped out. They're in the middle or near the housing estates. And the state doesn't take much part in it, rather doesn't care about it or says it doesn't have the funds to liquidate these mining damages. If we're talking about finance, then we should know that they should go to the disposal of mining damage. Even the old mine damage. To this day, it is not designed to be a clear policy even in this area. And I disagree with those who say that the liquidation of mining damage is not related to employment opportunities and the development of that territory. I am convinced that it is directly related, because in those places where there is no more mining, it is necessary to repair, revitalize, to bring them into line with the territorial plans. If there are development areas, help with them. [[17,00 hours]] And then there are the funds of cities and municipalities, regions, state or European funds. Symbiosis in the communication of municipalities, regions and states should certainly be found in some reasonable job opportunities for the future, giving some assurance of the development of the territory. They are regions in charge of wider planning, bringing together the concept of cooperation and communication of territorial plans of individual small towns and municipalities. It would be good for the regions to play a major role in this, because they will be more interested in the territory. They are also under greater political pressure from people to deal with those areas that need to be affected by mining activities and where the mining activity is gradually ending in order to revitalize the territories there. I know a number of such places where mining activities are no longer there and either there is a territory that can be assessed for environmental protection as really good, or there are also areas suitable for developing other jobs. We recently passed a law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund here together. We already have an amendment on the table, because it was discovered that we were right in the debate, that it would make it more difficult - those who voted for it - life not only for those who build their family houses in accordance with territorial plans, but also for a number of other things, including. for example, the construction of ponds, etc., which are related to the development of the territory after mining activities. I really wish common sense would prevail here. I am not in favour of rejecting this bill because I am deeply convinced that we are to bring this debate to an end as quickly and as soon as possible - I do not mean in minutes or hours or days - but I am not in favour of a similar bill coming here again, which we will argue about in half or three quarters of a year. We're gonna waste too much time on this. I ask only the Minister of Industry and Trade to present the energy concept as soon as possible, especially with regard to brown coal mining and breaking the limits in the Bílina region or ČSA mine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Kučera, who is duly enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u88	Thank you for the floor. I won't hold up much longer, just a few more sentences. There's one thing I'd like to point out that we haven't talked about here. More or less, it may seem quite trivial after the discussion, but I personally do not think so, and this is, as I have read from the amendment, the transfer of competences concerning old mining works from the Ministry of Environment to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I mean, I'm not entirely clear on this. Because she, as such, is accompanied by a person who is human. And old mining works become an integral part of the landscape, whether they are old quarrys, where they are absolutely unique biotopes, whether they are old pits, where unique animals live again. Personally, I still think that competence should remain on the side of the Ministry of the Environment, of course I would like to put forward the arguments to explain to me why the Ministry of the Environment should lose the competence and obtain it from the Ministry of Industry. I'm not entirely clear on this. I would very much like this law to be discussed in the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm registering for an application... Really. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u90	Thank you for the floor. I'll just specify to my colleague what's going on with the old mine parts. They are two categories - old mining works and abandoned mining works. So it's terminus technicus. Unfortunately, today legislation is such that the concern for these two types of water works is divided between two ministries. The old mining works consist of the Ministry of Environment, sanitation, and the one abandoned by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I think whatever ministry it is, it would be good to merge it under one, because there's a lot of confusion. The only difference between these two types of works is that one is known by the owner and the other is not. But other than that, it's old mines, like you said. But I have a personal experience very bad e.g. with damage to old mining works, e.g. in the surroundings of Jílový there are permanent falls of the same old mining works and nobody cares much about it. So I think it would be obvious that it would merge into one ministry, not to be divided like this. It doesn't matter if it's the MIT or the MIT, but this distribution isn't entirely happy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u92	I thank my predecessor, Mr Zemek, more or less. I agree with that. I think that is why it would be good if we had the opportunity to discuss the whole matter on the environmental committee and say whether or not this unification would be yes and under which the ministry would be more appropriate, i.e. I want this discussion to take place on that committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u93	Thank you. Now I'm not registering... I'm registering. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Is this a proper application for a debate? [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u94	Thank you for the floor. One of the first speakers to perform today - I apologize to my colleagues for for forgetting which - I already know, the rapporteur Urban did - he said: I also want those analyses if the rapporteurs insist. But these analyses make sense for us to process them when the limits are decided. I understand that. I consider that a reasonable approach. On the other hand, we're supposed to let it go, we're gonna get time for committees, and I don't know when the limits will be decided. So far, I'm not suggesting anything in a procedural manner, if the Minister has any comment. I think there's a point. When it decides on limits, it is the competence of the government, then it makes sense to make impact analyses, then it makes sense to plan somehow and to allow those who do business in this field to plan long-term, including how much fees will be paid, and including knowing the approximate extent of the mining, and we can also communicate with municipalities and regions about how much is expected if it goes through the tax increase and the fees, how much could it enrich their municipal or regional treasury. So for now, I'm just asking a rhetorical question, but of course, the procedural motion to interrupt until the time of the decision on the limits can be made. At this point, I am not doing this because I would ask the Minister to say something about it, and on that basis we would either decide to break it off or leave it on those committees. But even if the deadline was extended to 90 days, and that would have to be agreed by the Minister, we get to the date sometime around December 15th, when we should have a final second reading. And if we want to have some qualified amendments for, like, the money and the division, then when will the analysis be done? Such an impact analysis is certainly not done in a day or a week. So some timetable for how to combine it is really not an easy decision. And I don't want to criticize the government because I want to weigh all the arguments - employment, the environment, break through, break through... On the other hand, I want to say that the decision not to break - and I think it has to be said quite truthfully - does not mean that it will never benefit there. I very often hear the argument of opposers or supporters from both camps that the government should decide. Okay, well, when he decides positively about breaking, it's a clear decision. At the moment he doesn't decide on a complete or partial one, that doesn't mean that in five, eight, ten, twelve years, there will be another political representation, another economic situation, another energy situation, a security energy situation, so the pressure on this decision to know... Yes, in the event of a full breach of the limits, it is a true argument. In the case of partial or complete retention of limits, this does not mean that it will never break, because the situation can actually change in Europe, in the surrounding states, etc. [[17.10 hours]] At this point, it's not very easy to find a match in the upper law schedule, when basically, if we look at it and get the material a little thicker, it's just about the money. There I think it can wait, if we have 1,250, I don't know when the government sends us a budget, 1,300 billion spending, so increasing revenue by 400 to 500 million is certainly not something that would threaten the state budget if it didn't apply from 1 January 2016, in the volume of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Petr Bendl is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u96	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna say that the decision is even more complicated. The moment it's said that the limits will break, it's easier. When it is said that the limits will not break, people are said: you leave, you get some severance pay, you look for work elsewhere, so on the mines there are machines that are exceptional, unique, people who do with them aren't really on the labour market anymore. The moment the mine closes, restart it, the cost of it. In my opinion, this is more in the field of theory than in the field of real economic considerations. It's all the more complicated than that. I know because when the mines were closing, they were closing because gas appeared in them. Until then, the mines were, don't catch me by the word, gasless, there were no problems similar to those of Ostrava. But since the mining gas appeared there, huge investments needed to be made to protect the miners. And when it was calculated and calculated, it was found that what would be mined would not pay for the investment that needed to be done, so it was said that the mine was closing and that three and a half thousand people were quitting. And all the activities of the authorities of the work of cities and municipalities, regions and so on. This decision is much more complicated, I think, and it's not too much about the possibility of doing any further mining very quickly. I think from my point of view it's been for a very long time. And there is one more point in the energy concept.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u97	I'm sorry, your time, Mr. Ambassador. You've been logged in with a point of fact. [[Ask if anyone is registered after the honourable Member.]] There's no one after you, so if you report properly to the debate, you can proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u98	Thank you very much for being kind to everyone else. Last week, I don't know if anyone really noticed, but I suppose the Minister of Industry and Trade did, we weren't far from Blackout. We were buying electricity abroad. This is a situation that we should take extremely seriously, and all supporters of the atom must know that this is a debate for a relatively long time and that even timing of all things plays an important role in energy policy. The Minister of Industry and Trade should also take this into account. The situation was serious, it wasn't easy at all. At a time when such an event would occur repeatedly, it could mean a collapse of unsightly consequences, and therefore, maybe even the Minister of Industry, whether he would not have expressed himself either now or in the closing speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I therefore now see no one who has been entered into the debate. That's right. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the appellant or rapporteur will take the final floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you for the debate that has been held, which has been encouraging on a number of points, which has also said some misleading information, so I will try to respond to the debate. First of all, I would like to point out that we definitely intend for the municipalities to get at least the same amount of minerals as they have so far, plus they will get clearly extra from the village's mining space, because there is an increase in the fee from the mining area ten times and the total amount of money that the municipalities receive in this way is expected to increase from 14 million. 100 miles. Crowns. So it's going to rise 86 miles. Crowns. I take it seriously that there is a need to add government regulations. We will add this to the committees, because, of course, parallel after the adoption of the law, or with its entry into force, the government must approve the government's regulation, which then specifies what it will look like in particular. I would also like to say that we have conducted the negotiations very responsibly and we have considered the idea that the regions could participate in this, precisely for the reasons that have been raised here. Because sometimes there are municipalities that do not even have a dorm space or have anything to do with it, yet they suffer from the activity. Since it was quite lukewarm in terms of regions, the regions eventually did not get there. We have also been very concerned about what money should be intended for. From the point of view of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, it would be best if part of the money was allocated to remove old mining damage, because we have mining damage not only in companies that work, but there are companies from the previous regime, the previous regime, some hundreds of years old, which also need to be removed. Overall, the philosophical point is that, of course, we have considered all the conflicting views that will arise. There's no tax here. This is the fee for extracted minerals, the so-called roajality, which is why the Ministry of Industry and Trade deals with it, not the Ministry of Finance. If it was a tax, of course it must be within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. I will therefore also welcome the discussion in the Constitutional Committee, so that the Constitutional Committee can finally say what we have the legal view that this really is not a tax. It's a slightly different regime because the state charges the mineral that is its property. He has the property of coal, rocks. Other minerals are the property of the state until they are harvested. And the entity that makes them should pay a fee to the state, which Ideally should cover all externalities. Of course, debate is possible about whether it covers it. And, of course, we assume that, in the case of brown coal, this will not be at the expense of employment, but at the expense of the profits of mining companies that are not entirely small. I would also like to say why this is suddenly important. In principle, this matter was not important until the mining companies and similar companies were state-owned, because there is only a question of which channel the state will choose it, whether from the profit of the company or as a mining fee. At the time of the privatisation of companies, this question comes to the fore, because the state should participate in the proceeds and not just leave it to private companies. We had a rather intense debate about the amount of money we had. We came from the fact that, at the moment, surface brown coal is a profitable business, unlike coal mining, uranium and brown coal deep, and therefore there is no increase in fees, so it does not concern Karvinsko, as was suggested here in one of the contributions. There's a slightly different problem, and it's definitely not connected to this law. I'd like to say here that it doesn't have a direct relationship to the limits on brown coal mining. It has a relationship only indirect, especially from the point of view that these fees are all the more important, their possible increase if mining is extended to ČSA mine because there is a private company. In the case of North Bohemia mines, the mine Bílina is essentially not a big difference, because the bigger the fees for brown coal mining will be, the smaller the profits of North Bohemia mines will be, namely ČEZ and the less it will get from profit. There is, of course, a small nuance that about 25 percent of private investors get to ČEZ and, of course, if there are higher fees, they get a little less, but the difference is not dramatic. [[17.20 hours]] I would also like to comment on the limits, even if they are only in free connection, because the limits will be decided by the government, just as the government decided in 1991, it was Pithartův's government. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has been dealing with this for more than a year. We have carried out a number of analyses, submitted several options on how to proceed. I'll do it again in a nutshell. One option is to confirm the limits of Pithartův's government, not to move the mining anywhere, to move the limits to the Bílina mine. The third option is to move the limits to Bílina mine and partly to ČSA mine, to push the limits to ČSA mine, which means breaking down Horní Jiřetín. After a long debate and analysis, we have, in principle, only two options. Because it doesn't seem to have much support for variant one, i.e. maintenance of limits, because there are relatively strong arguments to shift the limits to the Bílina mine that this coal is needed to maintain the coal balance for the heating plants and, moreover, there are no settlements in the way. We crossed out Variant 3 because it would mean quite a lot of costs, mining a large amount of noise before coal could be extracted. So it doesn't work economically. So there are only two options left, i.e. Breaking through the Bílina mine, only possibly breaking through the two quarrys. The Ministry of Industry and Trade, after due consideration, proposes to the government this procedure: to break the limits on the Bílina mine and to decide on the ČSA mine in 2020. I would like to point out that this is not an alibiism on our part or a withdrawal of decisions, there are at least two rational reasons for this. One. It is not clear how it will be with the power plant Počerady, which burns five million tons of coal and which is owned by ČEZ. ČEZ also signed an option contract with the miners in northern Bohemia, which could have been used this year, or in 2019, that it could or may not leave the power plant to them. In 2019 he will decide again. He can decide either to leave it to private subjects or to lock it up. If CEZ decides to close it, then the coal is simply not needed, it is from ČSA Dol. It's almost all mining. That's one reason. The second reason is that if we succeed in fulfilling the intentions of developing nuclear energy, i.e. keep the blocks in operation in Dukovany until the years 2035 to 2037, when they must start closing, while starting the construction of new blocks, so there will be no demand for coal from the ČSA mine. However, if the successful pressures of some initiatives that want to limit Dukovan's lifetime and prevent new blocks from being built, it should be made clear that we will need coal because we have to produce electricity somewhere. So I'm very sorry that I can't propose a decision now and then, but after due consideration, that's what the Ministry of Industry and Trade is proposing. As the government decides, I don't know, I'm one of 17 ministers. At this point, it seems that this decision-making could come at some point in October or November, because there is one more deal with the tripartite that will take place in October, and then the government will decide. So much for limits. So maybe I would end up with the hope that this law will go further. We are, of course, ready for committee discussions, especially in the Economic Committee, to discuss all the problems associated with this, to present relevant government regulations, relevant analyses, tables and balance sheets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u101	Thank you, Minister. I will now ask the rapporteur, Mr Milan Urban, for his final speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister spoke of limits, I can do nothing but say an opinion on it, but I will be much more brief. In order to make it clear that the Minister did not speak for the entire social democracy, I must say this on the microphone. On the contrary, I think that the limits on the Czechoslovak Army's Lower should be broken, and I think this is not only for the social reasons that have been mentioned here, but also for the economic, economic and long-term stability of energy in the Czech Republic, because I think that we cannot afford such significant mineral wealth to write it off. It's just the limits. But I said I would like that decision before this law is finally passed, and I said so knowing that I would not propose to interrupt this point. That's so my colleagues can understand me. Sometimes it's better to be wrong about the side than against the side. This is just as true for you as it is for social democracy. I think that there will be enough room in the committees for us to be able to bring these analyses, or some things, into such a phase as to enable us to make responsible decisions about the outcome, namely whether or not this law will be passed in some or other form. So from this point of view, perhaps, to be clear, some logic of my thinking. I was not wrong that the debate was extensive, it is tempting and has a lot of different branches, which is also common in energy. So, of course, I thank you for every debate, for all the views that have been expressed on microphones here, and I believe that the committees will serve to make observations, suggestions, challenges and recommendations discussed in these committees, and that we will move forward a little bit. Perhaps one more comment. I remembered how we always look at what the environmental impact is, what the implications are for the budget, what the impacts are for the business environment. We have different regulations for this, that we always have it in our materials or government statements, but I wish we'd thought like Ota Černý did in those debates in the early 1990s. He always said at the end, "What about the citizen?" Let's think about that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u103	Thank you. The general debate is closed, but Mr Kalousek is reporting with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u104	I'll be very brief. I appreciate Mr Urban's honesty and the fact that on Parliament's soil we can listen to the opinion clash between the two leading representatives of social democracy. However, colleagues, as chairmen of opposition clubs, we have been under friendly pressure from the presidents of coalition clubs since this morning, that the programme is very long and that we should not delay unnecessarily. I respect, of course, that social democracy is a buffeted party with a variety of opinions, but in that case, if you're really in a hurry, say it at home and then tell us what you agreed to. Maybe it'll be faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u105	Thank you. We will now proceed to discuss this press. During the debate, two proposals were made, both for rejection and for repayment. First of all, we will vote on the motion for a rejection tabled by Mr Kádner and Mrs Aulicka. So I'll ring the bell and call in my co-workers from the lobby. I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe and ask you to rejoin. We will therefore now vote on who agrees to reject the proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 62. Members present are 166, for proposal 33, against 109. The motion was denied. [[17.30 hours]] We will therefore now vote on the proposal to refer back the proposal to the appellant, who was delivered by Mr Kučera. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of returning the motion to the applicant to work, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 63, the Members present 167, for proposal 44, against proposal 109. The motion was denied. In that case, we will now consider the proposal on the commandment of the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment of the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. We'll take the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 64, 168 Members and Members registered, in favour of proposal 166, against 1. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? Mr. Mr. Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u106	Thank you for the floor. For the reasons that I have named here several times today, I would like to order this press to be discussed by the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u107	Thank you. Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u108	Since this amendment also affects the budgets of cities and municipalities, I propose a committee on public administration and regional development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u109	Thank you. Another report was made by Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u110	I have already said this in the general part of the debate, but I suggest that the bill be directed to the constitutionally-legal committee in terms of assessing whether this can only be part of the government's regulation, or it must be in the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u111	Thank you. The Constitutional Committee. Still the MP's in Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u112	Thank you. I propose to the Social Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u113	Committee on Social Policy. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u114	Thank you for the floor. I propose the commandment of this press to the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u115	Does anyone else have another proposal that we should vote on? It's not like that. In that case, we will vote gradually as you have made your proposals. First, we will vote on bringing this press to the Committee on the Environment. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 65; 168 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 139, against none. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the commandments of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 66; 168 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 130, against 3. This proposal has also been adopted. I will now vote on the constitutional committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 67; 168 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 123, against 4. This proposal has also been adopted. We will also vote on the discussion in the Committee on Social Policy. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against the proposal? It is the 68 vote, 168 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 140, against 4. I note that this press has also been ordered to discuss the Social Committee. And the last thing we're gonna do is vote on the commandment to the budget committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is for the commandment to the budget committee, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 69; 169 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 126, against 2. This proposal has also been agreed with. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has also been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment, Public Administration and Regional Development, the Constitutional Committee, the Social Committee and the Committee on Budgets. I thank you and conclude the discussion of this point and pass on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-014-054.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. According to the programme, we will continue with the point
