ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 243/2000 Coll., on the budgetary determination of the revenue of certain taxes to local authorities and certain state funds (the Act on budgetary determination of taxes), as amended (the Parliamentary Press 416/ - second reading) We interrupted this point on Thursday 17. 9. at the 31st meeting in a detailed debate. Firstly, I ask that Mr Volný, who is the rapporteur, and, at the same time, instead of Minister Babiš, Mr Minister of Industry and Trade, take the seats at the rapporteur's table. I'll ask them if they want to get out. It's not like that. The rapporteur, Mrs Kovářová, does not want to speak either. In that case, we will continue the interrupted detailed debate. Mr. Mr. Vilímec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, allow me, in a detailed debate, to sign up to House document 2601, which is the proposal of Members Vladislav Vilímec, Zbyněk Stanjura and Adolf Beznoska. It is a proposal to which Mr Stanjura has already signed up in the last debate on my behalf. However, something has happened that is not normal. The House document suddenly disappeared from a set of House documents, so I was contacted by both the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Budgets, whether we had actually submitted this proposal or not. It was only after I admitted that we had filed and that I would still apply, that suddenly the proposal was discovered. I am not an expert on the electronic possibilities that the House has within the computer network, but this has happened since I was a Member for the first time since 2006. In order to do what is necessary for any objections, I am signing up to this House document 2601 and I will also briefly justify it. It is true that this government bill deals with the budgetary determination of taxes associated with territorial self-governing units of type of regions, not municipalities, but the budgetary determination of taxes is a bill which does not concern only regions but also municipalities. As is legitimate from the authorities to demand the return of that single percentage of tax sharing in the case of both regions and value added tax in a situation where the coalition wants to disrupt pension reform, so, of course, this requirement is appropriate and legitimate also in the case of municipalities. In the case of municipalities, it is also not possible to stay halfway. After all, you know that the basic building block of self-government is the municipalities, which we have almost 6,250. The proposal, which we have already made in a similar composition on the Committee on Budgets, is very helpful to the Ministry of Finance, very friendly to the Ministry of Finance and logical. He assumes, of course, that a unified percentage of municipalities cannot be reached in a year, but that there must be some kind of time space created here, therefore change, gradual unification is divided up until 2018. [[15.10 hours]] The proposal that we have put forward, 2016 assumes that nothing will change in the case of municipalities and in the case of their share of VAT, so that this proposal will not jeopardise the state budget, but will expect the current percentage from 20.83 to 21.83 to change from 1 January 2018 to 23.58 percent. The Minister of Finance isn't here, but that's okay. He was present at the Union of Towns and Communities when discussing these matters, heard the arguments of the mayors, heard the reasons why this change was needed. The Ministry of Finance had two comments on our proposal, which we have already submitted to the Committee on Budgets. The first point is that in recent years the budgetary determination of taxes has changed roughly twice to municipalities with a plus sign. A second reminder is such a strange reminder. Unlike the regions facing poorer farming, municipalities manage better, they manage well, so it is appropriate not to add anything to them. The first point, though it seems logical at first glance, will not stand. The second point is very smiling. The first comment, with the fact that there were two changes in certain indicators of budgetary determination in 2008 and 2013, does not stand in the sense that, both in 2008 and in 2013, the changes were to more or less equalise certain unjustified differences in the various size categories of municipalities. The mayors are well aware that in 2013, for example, the aim was to level the very bad position of the municipalities between 1,500 and 10,000 inhabitants, and they will certainly remember the graphical course of the budgetary determination of taxes, where there was a kind of settlement of municipalities up to 10,000 inhabitants. That was part of it. But I must point out that the cities of more than twenty-three thousand inhabitants did not benefit from this change, and even some regional cities, such as České Budějovice or Zlin, Pardubice, lost on the contrary. So it cannot be said that these changes would lead to some general increase in the budgetary determination of taxes. Therefore, I also consider the first argument unacceptable. The second argument is smiling. I think that making changes to the budgetary determination of taxes subject to poorer management of municipalities is something that needs to be added to the budgetary determination of taxes is smiling. You know, I'm not gonna talk long because I'm aware that there's a detailed debate. But if we remember 15 years ago, the community's share of VAT was 20.59 percent. After 15 years of huge changes in the responsibilities of municipalities, which were not accompanied by an appropriate transfer of funds, the share is 20.83 percent. That means 24 percent higher. The proposal is also justified by the fact that, unlike the regions in the new planning period, only a minimum of resources are allocated to the needs of municipal infrastructures. You know that it will not be possible to finance, for example, the reconstruction of local communications from European money. Yes, it is a gradual increase in the budgetary determination of municipalities against autonomous development by a total of CZK 10 billion, but it is set aside for certain years. For 2017 it is about 3.5 billion and only since 2018 it is the 10 billion crowns. I think the mayors deserve to know, especially at this time, at the end of the period, what funds they're supposed to be counting on, and this proposal is heading towards that too. It is a draft that is conceptual, which is not hostile to the Ministry of Finance, but which clearly states that what may happen near the regions must also occur with the municipalities. You know, budgeting taxes, and I'm kind of a memorial, always apply the principle that anyone who doesn't respond can't count on any increase in funds either. It should be borne in mind that these are not funds that would flow outside the general government sector, but contribute to the creation of investment resources that will otherwise be missing in municipal budgets. Of course, the Ministry of Finance and the current government can reject such a proposal. It could probably happen. But then he tells all the mayors of about 6,250 municipalities that they are not so interested in the municipalities that they have enough money, that it is their fault that they are trying to manage well within the framework of the current budgetary determination of taxes and are able to deal responsibly with their budgetary resources. Otherwise, the current arguments of the Ministry of Finance cannot be interpreted in principle. Dear colleagues, given that this proposal does not concern 2016 that it is gradually burdening the area of public finances, because, of course, the share of shared taxes is not paid from the state budget, but the area of public finances as such, I would ask honored colleagues, especially those who have experience in municipal policy, to study this proposal very thoroughly and, if possible, to support it at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u3	Thank you. I'm just pointing out that we're in a detailed debate. I have here a factual comment by Mr Adamec and then by Mr Beznoska. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'll be really brief, I took a reminder on purpose because we're at second reading. I would like to appeal to all the former fellow mayors, the current fellow mayors, to support our amendment, because I believe that the budgetary determination of taxes does not matter, as does one excise duty. By the way, the criticism here at the cutting of individual segments has already been heard. And I think it is very wrong to add only one segment in the budgetary determination of taxes. The idea that the municipalities are rich, as I have just registered from the meetings of the Union of Cities and Cities is completely wrong, and I can tell you that the municipalities are, of course, mostly managing the way that it is actually crisis management of the municipality and the budget, because if you look at the debt of the municipalities, it's not just about taking credit, but it's about keeping that level to normal spending so that it doesn't exceed the current revenue, which is just a share of the budget tax determination. I think that it is impossible to change the budgetary determination of taxes as a political step before the elections, because we all know that next year there will be regional elections and that, of course, whoever supports the increase in budgetary determination of taxes specifically for this segment of public administration will certainly have a better position maybe in the election next year. I intercede as with other segments, as I said, for example in excise taxes, so that we always deal with this proposal as a whole. But in other words, what my colleague here said about the changes, I think it was within that number, and I remember the debate that only raised the move from the four largest cities at the time, and that the consequences would have been to say that communication between us as a self-government has deteriorated considerably. I ask for the support of this proposal and I think it is wise to do it at once even in those gradual steps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u5	Colleague Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The previous speakers have said almost everything. I'm just reminding you that we're all thinking about budgeting taxes. Mr Vilímec here spoke of the years 2008 and 2013. I'm going to add a substantial change that has happened as far as 1. 1. 2000. So, in certain periods, we're going back to the debate, and it's a good thing we got back to it this time. Our proposal is really very sober, it has no extreme demands on future state budgets, regardless of the fact that the Ministry of Finance can prepare for action, because the first percentage increase will only apply from 2017 and the definitive increase will take place only in 2018. I mean 23.58 percent. The municipalities are really a basic building block, they know best how to use public funds. Therefore, I would very much like you to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u7	Yes, another one for a detailed debate, that is, with Mrs... If you do not have an amendment, my colleague, it is with de facto effect. [[To Mrs. Blacksmith's.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one point that I have made wrong. I was alerted to it by a night-time viewer from the Chamber of Deputies, when I said that the 2 billion that Minister Babiš denies to the municipalities, i.e. This concerns our amendment approved in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I said that 2 billion means 0.02% of the state's number. However, it is correct by the order above, approximately 0,2 %. Unfortunately, I am sorry that I made such a mistake, but I am happy that at least someone is watching our transmissions closely. I would just like to draw attention to what I hear from colleagues that municipalities do not deserve extra money because they have a lot of money. I repeat again the reason why this is so. The municipalities are doing well and are saving up to finance European subsidies, whose next round awaits them. Therefore, I would like to ask you to think again about the amendment. And if at third reading, if you could support this amendment. I'm sorry the Minister isn't here, but I hope he'll attend the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u9	Thank you. The Minister is duly excused, taking part in the ECOFIN meeting. With a point of fact, Mr Pavera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u10	Nice and pleasant afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues. I, like my predecessors at this counter, intercede to support the increase in tax revenues for municipalities and cities. For one simple reason. I myself am the mayor of a community that has 4,400 inhabitants, and in the past we have dealt many times with the fact that we have had low tax revenues as a community that is between 1,500 and 10,000 inhabitants. Now we are much better and, of course, we could be even better and we would not have to - I say this always and frankly - we would not have to ask for subsidies provided by individual ministries that would not have to deal with them at all, because the subsidies are from always having a problem between the individual people in our society. So if we can cancel the subsidies completely, let's split them up by budgeting the taxes. The municipalities and cities certainly know which direction to support construction in their village, which direction to expand, as they say, civic amenities and the like. And from my experience in 17 years of mayorhood, I can tell you that even in 25 years, some communities don't have everything done. They don't have sidewalks, they don't have sewers, they don't have roads fixed just because they don't have enough money in their budgeting taxes. So I believe that you will support this so that it can work far and much better and easier in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u11	Thank you. I have no further application for a detailed debate. With a point of fact, I presume, Mr. Ambassador? There you go. Mr. Bendl, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to add to this proposal by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which makes it possible, and after having believed me in the long discussion across the political spectrum, we have decided to support this amendment so that it can also be contributed to the municipalities. I want to appeal very much to those of you sitting in the municipal councils to support the proposal. There will be municipal elections. And I don't think there's a need to raise the incomes of municipalities, just like we're doing right now essentially in front of regional elections, but that we should help the municipalities. We talked about the need for money to co-finance European money projects so that municipalities had their own funds. They are most burned especially by local communication, on which the state clearly does not want or cannot give much money. In this way, we would at least help some of the municipalities. I would ask you very much to support the amendment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-001-004.u13	Thank you. I do not have any further applications, so I am ending the detailed debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. I will ask the rapporteur - I do not have in my remarks that any voteable proposal will fall. It's not like that. In that case, I conclude the second reading of this proposal and thank both the rapporteur and the Minister. Let's continue with the point.
