ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-002-131.u1	131. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Economic Partnership between the States of CARIFORA, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part /German press 479/ - Second reading I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to take the floor in his second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-002-131.u2	Thank you again. Ladies and gentlemen, as the President has already said, this is an agreement between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Carifora Association. CARIFORA is an association of Caribbean states. In order to make it clear what we are discussing, I would like to name these states, so that it is clear who we are actually concluding this agreement with. The States of CARIFORA are: Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominican Community, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Kryštof and Tobago. [[9.20 hours]] This is therefore a community of those Caribbean countries, with which an agreement is concluded here, which is essentially a commercial economic, development cooperation, is something that helps to strengthen the regional group and, at the same time, strengthens relations between European states and the Caribbean. And I would like to stress that this agreement, if we conclude it, would also possibly be a certain divide in relations between the Czech Republic and those countries of the Caribbean, because it could mean quite a strong incentive, an incentive, even for economic development between the Czech Republic and those states. I inform you that the agreement has already been signed or ratified by 17 Member States of the European Union. I'm assuming you could ask what Cuba's up to. So I'll tell you that Cuba has not yet agreed to this agreement, she has not signed it, so she has not yet participated in the negotiation of this agreement. In theory, Cuba might add to that. Then the accession agreement and the Union party would have to be approved in accordance with the usual rules. But Cuba is not part of this Caribbean agreement at the moment. So at second reading, I believe that it is enough to know what we are discussing, and I think there will be a report on how it took place in the committees. It's all on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-002-131.u3	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, who is Mr Karel Rais, to justify to us the resolution of the committee delivered as press 479/1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-002-131.u4	Have a good day. The resolution of the Foreign Committee of the 20th meeting of 3 September reads as follows: The Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the Carifora States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, has been heard by the Secretary-General of Foreign Affairs PhDr Lukáš Kaucký, Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Mgr Novotný and the reporting report and after the debate, the Foreign Committee first recommends: The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Agreement on Economic Partnership between the CARIFORA States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Bridgetown, Barbados on 15 October 2008. Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and thirdly empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-002-131.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. No one's applying, so I'm done with the debate. If there is no interest in the final words, we shall proceed to the vote. You have heard the motion for a resolution, as proposed by the Foreign Committee and presented by the rapporteur. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 90, registered is 158, for 148, against no one. This proposal has been adopted and I conclude the discussion of paragraph 131. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Let's continue with the point.
