ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u1	29. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with proof of the origin of property /house print 504/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the draft law on proof of the origin of the property, the effectiveness of which is proposed on 1 January 2016. This is a legislative act that the government has set itself as one of its priorities. The aim of the bill is to adjust existing tax law mechanisms so that it is possible to identify the unpaid or withheld income of taxpayers from income taxes and subsequently to tax them. The bill contains an amendment to the Income Tax Act and the Criminal Code. The bill will allow the tax administrator to call on the income tax payer to prove income if there is a significant difference - the law sets a limit of at least CZK seven million - between the increase in the taxpayer's assets, consumption or other issuance and income established in the tax return. The payer is obliged to demonstrate that the property has been financed from income duly taxed or not subject to taxation. If the taxpayer fails to bear the burden of proof, the tax will be determined according to the aids. The tax base thus determined will be taxed at a standard income tax rate of 15 or 19 per cent depending on the taxpayer's type and the taxpayer will also be obliged to pay a penalty of 50 or 100 per cent of the fixed tax, depending on the provision of synergies. At the same time, the proposed proposal allows the tax administrator, after fulfilling the conditions laid down by law, to invite the taxpayer to submit a declaration of assets in order to ascertain detailed information on the state of his assets. Therefore, it is not a general obligation to provide regular property returns. In the event that the taxpayer violates the obligation to make a true declaration of property, the threat of criminal prosecution for a criminal offence is exposed to a breach of the obligation to make a true declaration of property. Following this, it is proposed to increase the upper limit of the penalty rate of imprisonment for this crime from one year to three years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me introduce you to my intelligence report. The coalition government of social democracy, YES and KDU-ČSL presented its concept of solution in the middle of last year in the document Analysis of the origin of the property and the possibility of its draining. In close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance has prepared an alternative solution to the task from the government's programming declaration in which the parties to the government coalition have committed themselves to taking appropriate measures to demonstrate the origin of the assets and to drain them, in the event of reasonable doubt as to their legal acquisition. The submitted document offered two ways to solve this task. The way of the court and the way of the tax. The judicial solution to the problem consisted in the introduction of a mechanism of special judicial procedure, not criminal. This was intended to enable the dewatering of assets to take place where it was found that certain assets were most likely to come directly or indirectly from illegal sources. The decision to drain the assets should have been entrusted to the court in the context of a special procedure under this proposal. Draining was intended to have the character of confiscation, reparation, and was mainly to concern property with which the court found the required degree of probability regarding the lawlessness of its origin. The burden of proof would be transferred to a person possessing the property to a reasonable extent. The other way is the tax road. The tax route of solving the problem should then consist of taxation of income from property, which will meet the legal criteria. However, taxation by its nature does not have either a sanction or a reparation character and cannot serve as a complete drain on illegal property or a significant part of it, but only as a taxation of income which has not been proven to be taxed or exempt or liable to tax. A little bit about the history of the current solution, which is just the tax route. On the basis of the analysis carried out, the Ministry of Finance considered the trial in the first place. At the same time, however, it admitted that organ involvement would be crucial to the effective fulfilment of the stated objective. Financial administration of the Czech Republic, which receives data within the scope of its duties as tax administrator, on the basis of which it is possible to identify the suspicion that the person has the property of illegal origin. It therefore recommended that the search operation and preparatory phase for the submission of a qualified proposal on the basis of which judicial proceedings would be conducted should be entrusted to those authorities. This naturally did not exclude the current activities of the authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic. Although the proposed solution meant a way to solve the problem of illegally acquired property, after discussing this document in the government coalition and subsequently in the government there was a rather significant change of assignment. Its product has become the proposed bill of proof of the origin of the property, as it is now under discussion, ladies and gentlemen. The Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic reports the reasons for a rather significant change in the concept. It has been evaluated that attention should not be focused on draining illegal property, for which it is necessary to make better use of existing instruments, especially in the field of criminal law, but on more effective taxation of unconfessed, i.e. tax-free income. Thus, the bill does not aim at draining illegally acquired property or sanctioning perpetrators of potentially criminal activity through taxes, but at taxing unconfessed and classified income. So it's actually about narrowing it down, especially about turning this problem around. In this respect, the approach of the bill differs significantly from the previous proposals. Its purpose is, according to the petitioner, a more effective taxation of unconfessed income, not the taxation of unconfessed property. Property is value and above, it serves as an auxiliary criterion by which it assesses whether or not income or other facts declared by the taxpayer correspond to reality. In this respect, the law deepens the concept of the use of property control as a specific mirror for the control of income, based on proposals at the turn of the century. However, the process itself is fundamentally different. Its starting point, unlike the previous proposals, is not the general obligation to submit property returns. The solution is based on an individual assessment of the property-income compliance tax administrator with a particular taxpayer. According to the petitioner, therefore, the solution to this problem is not to introduce a general obligation to submit property returns, but to process disclosure, strengthening and supporting the current mechanisms of tax law. The Minister has set out the basic principles here, so I will no longer mention them and I recommend that they be released, this bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u5	I thank Mr Votav and open a general debate, the first to which Mrs Helena Langšádlová made a point of fact. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President's speech, especially the part where he spoke about the mobsters. It is very valuable that the President has spoken so openly about the financing of his campaign and the ownership of his chancellor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u7	Thank you, ma'am. The first duly applied for is Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u8	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, let me also comment on the press presented. From the legal and legislative point of view, I would like to refer to it as a legislative asshole, both in terms of content and formality. From the point of view of content - and here I would refer directly to the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government. In addition to the additional assessment of the tax, it is also possible to grant the taxpayer a penalty of 50 per cent or, if it does not provide synergies with the Financial Authority, then up to 100 per cent. This provision is also contrary to a certain finding of the Constitutional Court, which spoke of the winding-up penalty, but, moreover, the Legislative Council of the Government stated that an increase in the penalty from 50 to 100 per cent is constitutionally unconstitutional if you want to be unconstitutional. That is why the Government's Legislative Council has proposed to the petitioner that only 50 per cent can be sanctioned. This means, as I have already said, the Legislative Council of the Government considers this provision of the law to be constitutionally unconstitutional. In her opinion, he is unconstitutional, forcing the taxpayer to cooperate in order to impose sanctions on him. This is also referred to by the Constitutional Court's finding. The taxpayer cannot be forced to cooperate in the sense that the penalty of 100 per cent will be applied once so much. The opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government is based on the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which, in its decisions, referred to the institute as a financial penalty, which may be regarded as an accusation within the meaning of Article 6 (1) of the Treaty. 1 The Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms also refers to the relevant judgments and findings of the European Court of Human Rights. I do not understand this, and in the history of executives, I do not remember that the government, after its Legislative Council of the Government states that part of the law is unconstitutional, approved this law peacefully and sent it to the Chamber of Deputies. I agree with the Government's Legislative Council's position in this regard, and I would like to say here that if the government coalition manages to approve this law - and I do not believe it very much - the TOP 09 will undoubtedly turn to the Constitutional Court on this matter, so that the relevant paragraph, which provides for a penalty in determining the tax under the aids, should be subjected to a constitutional test and, where appropriate, to abolish this paragraph. If I take another provision of this law - the burden of proof. Yes, it is transferred from 100 per cent to the taxpayer, that is, the principle is that the state must prove to someone that it has committed an infringement, it turns in the direction that someone must prove that it has not committed an infringement. Even the time limits that the tax office will be able to go back to, three to ten years, when we take it from the archiving time limits for archiving accounting documents and we take on the fact that non-business persons, those who do not do business, do not have the right to retain their documents in this regard in the long term, so I would like to know on the basis of which the tax office will proceed with those non-business persons. Yes, the law, which I called a legislative bastard from a formal point of view, works with various concepts as "determining the amount of property" or "higher fortune." By the way, the concept of "change" does not know the Income Tax Act at all, so it is possible to refer to the concept of the Civil Code, but it does not refer to that law at all. By the way, they say it's a law on proof of the origin of property. This is a set of amendments to existing laws. I think it would also be good to mention that this is not a new law, but only in an imperfect way, without a clear definition, they are amending some existing laws. So transferring the burden of proof from 100 per cent to the taxpayer, I also consider this to be very controversial in the context of this proposal and from the point of view of forcing citizens, so that those who do not do business for the purposes of this law have to somehow hide and document what property actions they have done. Furthermore, the Government's Legislative Council, because it is not all of this, finds it very unsystematic that this law increases the penalty rate for an offence of false information in the declaration of property - that is, it is a declaration of property - for three years, and the Government's Legislative Council considers this to be inefficient, inconsistent. The idea that, for formal reasons, someone will make a mistake in the declaration of property and, on that basis, would be subject to a penalty rate of up to three years, is indeed an unreasonable and very specific provision proposed by the Legislative Council of the Government also to exclude it from this proposal. To sum up, this proposal, which the Legislative Council of this government calls partly unconstitutional, is a question of whether we should continue to deal with it at all. In this context and on the basis of the Government's Legislative Council's opinion, I propose that this law be rejected at first reading precisely for the Government's Legislative Council's position as unconstitutional. The law won't bring anything of interest. By the way, even today tax authorities, Customs authorities, law enforcement authorities have tools to affect the grey economy, illegal income, etc. We have here performances of a pompous character from Kobra etc., so it's really a pointless, useless law. By the way, setting that value of 7 million as an unregistered asset, if it exceeds 7 million, so the taxpayer is called upon to prove its origin and subsequently charged with tax or periodic penalty payments, once again leads to a legitimate infringement so that those who are dishonest can prepare their property transfers to this law so that they do not fit into it, so that they do not simply apply to them. So now the state is telling them to what extent and above what amount something so-called suspicious is already, although of course it is not proven, it is based on often some selective decision, submission, etc., so now the dishonest ones will receive instructions on how to proceed illegally by this law. That, too, I think it is very unfortunate for the state to proceed this way. As I mentioned, if the government coalition accidentally succeeds in pushing through this proposal, even on the basis of the Government's Legislative Council's opinion, we will turn to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of this law in terms of its constitutionality. This law is useless, it is to punish and make suspects of taxpayers. And those who walk around the law are smiling, and they're getting ready for it. By the way, the law doesn't really deal with what was happening here, what the finance minister here is often talking about, that is, various property transfers abroad. It doesn't even matter when someone within their company deals with their property and everything so-called leads to the company. So even these perpetrators and these con men will not be able to reach this law. So a completely useless and pointless standard, and I propose rejecting it at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u9	I thank Mr Plíšek. I'm registering his motion to dismiss this bill. Another party to the debate is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to speak with criticism of the President's speech, respectively. Some parts of it, but the thing is a little different. A moment ago I learned that Chancellor Mynář heard my voice, or the voice of the public, which has been resonating with society for a long time, and should give me his tax return on Tuesday. So my speech is this short and we look forward to Tuesday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u11	Well, thank you, Mrs. Kovářová. [[Mrs Kovářová stopped at the rapporteur's table, spoke briefly with the Minister of Finance and with the rapporteur, reporting for a speech with a factual remark]] . You may have a point of fact, Madame. Yes, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u12	I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for drawing attention to the mistake I have made. I mentioned a tax return. Of course, we don't need to see that. We are interested in the property confession, and that is what the Chancellor has been talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u13	I thank Mrs Kovářová for her factual clarification. I apologise to Mr Dolejš because the President of the TOP 09 and the Mayor Miroslav Kalousek signed up with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most extensive recodifications was the recodification of the 1966 Tax and Charge Administration Act, which applied here until 2011, and as of 1. 1. 2011 came into effect the new tax code on which we worked, I was in charge of it then as Minister of Finance for many years. Since 2007, discussions have been held in a large group, to which not only politicians have been invited, not only experts, but also business public. The Supreme Administrative Court played an important role in the discussion, where Dr. Baxa directly participated in all those meetings. After five years of this discussion, a tax - modern new tax code was presented as a substitute for the old, a hundred times amended tax and tax law and it was evaluated, although of course some amendment always forces the life out, it was evaluated as a really good, modern tax code at the time. Which I don't take credit for, I was only politically responsible for his preparation. This is due to the broad team of experts from both tax advisors and administrative judiciary and business public. The consistent principle applied in the tax system, and it was not a 100% rule in the Tax and Charges Act, as a 100% rule, as a 100% rule, the burden of proof on the part of the State was applied to the tax system as an unbreakable principle. And I have appreciated that over the years of social democracy discussions, which were very actively involved in all those talks and preparations of this code, that this rule - yes, had reservations about some other parts of the tax code, which I remember well - but this rule, it accepted this principle, did not speak out against it and considered it right. From the perspective of the relationship between the State and the citizen, when the State should be a public service and a service, this principle is crucial, indeed, unbreakable. The state that carries the tax burden - sorry, the tax burden, the tax burden of course carries - the burden of proof on its citizen and says, "Prove, or I will punish you, you have documented this, no, you have not yet proved it, you still haven't proved it, we are still not satisfied with your evidence" is a state that no longer perceives its position as a public service and as a service for a citizen, but it is a state of highness. It is a state that is intimidating, especially at the moment when the choice is logically selective on the basis of one's wishes or one's claims. After all, in the law itself, you can read that the petitioner assumes that it will proceed on the basis - among other things, but it is listed there - on the basis of incentives from third parties. We all know how it will be done in the Czech boiler: based on feelings of envy, on the basis of personal vendetta, on the basis of a competitive business struggle, we will report ourselves as on the running belt. This instrument will be abused in a competitive fight between business groups. I don't think envy and mutual insinuation are exactly the qualities that we should support in other and other laws. I think there are quite a few in the Czech Republic. We do not need to amplify these human qualities with our own laws that we adopt. So much for a start on this proposal, which I believe every knowingly dishonest person will avoid. The global financial world provides infinite opportunities for a truly dishonest one who wants to escape to escape him to divert. And the honest ones, and they won't be enough, ten million crowns for the businessman and for the private farmers is easily reachable value of the property, if you simply calculate how much the farm has hectares and how much the living and dead inventory, so basically a very poor person who has liquidity problems, even a very poor person has over ten million crowns of property, will be exposed to incredible bullying. We're protesting it. We ask you to reconsider this approach precisely because the dishonest ones will escape it very easily and only the honest ones, those who see no reason to hide their property, but will be identified by their neighbours, their competitors and the bullying of the state apparatus against which they will have their own burden of proof. It's not a nice idea, and it's not a fair state that wants to do that. Allow me, too, because there has not been a proposal for a debate on the President's speech, let me make a comment on this occasion on the President's speech. I do not blame him for having a completely different view of this law than I do, nor do I blame him for suggesting that, in addition to the unconstitutionalities that the petitioner has already made in this proposal, another unconstitutionality by increasing retroactivity. Of course, he has every right to do so. But what I strongly oppose and protest against is his statement, which he said - I quote freely - that judges are far more corrupt than tax officials. This was said by the President of the Republic as part of the power executive in the Chamber of Deputies to power legislative and unprecedentedly challenged the power of the court. The statement is unfounded, the statement is unfair, and given who said it, where he said it and who he said it to, it is also an extremely dangerous statement within a democratic state. And I object to that statement, calling it false, unfair, and dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u15	Thank you to President Kalousek. Mr Jiří Dolejš, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u16	Beautiful afternoon. Dear colleagues, I see that time is short, the water is rising, because we are about to have another jewel - electronic sales, so I will try to be very compressed, not to say dense. First comment on the margo that the president took the liberty of reminding himself that he's a fan of a property confession. I don't blame him, after all, his government tried twice and hit the blue wall on the right, so it just couldn't. All I'm saying is that the versions presented by his ministers are much closer to the version we already have here is from the author's workshop KSČM. It is a parliamentary proposal and has been here since June of last year. First of all. Secondly, if you're pulling a conflict of interest into the game and the fact that Mr. Castle Chancellor is kind of catching up on what he should have done a long time ago, that's true, of course, but I wouldn't mix those things. I just hope that the chancellor will finally match the officials at his level and will not be wasted and maybe sensitively hiding behind this gap in a law that can be quickly removed. Now, as for the government's proposal itself, which was born for one and a half years, you have it in a programming statement, a nice coalition, so it's just a question - because the idea of how you feel about my speech is God-loving - is, of course, a question for implementation. I believe that the reservations that sound to the legal structure here, to constitutionality, to things such as true and false retroactivity, the question of self-incrimination, etc. etc., including the burden of proof, can be discussed and also led to a successful end at second reading. I therefore signal that we are certainly not in favour of a ban on rejecting this proposal at first reading. But I also add that we hope that both the proposals, both government and MP from the KSČM workshop, will be discussed in parallel because everyone has its charm. And the last one, that is, where I see the spell - and then I end up, because it's really coming to one hour - our proposal is mostly superficial. It is indeed a property return law and imposes an obligation, a simple obligation, a small obligation for anyone who has 10 million for individuals. and 30 miles. for legal persons. It's simple and it's quite effective. koneckonců all, this was also approved by the Czech Government in 1993. The proposal that we have here is based on the disgust of a part of the House, and that is why it is basically a kind of soft-verse that does not look for the solution in the general system of property returns, but it creates tools in the field of tax administration and complements it with the correction of the criminal law so that it can be possible in the event of a reasonable indication of a problem for the tax administration to act proactively. Whether it is or not, that's the question mark. And I also noticed in the President's speech a question mark on whether or not the Minister of Finance is right if he doesn't know if it will lead to any revenue at all. Because let's just say that these tax guys are gonna get right out of the scare that they're gonna see this law and they're gonna start acting reasonable, that's, of course, questionable, and the effect may not be tangible, unlike our version. After all, they have something similar in Slovakia, not exactly the same, and that there would be a statistically significant increase in collection from this title, so it certainly is not. So I think the idea is worth discussing. I'm interrogating it to be released for further reading. And there is also a modest request, because we interrupted our proposal before the end of the first reading with the appeal to the government proposal. But at least not if it passes now, but at least until we discuss the government version, so that it can also be discussed, at least to be included in the nearest - and by the nearest, I mean the nearest opposition window, so that it doesn't hang there, so that we can really compare, factually compare, the two solutions. So much for me, and time is slowly filling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u17	I thank Mr Dolejš. Before I give the floor to Mr Blažek and after Mr Kučer, I will please read the apologies: Mr Josef Uhlík apologizes today from 12.30 for personal reasons, Mr Zdeněk Soukup apologizes at today's meeting after 14:00, but this is not expected. Furthermore, Minister Kateřina Valachová apologizes today from 11.30 for work reasons, and Mr Pavel Holík apologizes today from 13 o'clock for work reasons. Now, please, Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u18	Thank you for the floor. I will, of course, also respond, because the President has come to present this point today, so it is not possible to avoid some of the things he said here. Please allow me to say that our constitutional system is essentially based on the fact that the state essentially has three functions - a function to create laws, that means some legal order, then the function is executive, that means someone has to exercise those laws, then there is the power of justice and let's say the power of self-governing, which I'm going to put aside a little bit. Then it's thought out so, and not just in our country, that these three so-called. they have the power to compete. And to compete in the sense that they are to work together to create a work that is supposed to be a piece of quality by internal competition. But what they certainly don't have, they're not supposed to destroy each other with slander and various unsubstantiated claims, which we've witnessed here today. You know, we can observe Miloš Zeman for a long time on that political scene. Somehow today he enjoyed giving a speech here à la Andrei Babiš, which means without any support here he rudely assaulted one power. If I said to Andrej Babiš when he ran - she said a lot of things and worse in campaigns. But the President of the Republic shouldn't talk like that, and I'll tell you why, too. All those powers, including the President of the Republic, are at the same time responsible for the state's appearance. The President has come - and let us remember who please appoints the judge and who appoints the officials from the county courts upstairs. He's the president of the Republic. Miloš Zeman has long been Prime Minister of this state, where various judicial officials have also been approved in governments. And now he's gonna come in here and tell some stories, and he's gonna count the percentage of bribes, and so on, when you have to say, "This justice isn't what the description was." I'm not telling you that the judge, the angel, the prosecutor, the angel. But such a system, which has been compared to some Italy, probably not contemporary, but to some Italy, let's say from the 1970s, the 1980s, does not exist here, and the President of the Republic should not make such an argument. What kind of courts do you want? You want courts that are afraid to make decisions if the President of the Republic doesn't stand up for them? That means they'd rather take everyone's property, they'd rather give everyone the ultimate punishment just so they don't have to worry about the media, some members of the government and the president of the Republic. Well, that's not exactly what the justice system is supposed to be, even though there are sometimes individual cases that aren't meant to be. I'm talking about occasional corruption or some sort of non-systemic act. But if we want to criticize this justice here, and we have the right to do that, let's do it in that constitutional sense, that is to put together a work called the quality of this state's operation, but let's not drag a pavilion here, and just because of some political points of our own, let's not liquidate the individual powers. It was Andrej Babiš - and he hasn't been doing it for a long time, here I have to say - who, at the moment he entered the power of the executive, made that power actually useless. I admit, I haven't heard this rhetoric lately, and I'm glad to hear it. We should turn against it if the President of the Republic here wants the other power to slander it and de facto reduce its weight to citizens, because I think it is very wrong. And I've been waiting for my performance until now that I've been expecting the Home Secretary or the Minister of Justice to actually say what I'm saying. And since that didn't happen, I have to use that space as opposition, but there's nothing I can do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-008-029.u19	It is 12:59 a.m., and I will apologize to Mr Stanjur, because we have another point firmly placed at 13:00, and he would not have made his point of order. So I'm interrupting a government bill that changes some laws in connection with proving the origin of the property, his first reading. It's 13 o'clock, and we've taken a firm vote for this time.
