ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended, Act No. 269/1994 Coll., on the Criminal Register, as amended, and some other laws /house print 368 - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly remind you of the content of the Government's bill amending the law on offences, the Criminal Register Act and some other laws. The bill introduces an amendment to the criminal record kept by the Criminal Register, which will contain selected offences under the Act on Infractions. Specifically, these are offences against public order, against civil coexistence and, for example, against property. The bill affects the repeated commission of these offences by increasing rates and sanctions. According to the proposal, other offences will also be registered under the Act on Infractions and Special Laws, if they are relevant for the assessment of so-called. the infractional reliability of the person concerned. The Constitutional Committee has tabled several amendments to the proposal. I can relate to most of them. For some, I would like to explain why this is not the case. For example, on the proposal to amend Section 72 of the Criminal Code, I must state that the party to the infringement proceedings is damaged. If it is decided on its right to compensation for the damage it exercises in the proceedings, traditionally only property damage is decided in the infringement proceedings, i.e. damage caused by the offence. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] Other proposals where I cannot agree, for example, include a proposal to exclude offences in the fishing sector from the record of offences. To this end, it should be noted that these offences are particularly important in terms of the reliability of persons under the Municipal Police Act or the Arms Act. Finally, I also wish to express my disagreement with the launch of the access of the Financial and Customs authorities -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u3	Minister, I apologize and I will ask you to wait for your colleagues to speak or to move to the lobby, if necessary, so that you do not have to shout them out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u4	Thank you. So once again, I want to express my fundamental opposition to the discharge of access by the Financial and Customs authorities to the record of offences. I consider that, if the record of offences is established and contains information on offences committed, the public authorities should use this information for their activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u5	Thank you. On 21 January 2015, at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the press was ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. The transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure states that if it is not submitted during the examination of the draft law Before the amendment is effective, the Chamber of Deputies will determine which committee is the guarantee committee. In the present case, the draft law was directed only to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a single committee and it is therefore clear that this committee is a guarantee committee. Therefore, we do not need to vote on the designation of the guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 368/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Bronislav Schwarz, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u6	Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, colleagues. As a member of the Constitutional Legal Committee, I listened carefully to the Minister. He justified the amendments, mainly justifying those against whom he has reservations not only as a minister but also as his ministry, and I think that the same reasoning also took place on the constitutionally legal committee. I would just like to point out to my colleague, Marek Benda, that I, as a person, fully identify myself, also with regard to fishing offences, because it is necessary to know that although I am committing fishing offences and would not be registered, such offences would not be registered, so this could also affect the behaviour of police officers or bodies active in the issuing of arms, in simplicity. It's important that the offense stays there like everyone else. So it's a short story. Otherwise, I'd like to say that this law has been waiting a long time for the Police of the Czech Republic. And I think it will help, once again, as I point out, to all decent people, because those offences will hurt more than some crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u7	Thank you, and I am opening up a general debate to which she has signed up... Let me ask - Mr Komárek de facto? In fact, then, Mrs Kovářová is enrolled in the debate. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u8	Thank you, Madam President, I will be very brief. I agree with the law, but on the Constitutional Legal Committee, I asked the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior how they would justify why the Financial and Customs authorities needed this information on offences. I did not get the answer, so logically the committee voted as it voted, i.e. put forward an amendment. So, with all due respect, I would like to ask Minister Chovanec to justify this need for us here, and in that case, I am happy to change my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u9	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Mr. Benda will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the explanatory memorandum states that this amendment will have no significant impact on the municipalities and cities. And if so, more or less positive. Nevertheless, I would like to pause on the issue of the costs that the proposal put forward for the municipalities will mean. In the explanatory memorandum, Minister, you say that it will only cost insignificant. Is it possible to specify that? That's my first question. My second question concerns the extent of the criminal record. According to the proposal submitted, administrative offences of legal persons are to be the subject of registration. I do not consider this to be entirely happy in the light of experience with some companies that are illegally engaged in the entire territory of our Republic. I am not a fan of excessive repression, but this issue needs to be clarified. Can the Minister explain to me the reasons why he did not include legal persons? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u11	Thank you, and before I invite Mr Benda to the microphone, please, with the priority right of the rapporteur, Schwarz. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would like to announce that I will speak once more in a detailed debate, and I will have an amendment on behalf of my senior colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u13	Thank you and I will now ask Mr Benda to prepare Mr Tejc. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u14	Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I may be a little longer this time and I apologise to this honourable House, but I must say that I am disappointed in the position of the Minister of the Interior, who has obviously come to the instigation of his officials, that everything that the Constitutional Committee has tried to do and improve has basically rejected and remains with the original concept. So I will translate the original concept of this House, because I think it's really wrong and wrong. Who do you remember when the discussion about the criminal record began, so the basic record of offenses was that if people who repeatedly commit offenses against precisely civil coexistence, public order and foreign property, such as theft and others, which are incriminating or only punishable by fines, it would be possible to chain these offences when someone has five, ten, fifteen a year, it would be possible for these offences to be overturned into a criminal offence and repeated offense to become a criminal offence. Therefore, a register of offences was to be established in order to be able to deal - particularly in the north, for the rapporteur - with groups of residents who feel that they are, of course, incorruptible, benefits are non-executable, and if someone is wearing five, seven or fifteen penalties for disturbing public order or petty theft, it does not matter to him, because no one can help money out of them. However, the problem with the proposal that lies before us now is that this part of the chaining, which would become a crime, has fallen out of the proposal. All we have here is that if someone commits such an offence twice a year, I will increase the fine. Well, that's great. If I raise the fine from five to 50,000 or from a maximum of 20 or 15 to 50,000, it looks noble. Except with the little crime that this proposal was originally supposed to fight, I'm not going to do anything. This small crime is not at all addressed and will continue to accumulate with me. And the only result that the law has, and that is why I say that the fact is deeply flawed, is that every person will start to be held in a criminal record for five years, when I just point out that for some crimes, the limitation period is three years, that the time of annihilation is three years, for five years it will be about anyone who commits such an offence, even some other offences that have been named here in the section for example. A fishing committee that I believed was consciously removed from the bill, because it was really nonsense for five years to hang about me, whether I caught an undersized fish or whether I caught one after midnight or something like that, so all of this wants to be kept by the minister's register. And, of course, when the minister came to the government and said, "I would like to have such a register and I would like to keep in such a register data on the individual transfers and sanctions that have been applied against them," so all the ministries appeared and everyone said, "I would also love to see in this register." The first was said by law enforcement authorities. I may still be able to understand that if I have someone who has repeatedly committed crimes, that it may have an impact on the assessment of his crime, to assess whether he is reasonable or not reasonably suspicious. Then, of course, the intelligence services came. Well, there's nothing easier than when there's a registry so I can look at the register. What the intelligence services are for, I really have no idea. There's no reason for this on the committee, and the explanatory report doesn't say that either. Then came other and other authorities, prosecutors, and now not as law enforcement authorities, but prosecutors in criminal matters, on issues of public interest entering into family disputes or a company dispute, and suddenly should become the one who goes into the criminal record, and I don't know what if he looks at it, he finds out. That one party committed an offence three years ago in a parenthood dispute? Is that any use to the state's attorney's office? Will he look at that person as more suspicious, doubt her fatherhood, or question her fatherhood? And other inputs that the state's attorney has in the so-called. a public suit. Will he look at people like they're more suspicious? Financial and Customs. Again, the Minister seems to be under pressure from his office and his apparatus telling us: it's great, the Financial and Customs Administration, the government has suggested it this way, put it back there. The Constitutional Committee, after the de facto inability of ministerial officials to defend why it should be there, and of course they had this proposal in advance, because no one knows why it should be there, if the fact that I committed an offence three years ago in the fishing sector makes me more suspicious for the Financial Administration as VAT payer, or if it will just be entered in my file, and we know how the financial authorities keep the files, they have everything in them. It's just the creation of a completely pointless registry that has no real impact in fact, a repeated offense is only if it's committed within a year, but it's gonna hang here for five years. It's just the creation of a new register with x officials sitting on it and looking at everyone, preferably in the exercise of their powers, but we know that it's not always in the exercise of their powers, that sometimes there are also those who just look at their neighbor or their opponent and just like that. We have no way of preventing this from happening too effectively. I ask why we are going to establish such a register today if the most important part has fallen out of it, that is, the fact that repeated minor offences become a criminal offence and are also subject to sanctions which are now already in criminal law and which, of course, do not necessarily mean that those persons will go to prison immediately, but may mean some bans on entry into certain places, these electronic bracelets, which the Minister of Justice so often and likes to talk about, may mean other types of public supervision of probation and mediation services. We're just creating a register here for the register, and we approach that all public authorities, if possible, would like to look at it and, if possible, assess individual persons on the basis of it. I find it very unfortunate. I think, and I was almost ready to accept that this House would somehow pass through after a resolution by the Constitutional Legal Committee, which acted fairly reasonably, that at least some of the offences were removed from the bill and removed some of the institutions for which there was no reason at all why they should enter. Unfortunately, after the Minister spoke for the resort, where he said "all the changes that you have proposed, our resort rejects" I recommend that we conclude this discussion in accordance with § 93 para. 2 has returned the draft law to the committee for renegotiation, because I think it is not ripe at this time to go through a second reading in this conflict between the Guarantee Committee and the Ministry of the Interior. So I would like to finally vote in the general debate that we will return this bill to the committee for a renegotiation. [[15.20 hours]] I think that, of course, the most correct continuation, when we want to establish something like this, would also be to amend the criminal code and admit that a repeated offence in these areas becomes a criminal offence and is the penalty for it. Otherwise, it's really just a register for the registry and from the point of view of the government fired 30 million for setting up such a registry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u15	Thank you. I'm registering your proposal that if you don't mind, I'll just correct the paragraph. It is Section 94 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 - Return of the bill to the guarantee committee for discussion. I have here the factual remarks of Mr Kalousek and then of Mrs Válková. [[Ambassador Benda wants to speak again.]] Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u16	Madam Vice-President, of course you're right about the guarantee committee. However, Article 93 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty does not apply. 2 talks about this being a return after a general debate. The paragraph you quoted speaks after a detailed debate. I recommended that we return the bill after the general debate, so I dare say that I am right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u17	So after the general debate, okay. It's okay, it's okay. Thank you. prosit, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to support the words of my previous speaker on the proposal for a return to recast. It's probably fair here to admit that I have a conflict of interest. I slap somebody every now and then, which is an offense against civil coexistence, and if I'm convicted or convicted, then without protests, I pay a fine at the relevant city office. If this proposal is enacted, I will pay a much greater fine as a repeat offense of this type and will be discriminated against by my colleagues who do not pay for the first time and none of them can. While I, as a decent and decent citizen, will pay them, if they haven't paid $2,000, they won't pay $10,000. Why should they pay? It only affects those who, even if they have done something wrong, have respect for the law and are then ready to pay for it too. Those who have no respect for the law and aren't ready to pay, they won't get it at all, they'll laugh about it. In other words, if this is not really accompanied by an amendment to the Penal Code that a repeated offence can become a criminal offence under those and those circumstances, then it is a standard that punishes the more responsible ones. He doesn't punish the irresponsible at all. And above all, he's interested in controlling everyone for everything without the competent authority knowing why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u19	Thank you, and now please, with the factual Mrs Válková, Mr Schwarz will be prepared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u20	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely pointing out the amended wording of § 205 para. 2 criminal code - theft, which of course needs knowledge of previous offences because there is punished or convicted three times. [[with emphasis]] This means that, when you look at this text, at least the minor property crime mentioned by the rapporteur here and, in turn, by the Minister, it also requires that these offences be registered, otherwise, in essence, this amended - it is a fundamental fact, there are two in that paragraph - the criminal code misses its effect precisely from the lack of records of the most minor offences that are offences. So at least that's why the offenses, virtually. Small property crimes, account for up to 80 per cent of all crime in some age categories, the general criminality investigated by the police. That is why I think it is desirable, beyond any doubt, for us to approve the bill tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u21	Thank you. And now, please, with the rapporteur's priority right, then Mr Tejc will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u22	Good afternoon again, Madam Vice-President, colleagues. I don't want to speak for the Minister. Even if it's not right, I'm gonna use the fact that I'm the rapporteur, and I'd like a little bit of practice. doktorka Válková took a piece from me of what I wanted to tell you about the crime. And now for my colleague Benda. It's not at all true that the criminal record was created only to punish those who do offenses criminally. I'm rather sorry about the matter with my colleague that his colleague was putting them together, and she put a lot of effort into it - Mrs Řápková, Mayor Chomutova, because she was worried about something else. And I'll try to tell you now - for those who are polite, as Kalousek says, who have no offenses. And I'm gonna say it to myself. You know, we've all been driving in the past, we've been speeding sometimes, and if we didn't have registered traffic violations, no one, especially me, would cure us from that speed. I would still drive very fast. But we have the register today. So if the traffic police stop me today, litoměřická, pražská or jihlavská, then I have the points. I'm gonna pick up six of those points, and I'm a little calmer now, 'cause it's known about me. In the past, I was given a Jihlava transport, litoměřická, they knew nothing about me, and I could claim that the police had stopped me for the first time, and I would pay every day for speed. Something like that is the criminal record. You know, it's sad when a policeman or an officer in Chomutov, Most, Prague, Jihlava in one week punishes a man, each time he gives him a fine for stealing one vodka somewhere in a hypermarket, and he doesn't even know it's a multiple offense, because it even makes a living. For this reason, it was - or is created, I hope it will be - a criminal record. Mr. Kalousek just said it right here. That's the thing that's been regretting me all along. People cursed, even cops in the past, that gypsies - you call them inadaptable - wouldn't pay because they don't, and that they'd just pay the polite one. You know, it depends on the policeman, the officer, how he's gonna handle it. If he follows all the laws and rules in force, the fine will be fined. He has to make use of the laws and guidelines in detail, and he can't just want to pick out quotes on the decent ones. Even if a misdemeanor does both in traffic or in property and the one who allegedly doesn't have it, I just have to really use the details of the thing I can. This depends on the municipality and on the local police department, how the superiors react. But if, of course, it's nicer to choose both property and transportation on a man's movable, I understand that. But it works on the real estate if it hurts the decent by stealing from them, etc. That's why. Finally, I would like to ask one more time. Indeed, the record of offenses does not come into practice simply to lock up those who commit offenses at all costs, but also to know that they are committed throughout the Republic. And it was important, just in case they wanted a gun card so we could know that they were disrupting civil coexistence or stealing cities. Or in case they want a different statement. I'd like to comment on customs, and this is where it went down, I suppose the Minister will say it himself. It's all a thing I've been through. You know, I don't think that if the customs administration is working closely with the police today, which is finally a good thing -- in the past she also worked, I'm not saying no, it wasn't just an invention of the current government, but the practice was. But if such a customs officer looks into offenses, often the law enforcement authorities have thrown some crimes or marked things into offenses. I think it was during the sale of fake stamps or fake goods that a lot of felonies went into misdemeanors. So I think it's time for the customs authorities to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u23	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Chovanec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, to Mr Benda. I have said here that the constitutional committee has tabled amendments to the bill and that I agree with a number of these proposals. Those I disagree with were three. With regard to the question of the Customs Administration - for Mr Komárek through Madam President, although he is not here. Thus, the fact that customs authorities and the Financial Directorate had got there was based on a fundamental comment from the Ministry of Finance, which justified this primarily by the fact that the Financial and Customs Administration verified the credibility of persons in tax proceedings. I have no reason to doubt that these authorities should exploit or overuse this information. I don't know. [[15.30 hours]] The rapporteur here spoke of a single record. If we had this unified record, maybe when the Uhersky Brod gunman's license was issued, we might have acted differently if we knew what was in the file. It's a five-year question. It serves, for example, precisely for the extension of weapons licenses. The period of five years is also primarily to know about the person, to know his history, for example when he wants to issue or renew his gun licence, and to make the information about him accessible in any place in the Czech Republic, even if he happened to have moved a month or two or three ago. The municipalities and their costs - for a colleague. We expect that municipalities will only write into this register, that is, there will be no huge costs. Only the existing register, which should be managed by the Ministry of Justice, is designed to be de facto suspended under a criminal record, so only the offences committed by the offenders on their cadaster and passed administrative proceedings will be written there. This does not apply to legal persons because legal persons do not commit offences and therefore should not be registered or cannot be registered. What Mr Benda spoke of through Madam President, in the past, the Government and the Legislative Council of the Government have rejected de facto criminalising these offences and tipping them into criminal acts automatically. That's the answer I can give you. Again, I agree with most of the proposals of the Constitutional Legal Committee, and we agree, I was merely commenting on the violations in the fishing sector. Undersized fish or poaching is a violation of the law. That's just the way it is. It's not about catching an undersized fish. Catching and letting go doesn't mean committing a misdemeanor, but catching and leaving them with a misdemeanor. As regards the launch of the Financial Administration, which is one of the proposals of the Constitutional Legal Committee, I have commented here. And in that third case, in relation to the differing opinion between the Ministry of the Interior and the Constitutional Legal Committee, it is precisely the debate on the amendment of Section 72 of the Criminal Code, where I said that the party to the infringement proceedings was damaged, and if it is decided on his claim for damages, which he applied in the proceedings. These are three different views between the Constitutional Committee and the Ministry of the Interior, which I represent here. Thank you for your attention and your debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u25	Good afternoon. I thank the Minister for his comment. Next in line is Mr. Jeroným Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for accepting most of the comments already made at the committee meeting. I think it will be time for us to say, on the basis of today's debate, within the framework of the Guarantee Committee, if we are determined by the Guarantee Committee, what positions on individual amendments will eventually be, and I think we can still debate a number of them. They certainly include the possibility of financial and customs authorities looking into the register, because one thing is the general possibility that we will give by this law, and the other is that we want to know, and that is what we did not research when we asked the petitioners at the committee meeting, where in particular, in which cases, and I think that we can still clarify this and on this basis certainly the House will decide. I'd like to say that there's definitely a point in the law. Personally, I am also a supporter of adopting a harder version of the law, to make it clear in this context that repeated offenses in some cases can simply be a criminal offence because those who refuse to pay fines or commit offenses knowing that there is nothing the state can do about them anyway will feel no higher punishment. But in relation to what the Minister has already said, there is a certain principle of restraint, there is to be a subsidiarity of criminal repression, and therefore a criminal right is only to come in when other means fail. In my opinion, the best solution would be to allow for the extension of this register in some cases in the future, respectively. repetition of offences, such as the possibility of an assessment in the case of criminal offences where there would be a threat of house arrest. It is not possible to prepare an amendment now, nor could the Ministry of the Interior present the version, because there is no electronic monitoring system at the Ministry of Justice that would allow all offenders to comply with the conditions of house arrest at that time. If the electronic system had not been created, it would have to follow the current practice, which is the inspection of the probation and mediation services. It's beyond its limits. Basically, judges themselves do not impose house arrest sentences precisely because the system is not electronic because it can be leaky. I am convinced that the only solution is the establishment of an electronic system, and after a year, two or three of the functioning of the criminal record, we can tell ourselves in which cases it would be appropriate for offences to be repeated, and what repetition, at what time, of a criminal offence, and whether there could be a threat of house arrest. I think that for some rioters who repeatedly disrupt the peace of the night of others who want to sleep before their day of work, or for those who fail to respect the basics of decent behavior and repeatedly commit offenses against civil coexistence, that would certainly be a harsher punishment than a fine they will not pay anyway. So in that sense, I also believe that the proposal should be much harder, but I understand why the Home Office has not submitted it. If the Ministry of Justice is not prepared, such a proposal could not, in principle, be operational. And now for the second reason that the register is needed, and I would mention the law on weapons and ammunition. It's been dropped a couple of times. At this point, if someone wants to get a gun license, they have to be blameless, which means they can't commit any crime, and in this case we have a criminal record, we don't have a record of offenses, virtually. a record of offences that would show what offences were committed. And, of course, if a person is moving across a larger territory, he is committing offences in other municipalities, so it was not technically possible today and always detectable that he has fulfilled, virtually. failed to meet the conditions for obtaining the licence, or should lose the licence. So the new registry will record these remaining offences, which are not yet recorded in other registers, typically against public policy, offenses against civil coexistence, property violations, and others, and the moment that two offences are committed during that period, the police will automatically have information that they are to initiate a withdrawal procedure. I am convinced that the system that the law gives us is sufficient, but unfortunately not fully functional and the register is functional. I think that these are basically essential things that all colleagues here have already mentioned. For non-property damage, I think we all understand that this will bring another bureaucratic burden. However, it is a question, and it was a debate that took place on the committee, whether it should be a participant in the quotation marks that was only stolen, but it should not be a participant in the one that was damaged to health, whether there is a certain discrepancy and whether both of them should not be a party to the proceedings. So in this sense, we have decided this way, and I believe that there will still be time before the third reading to discuss the situation. But I'm convinced that the law makes sense, and I don't think it would return, virtually. the repetition of second reading and committee discussions has been able to bring something new in this matter, and I am in favour of dealing with the third reading vote on the proposal and those that will be put forward today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u27	Thank you, Mr Tejc. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Ondráček, followed by Mr Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, the Minister has mentioned three basic points here why the Ministry of the Interior does not agree with some of the amendments adopted by the Constitutional Committee, and also mentioned Section 72, which was partly justified by the President of the Constitutional Committee, Jeroným Tejc. It is a bit of a wonder - we may have to want the Minister himself to go to the Constitutional Legal Committee, not just his deputy, or the directors of the trade unions, because in the report given by the Ministry of the Interior to the Constitutional Legal Committee on individual amendments, the original amendment, which sounded a little different, amended to suit the legislation of the Ministry of the Interior, so that they would not have more or less substantial opposition to such an amendment being adopted, with a justification, as Jeroný Tejc said, on the disproportion between the injured, who suffered property damage, and the injured, who suffered material damage. I was a little surprised by the reasons why the authorities of each municipality should not want to extend these persons in § 72, i.e. by the parties to the proceedings. Statement by the Ministry of the Interior that such a decision is in our opinion out of control - and I quote now from the report by the Ministry of the Interior - by the knowledge and ability of the officials and would significantly burden the negotiation of offences. Well, I think we've adopted a service law and we're saying that we have high-quality officials, and here the Home Office says that we have officials who are neither knowledgeable nor capable of discussing matters in administrative proceedings, and for them, the difference is whether someone has suffered material damage or material damage. This is merely a reference to this - parties to the proceedings, § 72. I can, of course, agree with the Minister that some of the amendments adopted by the Constitutional Legal Committee are not entirely ideal, for example, that poaching has fallen out, because even if someone is illegally hunting animals, it is in a way a property offence. It's a forest pride. He does so for a reason to contribute something to himself, or then he sold the animal caught somewhere in the restaurant or somewhere else and enriched himself with it. I can't agree with the Minister's interpretation, which says - Minister, now maybe I'll give you some instruction in the right, and maybe your colleague will tell you - there's no offense if someone catches the fish and lets it go again because you said if they catch it and throw it back into the stream or the pond, it's not a misdemeanor. No, it's not. The transfer in Section 35 (b) of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union shall be suspended from the date of entry into force of the Act of Not hunting. That means it's a pre-final offense as well as a felony. So even if you stand up with a stick or a poacher, and you try to hunt, you're already committing a misdemeanor, and it doesn't matter if you've caught or caught anything. But that's for interpretation, as our law of misdemeanor sounds, § 35 para. Article 4 (1) (a) f), and the same in the crime of poaching. That's just the way it is. That the record of offences is necessary, of course, because whoever encounters offences and offenders and knows the security services, or the activities of the municipal and municipal police and the Police of the Czech Republic as such, knows that it will of course help them. Unfortunately - and this has also been dealt with on the Constitutional Legal Committee - the amendment to the Criminal Law is merely substantive. You can increase sanctions, you can make a fine of CZK 1,000 fine on the spot paid CZK 5,000, you can increase it from four to ten in administrative proceedings, you can do anything in the course of a relapse, that is, as it is now stated in offenses against property and against civil coexistence, who will repeatedly do so, that the rate will increase by up to 50 per cent during the second hearing. That's beautiful, but take a hair on your hand when it's just not there. So even on the Constitutional Legal Committee, we told you in the second round, focus on the Ministry of the Interior, and there devote your energy to the enforcement of the law as such, because if you ask the officials of the municipalities with extended scope, how they are dealt with infractions and not moving the time limit to a hearing from one to two years, as it is now approved in the Constitutional Legal Committee, it doesn't really solve anything. They need an effective misdemeanor law, which would also address the process and the enforcement of the law itself. Without this, any sanctions remain only on paper and are useless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u29	I thank Mr Ondráček. Now with priority rights, Mr. Home Secretary. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u30	Mr President, colleagues, I have been a passionate fisherman and my own fishing ticket for years. Mr President, the fact that someone exercises the right to fish without a valid fishing licence is, of course, an offence, but also within the framework of the fishing rules and the exercise of the fishing right to possess the undersized fish is at least a violation of the fishing right. I was merely paraphrasing the headlines of some media that actually said that owning or catching an undersized fish would be a misdemeanor. Well, of course it won't. Thank you for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u31	Thank you, Minister. Another duly signed up is Mr Vondráček, followed by Mr Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'm not moving this fishing debate any further, my contribution is about something else. I will then sign up in a detailed debate to the amendment that I have adopted. And I liked to adopt it. It is an amendment prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, and the aim of this amendment is to enable citizens to request an extract from the criminal record through the data box. This means by means of the tools that we already have today, by means of an application placed on the public administration website, it will be possible to request an extract from the criminal record by means of a verified identity from the data box. This is certainly useful information or a useful option. We don't have to go around offices, we don't have to visit contact points. This proposal was not discussed on the Constitutional Legal Committee because it was submitted from the Ministry after the discussion in the ÚPV. I therefore consider it correct to mention it here in the general debate, or if anyone would like to say something about it. After this introduction, I will join him in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u33	I thank Mr Vondráček. Another duly registered member is Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u34	Dear Minister, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going back to the fishing process, because I am also - and I admit it publicly - a passionate fisherman, still to this day without a committed offense. But it can be very simple for a person to commit such an offence. I don't know who really studied it properly and in detail, but there are such offences as "he doesn't have the necessary papers on him or on demand." For this offence, the penalty is max. 1,500 crowns. For example, that's the offense that you have all the papers and forget to write down the territory you're catching. And this is supposed to be hanging for five years at the Ministry of the Interior, and if the customs department wants to go check if I'm a trustworthy person, then they're gonna go see if I happened four years ago to forget to sign up the fishing grounds. It just seems absurd to me. You may think it's not absurd, but it seems absurd to me. Plus, frankly, those fishermen got there for one reason, because if I want to be a city cop, I have to prove in an affidavit that I don't have crimes committed in the fishing sector. In a lot of other areas, I can have the offenses committed. [[Objection from the O.R.]] Yes, of course I do. In some I have defined it, in some I don't. Fishing is among the defined, I'm making a sworn statement. Someone else felt it was easier if they put it in the register and they could check it out. I'm just asking that we always think about what's going to happen to us in the registers and what's good for us. [[15.50 hours]] I'm quoting only the fishing, but it has to do with other offences. Madam, Ex-minister Válková rightly pointed out here the new wording of § 205, the possibility of repeated petty crime. But we don't even have this in public anymore or in civil coexistence. And if this is going to be worth it, I think we need to bring it into public order and civil coexistence. The fact that repeated infractions of such offenses can lead to more severe sanctions. If I don't do that, it doesn't matter how many tickets I've given them and how many records there are in the registers. Those decent people who once in their lives screw up against civil coexistence, against public order - frankly, committing offenses, banal offenses against public order are not so complicated. All you have to do is come back from the pub from celebrating your son's birth, lightly under the steam, and you commit such a misdemeanor, and you didn't have to break much. It's supposed to be somewhere for five years, and for five years, everyone's gonna go see if I'm the person who's got any... And that's why I was a little angry with the Minister of the Interior for going to the Minister of Finance for funding to say - credibility. But that's credibility? Can they refuse any action in the Financial or Customs Administration or order anything just because they find something like this in the criminal record? If I know the Customs Act and the Financial Law, they can't. It's just so they can be smarter so they can look at this person more suspiciously or more welcomingly. And I don't know if this is the right thing to do, and I don't know if the basic goal that was to punish the rude thing is really fulfilling that every one of us who ever crosses anything will be suspicious and untrustworthy for five years. That's why I asked that we go back to the bill without questioning some of the other theories that I needed longer-term credibility for the gun card, even though I'm not sure that the shooter from Brod had anything in transition if you had checked it out in the past. As far as I know from the public media, he didn't have any offenses, and you wouldn't find anything on him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u35	I thank Mr Benda. Now I have two factual points. First, Mr Schwarz, then Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u36	Good afternoon, everyone, colleagues. I like Mr. Benda's performance. He always says the slightly different side. Now I'm going to raise my voice and remind you of some of them. He said that what's wrong with fishing and that he's terribly surprised that if I catch fish there, that I can get 15 hundred for it, and that it's so weird, unethical or whatever he called it here. I'll just give you a heads-up from my practice and get a picture of yourself. Well, that's a wonder, but why doesn't he wonder that if someone puts a cross on a mirror in their personal car today or hangs their glasses or perfume and stops a cop, that's also a misdemeanor. If the policeman is a stickler, he can say that objects in the vehicle's view are a violation, that he's being prevented, so he can get zero to two grand. More. If the pedestrian goes near the pedestrian crossing today and the pedestrian crossing is less than 50 meters, then please, it's also a misdemeanor, and there's also zero to two thousand. There. If a light bulb pops on my car and a cop stops me and tells me there's no flashlight, which I don't know, it's not with the older cars, it broke while driving, so it's also zero to two grand. And even if your license plate falls off or you haven't checked it, you're threatened with a restraining order or a restraining order. Please, at least in the Chamber of Deputies, if we have laws on the one hand, then we must tell the citizens that they are to follow them, follow them if we do not comply with them, so there is a threat of sanctions for them. I know it's about the fishing, the people. I'm just gonna say maybe a bad thing right now, but I want to say it. You know, ten years ago, 15 years ago, it wasn't that terrible a misdemeanor in quotes, it was fishing, but today, poaching and fishing feeds, it feeds on hordes of people who go fishing and sell fish. And that's why I think it's very important that this misdemeanor be on the register, so that the person who needs to look at it or captures it, so that he knows that it's not by chance there, that he didn't accidentally forget the papers - thank you - but that he may have committed the same offense three times. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u37	I thank Mr Schwarz. Mr Heger, Mr Benda, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I don't want to be one of those people who, when they commit an offence, thinks they can talk about what the law is supposed to look like. I'm here to paddle against the speed of 150 on the highways, but also occasionally, every once in a while, I make some misdemeanors. But that's not why I want to get off. I mean, in those violations, my experience with the police is very good, even before I became a famous figure in Prague politics. I've always felt that for decency and decency, things always work out. I think it's possible to look for this approach here, too. I wanted to say that there are certainly a few people in the ranks of the TOP 09 who would support the law. Finally, it was also considered in our electoral programme, and I would like to go to the petitioners to take into account that the law is very necessary from the point of view of many people, very reasonable, the arguments have been raised here, but there are also arguments that need to be recognised as given here by Mr Benda. And that's probably why it would be best if the law started with some certainty and started with quite a generous start, and the offenses were registered for not that extremely long, and not some total banality, if it could be defined in any way. And in this case, to be open to the amendments and give the law a chance to go through clearly, because he should be useful and can gradually be reasonably fine-tuned in the way that the application experience is with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u39	Thank you. Mr Benda, Mr Ivan Adamec, followed by Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u40	I apologize to the rapporteur, who has mentioned some road traffic offences to us here. No doubt he's right. But I didn't say in all my time that a single offense was to be abolished or that sanctions were to be reduced for it. But road traffic violations go on for a year, you get those points back in a year, and not all of them get married. No points are taken for those you've named. I'm not talking about whether misdemeanors are to be affected or not, but if all these offenses are to be conducted in a criminal record, they've been running for five years, and who's supposed to have access to it. And no one has access to the DMV, and it's just doing well, and it's just watching if I've crossed 12 points when I've crossed 12 points, I have to get better. But it's not like there's a register everyone's always looking at.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u41	I thank Mr Benda. Another point of fact, Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u42	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask Mr President very briefly to tell my colleague, whom I very much respect, Mr Heger, that he has never voted for any increase in speed to 150 kilometres. I don't like this simplistic shortcut that journalists use. We only voted on the option here. I'd like you to tell him to understand. Otherwise, I would like the idea of Mr Ondráček's colleague here not to fall into line, because enforcement in a number of cases is more important to us than anything else, because there are a group of people who, of course, do not respond to offenses because they do not pay because they do not have money, and I do not think there will be any educational effect in the register. I think there's a need to consider whether they might be able to work off the offenses or deal with it in a different way. But that's my layman opinion of the mayor of the county city. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u43	I thank Mr Adamc and ask who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, then I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. I will call our fellow Members from the lobby and we will vote on the proposal by Mr Benda, who has proposed to return the bill to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation pursuant to § 93 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on Mr Benda's proposal to refer the bill back to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 95 vote. 122 Members and Members are registered. For 16, against 63, the motion was not accepted. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Benda was the first to enter into a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u44	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would, if I may, only apply to House document 2282, where you have the amendments that I am proposing beyond the constitutional committee. There is also a justification, and I assume that, after a rather comprehensive reasoning in the general debate, I do not need to repeat it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u45	I thank Mr Benda. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u46	I would like, Mr Vice-President, as I have already announced in the debate, to sign up here in a detailed debate for my colleague, Mr Chalupa, for an amendment to the printing of 368, which has been inserted and has the number 2339. Again, it is justified. So I repeat, 2349, my colleague Chalupa's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u47	I thank Mr Schwarz. And the last one entered in the detailed debate is Mr Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u48	I have also already announced, I would like to sign up for an amendment which leads them in the system under number 2350. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-002-008.u49	I thank Mr Vondráček. This was the last application for a detailed debate I have seen so far. Anyone else reporting? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate in detail. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. If that is not the case, I end second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item number
