ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u1	120. Proposal by Members Věra Kovářová, Petr Gazdík and others to issue a law amending Act No. 334/1992 Coll., on the protection of the agricultural soil fund, as amended /house print 543/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 543/1. I ask that Mrs Věra Kovářová make a proposal for the appellants. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund in its current form is wrong. But the law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund can undoubtedly be better. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] That is why I, together with my colleague Gazdík and other Members and Members of our club, have tabled an amendment which removes its shortcomings. Specifically, it responds to them in the following way. First, it facilitates the construction of family houses on pauseable areas when it does not require the approval of the authority to protect the agricultural soil fund. Secondly, it removes the discriminatory adjustment according to which, for the removal of land on which the infrastructure will be built -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u3	Madam, I am very sorry to interrupt you and to ask my colleagues if they have something to say to each other to do so in the foyer, because the noise level is high again. It's okay. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u4	Thank you, so I'll continue with the second point. The amendment removes discriminatory adjustment, according to which the land on which the infrastructure will be built is obliged to pay municipalities and regions, but not a state which alone has a completely incomprehensible exception. Third, the amendment point states that in the case of publicly beneficial buildings in a pawnable area, the levy on permanent removal of agricultural land from the agricultural soil fund is not fixed. Of course, I cannot ignore the fact that the government has made some comments on the amendment, in particular its explanatory report. However, in my opinion, none of them is serious enough to be a stop sign for this proposal at first reading. On the contrary, I believe that most of these comments can be taken into account when discussing the proposal in committees and at second reading, when some may be incorporated in the form of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to a substantive and constructive discussion and I believe that it will lead us to a meaningful outcome. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u5	Thank you, Madame. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Josef Kott. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u6	Hello, Madam President, colleagues. The present proposal concerns, in particular, the part of the law which lays down the conditions for the withdrawal of agricultural land from the agricultural soil fund and the payment for such withdrawal. I'm sure many of you will remember that this is an issue that we have already discussed here in this parliamentary term in the House once before, and the Law on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund after a long debate. As rapporteur here, I must also mention the Government's position, which is disagreeable, because the proposal is contrary to the purpose of the law, i.e. the protection of the agricultural soil fund. The extension of the derogations for the withdrawal of the agricultural soil fund and the payment for such withdrawal would not only eliminate the levies as an economic instrument for the protection of agricultural land, but also that the public administration will not assess these provisions in terms of the protection of the agricultural soil fund. Moreover, in the case of the exemption of road constructions owned by regions or municipalities and public utility buildings, it could be illegal public support, and the proposal can therefore conflict with European law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem that directly affects a number of citizens and also municipalities that have long sought to soften the law. There is an interest in protecting agricultural land with an interest in the development of municipalities, and every step of the way needs to be balanced in the search for an optimal solution. As far as I know, the Ministry of the Environment is preparing such an analysis and we should give sufficient room to prepare it. Otherwise, we risk changing the law and, above all, the conditions for withdrawal without due consideration as much as six months, which is, as I'm sure each of us has to recognise, an inconvenient and irresponsible approach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have Mr Bendl, Mr Zemk, and Mr Gazdík's priority right. Before I give them my word, I have two factual points here, Mrs Chalánková, which I do not see here, so I think by mistake, and Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Minister. I would like to say a few words about the amendment that we are presenting together with colleagues. I think it's worth our further reading about how to change the amendment to the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Soil Fund, because from my experience, I have information from the mayor that people pay unnecessarily for their lands in the garden just to build a family home there. I don't think it's right. In fact, before the amendment to the law, no payments were made, no money for the land use from the agricultural soil fund during the construction of the family house, so this is newly introduced, I recall. And I'm sure it's right that the state doesn't pay for highways or first-class roads from the agricultural soil fund, but I don't think the municipalities or regions should either, for a simple reason. Communication, which builds municipalities and which builds regions, is also beneficial to the public. So why should the state take money from municipalities and cities? We should all think about this, too, because on the one hand, we are giving citizens different advantages, the opportunity to obtain funding, whether on social or health, or on sick leave, on the other hand, we are going to pull it out of citizens by paying unnecessary money for the farm farm fund. There are municipalities in it, too. I believe you will release the amendment and support the changes we propose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for respecting the time limit. Now please, with Mr Gazdík's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u10	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. First of all, I thank all those who supported and agreed to include this item on the agenda. The Agricultural Soil Fund is a category which certainly deserves a deep discussion. On the one hand, there is a mass land loss in the Czech Republic, which is really alarming and serious. However, I believe that we have gone back to the opposite extreme by our law, which this House adopted in the spring of this year. Hundreds and thousands of young families who are now in an imprudent situation because they bought the land and are supposed to pay tens of thousands, but mostly hundreds of thousands, for exempting from the agricultural soil fund, are in a very difficult situation. And I therefore very much ask you to start discussing this matter so that we can move this bill to second reading, where coalitions and oppositions - because this is not a classic political theme, this is about the sustainability of the agricultural soil fund and, at the same time, some elementary social feelings towards young families, the development of municipalities, because if we do not change the law, we will stop the development of many communities and start creating a deep social problem for the next decade. Therefore, I beg you to be released for the second reading of this bill. Finally, I would like to thank the leadership of the House and the chairmen of the MPs who took part in the House's exit meeting in the Pardubice Region, where, from around 120 mayors, they have clearly heard the view that this is their priority and that is what makes them the most difficult today. I beg you to take that into account, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u11	Thank you and I will ask for Mr Bendl's microphone, Mr Zemek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u12	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, it wasn't so long ago that we were discussing the law on the agricultural land fund here. Not that at this time, but it may be a few months, maybe weeks, when we discussed this law, and where many of us tried to explain to those who then pushed through another text that the Act on the exclusion from the agricultural soil fund is purely a tax collector, but that the one who effectively limits, whether the agricultural soil fund will be built up in the future and to reduce its quantity in the territory of the Czech Republic, this instrument is a territorial plan. [[16.40 hours]] It's a zoning plan. Those of you who have ever sat as representatives of individual municipalities or cities know well that the zoning plan is spoken of by all the central state authorities concerned and that they have the right there, and almost when the Ministry of the Environment says something very often, it is probably almost the right of the veto, because when it says that there is a train going somewhere, that there is simply no way that this doesn't happen, that this will not be allowed to build one or another territory, it will usually happen. 98 percent. I say this with the knowledge that sometimes it happens that the municipality in the debate with the state body concerned, whether it is a nature conservation authority or, in particular, the Ministry of Environment or the Ministry of Regional Development, there is simply a debate over the zoning plan whether some territory is used to develop a new community or an industrial zone, or I will say in reverse, some area that will benefit the public or the environment as such, whether there will be construction of ponds and the like. And this is always in the symbiosis of individual state bodies and at the same time the municipal councils concerned. We are in the law - or the Chamber of Deputies, I must say, I did not vote in favour of the law and only later voted in favour of at least a milder, more sensible version, which the Senate presented to us when it returned this bill to us. We have made the country more expensive, or the Chamber of Deputies has made exemption from the agricultural soil fund more expensive, regardless of what areas of people's lives this will affect. What my previous speakers said here is true. There has been a significant increase in the construction of family housing, as only the territory which is physically built by the building or garage, etc., is no longer included in the fees for exemption from the agricultural soil fund, but the whole garden. If somewhere, the municipality simply agrees that in some place there will be a possibility of building new family houses in the future, then you who voted in favour of it in the Chamber of Deputies said: but we will make it more expensive for them and we will give them their gardens. People, or mayors, of course, after the law hit the public sphere, immediately noticed and rightly asked us, and I believe that you too, why did it go to yesterday so that they could, when they borrowed some money to build a family home, why suddenly, what was so horrible, why should they pay the extra hundred thousand, which, of course, they didn't count on most of the time. I'm just answering this: well, he just needs the state register, or the finance minister needs more money and he's afraid to do it differently, so he's making it expensive in this way without thinking about what it's really about, or maybe the Environment Minister doesn't know that when he agreed, for example, to this amendment to the Agricultural Soil Fund Act, that it also made constructions more expensive - in construction quotation marks - which, for example, relate to positive things from the environment. Because if we were opening up a drought here and we said that we wanted to strengthen water in the landscape and so on, so if anyone wants to build a pond or a water pool, everything that is in accordance with the construction law, well, of course, other and relatively significant amounts of exemption from the agricultural soil fund pay. Against the sense that we say we need to get water into the countryside and that we would get back, and I very much agree with this - and the state here is thinking of where to get the money to support this kind of activity, so we are backwards, or those of you who voted for the law have made such investments in the environment more expensive. That sounds to me like absolute nonsense, stupidity that we can eliminate together and return it to the level to which it belongs. This means, for areas that are in favour of environmental protection, such as the construction of a new pond and the obligation to set aside from the agricultural soil fund from such a construction, or to allow or count into the exclusion from the agricultural soil fund of a specific building, and not the whole garden, or, on the contrary, for public utility buildings, that is what I believe the Senate wisely turned to us, where we are here inventing how to help cities and municipalities to have on pavements, roads, public utility structures, even the state orders them that some of the public utility structures need to be done - now it is happening in the area of social matters and such housing, social housing - and, at the same time, we say to the municipalities: but you will pay ten times as much for exemption from the agricultural land fund in case the construction was not there. So we're, like, scratching each other's right hand behind the left ear and figuring out how to get a grant for something that we've made more expensive for these towns and villages ourselves. That sounds like absolute stupidity to me. And we can correct that in the amendment to this law, if that's what you want, of course. I thank all those who have decided to include this bill in today's meeting so that they can't make excuses for not knowing. I do not agree with the view that it is necessary to verify whether it is necessary or not, because we had it here a few weeks ago, the law, and I think we have all the specific information on it. I don't know what the state authorities will come up with in some way, rather, in cooperation with the Union of Cities and Cities or, in general, with municipalities and cities, we should advise, preferably on the Committee on Public Administration, Regional Development and, of course, the Committee on the Environment or others, how to balance the standard so as to help where it is supposed to help and protect the agricultural soil fund where it really is supposed to protect it. What we did, we did something that... spilled a baby with a bathtub. And one last point, because I heard the proposal here, I assume it was written by the Ministry of the Environment to the Member who spoke here first, because, as he read it, it was obvious that too much of the topic - that it was not entirely his own and that someone wrote it to him. It is not true that there has been any unjustified support from the point of view of the European Union. In that law, as it was previously written, the European Union has never torpedoed this in this regard. And I think that we are there in public constructions, things that concern housing support, where we generally invent a number of funds and various reliefs so that people can build their housing, that the European Union would certainly not contradict us. It's up to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u13	I thank you and ask for Mr Zemk's microphone, Mr Okleštěk will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u14	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, once again, we have a law amendment or a bill amendment that is a bit emotional, and unfortunately it is one of the types where different public interests confront each other. On the one hand, we have a public interest in protecting the soil fund, on the other hand, we have an interest in developing municipalities, construction. But unfortunately, it's a political matter, we're gonna have to decide what we're gonna do about it. The Law on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund is a law that aims to protect the Agricultural Soil Fund. One of the tools that is there is a charging system that is designed to motivate actually builders or investors to primarily use areas that are less valuable, where there are, for example, no reservoirs of water resources, where soil quality is worse and so on. Today, there are many exceptions to the amendment that has taken place here, and the proposed amendment, which is here from the workshop of opposition Members, actually extends the exceptions to other entities and other constructions. Basically, the main group - there is construction for housing, it is not specified how, but there is construction for housing, where it allows a zoning plan, which is a very broad concept. I understand, of course, that the need is there, certainly, many people fell quite innocently, as has been said here several times, they had the land, in good faith they simply bought it, that it was intended for construction, and now suddenly they have to pay some sum that arose to them and which, of course, will make the building more expensive for them. [[16.50 hours]] On the other hand, we have a public interest in protecting the agricultural soil fund. And we all understand that we can't just continue to expand villages or communities forever. There's got to be a line somewhere, and there's got to be regulation somewhere. I've registered here, I think, with the previous speaker, if I've heard it correctly, it's being removed from the farm's soil fund by the entire garden. I don't know, I read the original law, and there's really only the concrete that's going to stand there. Of course, a builder who builds a large flat house with two garages, with a pool, with a gazebo, then, of course, pays more than one who builds a classic house with a rectangular floor plan with a saddle roof. That's logical. Then, of course, when we have land on one of the bonitas and at the same time there's a reservoir of groundwater, that's also multiplying. So these are kind of conflicts of interest that are here. I'm not sure it's entirely happy to give such a global exception. During the last parliamentary term, there was a little bit of a game on the part of the coalition parties, when one of the coalition Members spoke and declared that the law is not comprehensive and proposes to return to the drafting process. Of course I won't do it. On the contrary, I think we should put it into second reading, discuss it in committees, and try to find a solution so that we can find some acceptable compromise for young families who want to build there, so that it doesn't ruin them. I think that even the principle should be based more on the overall built-up area, that the fee should somehow be graduated, but rather not leaning to the view that it should be done in the form of an exception for all the builders. There may be a gap. We know a tragic case in the vicinity of Prague, where development projects, which stopped the landscape without thinking about it, created various conflict situations and today there are no kindergartens, there are no communication and it is a rough example of how it should not look. I wouldn't want the law on the protection of the soil fund to lose its meaning. If we were to implement other and other exceptions there, this would actually happen. I'm interrogating myself for second reading. I propose that this be ordered by the Committee on the Environment. And since this is not a law that went through an inter-ministerial settlement, I would like to propose an extension of the deadline for a 90-day hearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u15	Thank you. I have three factual points here. First I'll ask for Mr. Bendl's microphone. Mr Novotný will be ready and then Mrs Kovářová, the draftsman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u16	I would like to thank you for the words of the previous speaker, because I respect my colleague Zemk. I hope it's not the kiss of death when he said he wanted the bill to go to second reading. Because I have to say to my colleagues, there's something else, or there's another money like I'll say a hundred thousand crowns on the edge of Prague and something else like a hundred thousand crowns in Podkrkonoší. I think those of you who know the pay gap know what I'm talking about. The moment we took it so hard, we did something to make the rich really uncomfortable. I'm surprised. It's basically not for them. But what you've done is, not that you've stopped it, but that you've only made it expensive. More will be chosen. But they'll stop anyway. That's what I need to say. If you don't stop and you really want to protect the farmland fund, then the Ministry of the Environment is supposed to say, "No, I don't agree, it's not gonna be built here. But you're saying, "He's not gonna build here, but if you pay extra, you can do whatever you want here, it doesn't matter." That's not protection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u17	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Novotný, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see what has briefly been mentioned here by my colleague Bendl in the debate, and these are the complex processes which are linked to the creation of territorial plans for cities and municipalities in our country and to negotiations with the authorities for the protection of the agricultural soil fund on this matter. A lot of major cities at this point either have been through the process of preparing new territorial plans, or this process is underway. These negotiations are very complex. They contain various analyses concerning both environmental issues and its protection, as well as demographic analyses, economic analyses. The number of underlying materials and the magnitude of the huge administration associated with it, in order to create some new built-up area for housing development, the mechanism is extremely complex. Whoever's been through this has a hunch. In this respect, I do not really see the rationality of the state showing or implementing protection in several stages, and when the institutions it has set up apply its arguments, and mostly, as my colleague Bendl has said, it will actually assert its own, and I do not know whether the percentages are two, when they fail or how many, but I myself have experienced that it is almost impossible to enforce anything, including enforcement, I do not know, the development of scientific institutions and the like, against the will of these institutions. In that sense, the sense of the two-stage regulation on the one hand, let's say, the content, the professional competent authority, and on the other hand, I do not see the economics. I think it would be good for the citizens of the Czech Republic to have a simple transparent environment in which, at the time they buy land, they know that this is an unstoppable location. And other complications, other and other complications that would relativize it, whether in the form of economic regulation or others, I already consider it meaningless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u19	Thank you, and now, please, Mrs Kovářová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u20	I would like to thank Mr Zemek for proposing and recommending the release of this amendment to second reading, because it has been said here, it is necessary to discuss this subject. It should be noted that the territorial plans, where the areas are patronising, have undergone a long approval process and it is not possible to change the conditions under which the citizens purchased the land during the process. It is also true, however, that stories are sad, when the municipality networks land from the subsidy, sells the citizen for 350 grand, and then the citizen finds that 400 thousand must pay for the exemption from the agricultural soil fund. We can discuss more cases in detail in committees and leave room for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u21	Thank you. Now, please contact Mr Oklešťek's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, fellow Members, first of all, I would like to mention that this law is actually about protecting the soil fund. The mission to protect the soil fund - for this we have first and foremost territorial planning and there the authorities that serve to protect the soil fund. I therefore also agree with the comments of my colleagues that, first and foremost, it is necessary to discuss properly with the soil fund protection authorities in the planning process. Then we get into a situation where municipalities plan something and have a problem with their own soil fund. That is why I see the current law by increasing the exemption fee from the agricultural soil fund in intraviles, but already in the territorial plans of the parcels entered. So there really is a significant price there. So I, for my part, hope that even for my fellow Members, am intercede to release this amendment for second reading and then to discuss it properly in the committees and to take a position on it as we feel it. But in the first stage, I strongly agree with the release for second reading and the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u23	Thank you and please another duly registered, and that is Mr Kudela. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u24	Good afternoon, Madam President, fellow Members. I had the honour of attending last week's meeting of the Grémia House in the Pardubice Region on Monday, when the mayors involved in this meeting had one big request to amend the Law on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund at a point where the exemption from the agricultural soil fund for housing within the municipalities is significantly more expensive. At the time, as one man, including Mrs Chalánková, we were suffocating that we would be dealing with this issue and, at the earliest opportunity, we would try to adjust it so as not to prevent the construction of family houses in intravilán. We also discussed this at the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club and we are inclined to release this bill to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u25	I thank the honourable Member and ask if anyone else is still taking part in the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the appellant if she is interested in the final word. [[Yes.]] Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u26	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, we have heard a number of ideas and ideas here, and I think it is good that they have come from different sides of the political spectrum. I therefore ask you once again to support and release to second reading, and I hope that we can find some solution in the committees that will benefit everyone - both environmental protection and our citizens, municipalities and regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u27	Thank you and I now ask the rapporteur for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u28	Madam President, seven colleagues spoke in the debate at first reading, apart from the petitioner, neither proposed the rejection of the law nor the return to recast. I have registered the requirement of the commandment in addition to the agricultural committee as a guarantee further to the Committee on the Environment, and I would also like to propose the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. In addition, there has been a proposal for an extension of the deadline to 90 days, and if this had not been adopted, I propose an extension of the time limit for a committee hearing by 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u29	Thank you. As for the other committees, I will ask you to reload them during the vote. Mr Bendl has a factual comment, but unfortunately we are out of the debate, so that is not possible, and I will delete you with your factual comment. We will therefore continue to vote on the next procedure. There was no motion to return or refuse. In that case, we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. [[There's a messenger calling for a word. Bendl.]] If you want to propose another guarantee committee, in which case yes, you can suggest another guarantee committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u30	Thank you for the floor. I do not want to take the work of the agricultural committee, but I think that the guarantee committee in this case should be a committee on public administration and regional development rather than an agricultural committee. Unfortunately, the President of the Agricultural Committee is not here, but I would like to propose that the Guarantee Committee be the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u31	Okay. I'm registering your proposal. In that case, another motion on the commandment to the guarantee committee. Please. Mr Böhnisch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u32	In that case, if there is to be a duel, I suggest that the Committee on the Environment be the guarantee committee for the discussion of this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u33	Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u34	Mr Vice-President, you have referred to the President of the Agricultural Committee -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u35	Not me. I think my colleague Bendl called.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u36	Sorry. The President of the Agricultural Committee has been summoned here. As Vice-President of the Agricultural Committee, I insist that the Guarantee Committee be the Agricultural Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u37	Thank you. At this point, I'm registering three proposals for a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposes an agricultural committee, and then I have Mr Bendl's proposal on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and Mr Böhnisch, as a guarantee committee, proposes the environment. I wonder if there are any other suggestions for the commandment to the guarantee committee. This is not the case, in which case we will continue to vote on the agricultural committee first, as proposed by the President, and then we will vote on alternative proposals. Mr. Vilímec reporting to me here with a point of fact? It's not like that. I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of the commandment to the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee for this press. Who opposes this proposal? We have a vote with order number 154, 164 Members and Members signed in, for proposal 131, against 5. I note that the proposal has been approved and this press has been directed to the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. I therefore ask you now for your proposals on the commandments for the other committees. Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u38	So, in order to be granted, I propose that this be the environment and the Committee on Regional Development. I think it's part of both committees. I just want to say to my colleague's comments that if it had not been accepted into the agricultural sector, we would have voted for the environment, for example, because it is really such a weight or regional development, it belongs to all these committees. So those two committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u39	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else has another proposal on the commandment to the committees. I don't see anyone. I record the proposals for the commandments to the Committee on the Environment and Public Administration and Regional Development. There were no other proposals. In that case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the Environment Committee's commandments. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 155; 164 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 143, against 2. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. I therefore now initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of the commandment to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 156; 164 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 137, against 5. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. So we have approved that this press will be assigned to the Committee on the Environment and to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Then there were proposals for an extension of 30 days, but we can only agree to this proposal if the petitioner gives her consent - then I can vote on it. If he does not agree, we will vote on an extension of the negotiations for 20 days. So I'm asking you, Mrs. Probator, if you agree to extend the 30-day hearing period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u40	I don't agree for 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-002-120.u41	Okay. In that case, I shall put to the vote and ask who agrees that the hearing period be extended by 20 days. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 157, registered is 164 Members, for 119, against 22. I note that this proposal has been approved and that the hearing period has been extended by 20 days. I am done discussing this point and thank both the appellant and the rapporteur. [[17.10 hours]] I'm opening another point. That's what it is.
