ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u1	33. Proposal by Members Soňa Marková and Stanislav Mackovík to issue a law amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing some related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house printing 126/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as a House press 126/1. I now ask that Mrs Soňa Marková, Mrs Soňa, put forward the proposal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u2	Thank you for the floor. Have a good evening. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, what you see here before me is such a tiny cake, because the law I intend to present to you today has its year, its annual birthday. [[The MP laid a small fruit cake with a lit candle on the speaker's counter.]] In February 2014, we presented it to this Chamber of Deputies together with others in the KSČM. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] I will then hand him over to the representatives of the government coalition as a reward for their access to opposition bills. The draft law amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing some related laws, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 126. This proposal was therefore launched in February 2014 and was therefore submitted at a time when it had not yet been submitted, let alone approved the proposal of the government coalition. This proposal was designed to disrupt all the so-called regulatory fees, while introducing a limit of CZK 2,500 to cover the supplement for medicinal products and foodstuffs for special medical purposes partially covered by health insurance. The KSČM has long been fully involved in the interests of patients, and therefore repeatedly, for the first time already in 2008, submitted laws and amendments to the Public Health Insurance Act for the complete abolition of the so-called regulatory fees. We are aware, of course, that the current government coalition has already abolished most of these charges, although this has been done in the atmosphere of negative statements made by representatives of part of the current government coalition not only for the already abolished hospitalization fees, but also for health fees as a whole. It is evident that the topic of health fees served as an attraction for trusting voters, but in fact no one wanted to cancel them completely except for the KSČM. To refresh the memory, I merely recall that the Constitutional Court decided on 20 May 2008 on the constitutionality of the introduction of these charges even though they were introduced in an unprecedented manner, by adopting a large amendment tabled only during the second reading of Act No. 261/2007 Coll., on stabilization of public budgets, and it was therefore a typical sticker, i.e. without the possibility of sufficient assessment and discussion in a proper legislative process. He then passed the Senate without even consulting. In its decision-making, the Constitutional Court took advantage of the argument of then Minister of Health Julínek that the only reason for introducing charges is their regulatory effect against overuse of health care. On this basis, the Court of First Instance avoided the objection that care was not payable in the course of its provision by not considering fees for the payment of care but as some kind of legitimate regulation. As an important condition of this legitimacy of charges, he also stated that he must not become a kind of choking obstacle to access to health care. Since then, it has been demonstrated, on many examples, that none of the above conditions of legitimate charging have been complied with and fulfilled. The Constitutional Court itself also urged executives to see if there was any case of strangulation, in quotation marks, and in such a case the legislature should abolish the charges itself. In the end, the Constitutional Court did so in part after Nečasův' government increased the fee for hospitalization from CZK 60 to CZK 100. [[There's noise in the room.]] In our view, the remaining fee, especially for patients who really need healthcare, was actually an unjustified obstacle to accessing this care. This obstacle may also have a discriminatory character because it appears to be minor for some patients, but there is always a certain number of patients who are permanently or currently unable to pay. Since 2000, citizens' health spending has increased more than threefold. People paid more than 40 billion for their health. CZK except for what they pay for health insurance. Of which, in 2012, households issued 5.5 billion. CZK for medical fees, pharmacy and hospital fees. In 2007, when patients had not yet paid regulatory fees, private health spending was 14.8%. After the imposition of the charges, it was 16 per cent. Also, supplements for prescription medications are falling all the time. The participation of patients in many groups -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u3	I apologise, Madame, but I will ask my fellow Members to keep their voice down so that they can hear what you are talking about. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that these words have been spoken many times, but repetition is the mother of wisdom - so it is true. [[Members of the Chalup who sneezed.]] If I go back again to why KSČM proposed and proposed a complete cancellation of all health fees, the reasons were indeed those I have already listed here. I would just like to point out one important thing that the situation of patients has deteriorated as a result of the economic and financial crisis and has also lost the health segment of about 30 billion. Crowns. This is now slowly being corrected, among other things, by increasing payments for state insured persons and improving economic results. Neither information on the contribution of the introduction of the so-called regulatory fees has been and is not supported by any really serious analysis. It is still not clear at all how many people who needed care did not go to the doctor or take the prescribed medicines, to what extent they endangered their health or even life and ultimately will be more expensive for the health system in the future. In our opinion, medical fees were introduced primarily to make patients get used to the fact that health care is a business like any other and that health care must be paid for. This opened the way of change from solidarity health care to all the necessary patients guaranteed by the Constitution of the Czech Republic for paid luxury services only for those who will have sufficient funds. For these reasons, it also started to talk immediately after the introduction of the fee and was partly introduced, if you remember, paid excess standards, further talked about controlled care, various insurance plans according to the payment of insurance premiums, even a multi-thousand-dollar fee for the selection of the operator and so on. [[18.50 hours]] It is worth recalling the basic economic law that fees always regulate only demand, not the supply of health services. If there is a link between the fee and the healthcare facility that collects it, and the law explicitly ordered it, there is a demand for those who collect it so that their patients pay these payments as much as possible. This demand is then the stronger the more other sources of income are threatened, and that is what has happened in the past right-wing governments in the health sector. The former government coalition has set up a murderous mix of restrictive payment orders, raising VAT, inflation, and the negative consequences of its disastrous so-called reforms. The increase in VAT rates, in particular the increase in the reduced rate to 15 per cent in 2013, and the transfer of certain medical devices from reduced to the basic rate of VAT, had a significant impact on the cost increase throughout the health sector. The impact for 2013 for the whole health system was then minus 4 billion. Crowns. On the other hand, the reduction in the VAT rate by one percent, even for medicines issued and paid for as a recipe, means a reduction in the system's burden by 500 million. A year's worth of crowns. For these reasons, which I have listed here, and precisely because we still have one fee left, which we have not yet cancelled, I would like to ask you to release this bill to the second reading. Of course, this bill is no longer up to date, but I am prepared, or the KSČM MP has prepared a comprehensive amendment that would be acceptable in various variants for your approval. First, of course, the maximum is to cancel the entire emergency charge. We consider leaving that one type of regulatory fee to be non-systemic, in addition to the most complicated cases, when the insured person feels the need for health care to be taken out of the standard hours. This opinion is also confirmed by the fact that the situation in which the patient's condition is serious is not affected at all, but cannot be prescribed hospitalization or hospitalization is no longer necessary after an emergency procedure. Nor is it reflected in the situation where maintaining the regulatory fee for emergency services may result in greater abuse of medical emergency services, when a patient calls medical rescue services before he goes to the emergency room and pays 90 CZK of the regulatory fee. The costs for the public health insurance system, as well as the budget of the founders, especially the regions, are then higher and the possible abuse is much harder to prove. Another variant of this comprehensive amendment is that this regulatory fee would be counted to the limit and this limit would subsequently be reduced to half. The third such mildest option is then the possibility to introduce an exception for children under the age of 18 and at the same time to allow doctors to decide to waive this fee if the condition of the insured person was serious enough to justify the use of the emergency but does not follow hospitalization. This is the example that I have actually referred to in the first version of the amendment. I thank you all for your attention and once again I beg you to support this comprehensive amendment and the whole law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u5	I thank you, Madame, and I ask you to take your place as plaintiff. I'm also glad that, while I'm happy with you for celebrating the annual celebration, you've put out the fire early, because I'm not quite sure we can move around in these areas with an open fire. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Igor Nykl, to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u6	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. I see that time is pressing, and I actually confirm that I was working on the news report on this proposal sometime in February last year, and it must be said that it is an evergreen that we have talked about so many times that it does not really deserve much anymore. It should be said that in September at third reading, we abolished the regulatory fees that are mentioned here in this proposal, except for the regulatory emergency charge, which was the only one that turned out to actually regulate something, that is, it is right that it exists. We can discuss how this is to be done, for example, with the Rapid Emergency Service Regulatory Fee, because it seems to be being abused at the moment, but it must be said that this proposal is, in fact, a kind of open door or a weeping on the wrong grave. I see that it is five minutes to the end of the negotiations, or I would like to say that it is pointless to support this proposal at this point, it is good to reject this proposal at first reading, because there has already been so much talk on the Health Committee about the fees and the regulatory fees that no one really wants to say about it anymore. Something else is to say about hospitalization fees, because really the surrounding rich countries have in place hospitalization fees, although they have completely different money in their accounts than they do in the Czech Republic, so that is the issue around which one can talk. We know how the cancellation of hospitalization fees has actually increased the number of patients in long-term hospitals, but at this point, it is probably a shame to talk about regulatory fees. Regarding the protective limit, which is reduced in your proposal, it turns out that the participation of patients in the Czech Republic is actually about 15 percent, so it is actually low compared to the surrounding world. There is no need to reduce the protective limit to the amount of CZK 2.5,000 you proposed. So to put an end to this, I propose that this year's old proposal be rejected in the first reading and dot at this point in time for the issue of regulatory fees in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm registering your motion to dismiss. I have two factual points here. So the first is President Okamura, then Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, and then with priority rights, President Kováčik. President Okamura is logged in, but I don't see him here, in which case we are moving on, and another point of fact is made by Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u8	Mr President, fellow Members, I must strongly oppose what Mrs Marková has done here because she has handed over the cake to the President of the Social Democracy Club, and although we are both Náchoďák, I am the highest ranking member of the government and I expected to receive the cake myself! [[Laughter.]] But I know I'm overweight, so I'll take it anyway. I just wanted to point out that although, of course, the Communists have a greater sense of social equality, a hierarchy should still apply, my colleague through Mr President!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. And now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this time I am actually leaning towards what the Vice Prime Minister has said. Indeed, he is a procedurally senior member of the government coalition and chairman of the coalition party, while President Sklenák, with all due respect, is only the President of the MP's club. I would like to say that the Member and the President and Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek need not worry, the cake is fruity, i.e. diet, can accept the offer from Mr. Sklenák. But seriously. The rapporteur is talking about us breaking into an open door. The rapporteur speaks of the need to reject the proposal because it is unnecessary, redundant, something has already been worked out and so on. Not everything worked out, and it was said. But Mrs Marková, by bringing in the symbolic birthday cake, speaks of the fact that the press we are discussing, number 126, is actually a year old. [[19.00 hours]] I mean, he came to the House a year ago. In the meantime, we're at multiple higher prints. And at a time when it was up to date, it was simply, yes, yes, even you members of the government coalition, or I would say that in particular, you did not allow not only this proposal, but also other opposition proposals to be discussed at the time they arrived.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u11	Mr President, I just want to say, for the record, that the 19th hour is up. I'll let you finish your contribution and then I'll stop discussing this point. Does anyone object? Thank you. Please finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u12	I see the 19th hour and keep the Rules of Procedure, so I thank you for your attention and wish you a good evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-018-033.u13	In that case, thank you for your helpfulness, Mr President. I'm interrupting this item and interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you, and I wish you the rest of the day.
