ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-007-191.u1	191. Annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2014 /German press 441/ This House press discussed the election committee, whose resolution was delivered as the House press 441/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the electoral committee, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-007-191.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2014 presents quite undoubtedly the respectable scope and content of the activities of Czech Television, the so-called public service media. However, the electoral committee did not have a simple role to play in assessing this document and the activities of Czech Television and its management or the Council of Czech Television. Perhaps never before have the opinions of the professional public and those who should judge and control the work of Czech Television been as differentiated and often extremely critical as it sounds from experts, but also from the public in recent months. I do not mean to be extreme, so I will stick to the sober opinion of the media expert, Professor Jan Jirák. According to him, 2014 was supposed to be the year for Czech Television - I quote - the year when the changes planned by the CEO were to be made, which should therefore be decided - in the words of Professor Jirák - on his next destiny. The Election Committee therefore faced the obligation to assess according to the submitted report and how Czech Television coped with its public service obligations in 2014, whether the management of Czech Television and its CEO fulfilled certain expectations and promises and in what quality. The year 2014 was full of opinion conflicts and the last months of this year only stressed some problems again. If the year 2014 was to be a year of change for the better, then, I repeat, it is necessary to assess whether the expectations were fulfilled and in what the debts of Czech television to the public persist. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Of course, there are also very radical opinions and opinions that must at least be noted regardless of their extreme positions, because they are not unique and marginal opinions and attitudes, but something that has a clear representation in the public spectrum. That first position was expressed by the President of the Republic in a mutual long-term conflict with the Czech Television, which has been going on since Czech Television and its employees allegedly preferred its opponent. Miloš Zeman said - I quote again: My personal opinion is that Czech television unfortunately does not fulfil its public service function and becomes not only commercial television but even bad commercial television. And he added that it was for the cancellation of licence fees. The second, more restrained, yet very critical opinion, was expressed by the President of the Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies when he publicly indicated that Czech Television had problems in the area of governance and control. He even expressed skepticism about the possibility of the Chamber of Deputies to control anything on the basis of the submitted reports on the management and activities of Czech Television. I quote his words: What I criticize is the work of the Czech Television Council, and I think she is underusing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-007-191.u3	I apologize, rapporteur, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you once again, colleagues and colleagues, for peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-007-191.u4	So I will return to the opinion of the President of the Election Committee: What I criticize is the work of the Czech Television Council, and I think that she is underusing her supervisory powers towards the Director-General. I'm criticizing that. Moreover, I criticize the bad Czech Television Act, which gives too much power to the CEO and gives the board little power. The Council presents absolutely absurd reports to the House, one about activity and one about management, and another half a year apart. There's absolutely no way to check that. Personally, and now I speak for myself, fully respecting the need and irreplaceability of the public service media. That is why I am not and cannot be a supporter of the radical solutions offered by the President of the Republic and a significant part of the Czech right. The liquidation of the public service media is not and cannot be a solution to the media problem. However, I do not want to be as pessimistic as the President of the Election Committee in relation to Czech Television and the Council of Czech Television. I am convinced that according to the reports currently being processed by Czech Television and the Czech Television Council, it is possible to assess, in whole, how Czech Television manages and how it does to the public what the law tells it to do. However, I brát it very seriously from the President of the Election Committee that, according to him, I quote: Czech television is transparent and I do not know whether public funds are spent effectively. We don't have a chance to look into ten million and hundreds of million contracts with private producers. No one can see them, not even the Czech Television Council. I consider it responsible, taking into account the opinion of the committee chair, that the quality and effectiveness of the work of Czech Television and the Czech Television Council cannot be limited to what they themselves submit. I will therefore give the opinion of Professor Jan Jirák of the Faculty of Social Sciences of Charles University, who, as a candidate for the Council of Czech Television, has taken the Czech Television's departure from impartiality and error in the performance of public service obligations. I quote his words: Czech television has passed a period when it really was not completely impartial, but I do not feel that it would be a clear trend towards someone or against someone. Rather, it is a lower level of professionalism that allows various editors to mix their own views into the news. Ladies and gentlemen, if media councils also record increased criticism of both the professional and the wider public, for example, when it comes to news and publicity, it is certainly not a coincidence, but a certain trend. I believe that it is hard to say that it is possible that Czech television with the president, its loyalty or tolerance to selected political orientations and countries, and not perhaps factually critical, but strictly biased media war against others as marked examples, but more generally problems in providing information on a number of domestic topics and topics of European or general international policy were based on the unprofessionality of beautiful young moderators and commentators offered by Czech television to viewers. I certainly do not stand for a simplistic point of view, as if the problems of news and publicity, but also of documentary production should be caused only by the fact that some editors say that they willfully and ignorantly incorporate their own opinions into the news. [[13.00 hours]] When it comes to the issue of soulless advertising and advertising issued as sponsorship messages, I do not think that in the case of public media it is ignorance or inexperience. The management of Czech Television will certainly not deny that it is strongly motivated by the effort to obtain additional funds from advertising. This can't be accepted well enough as a reason to hang on to the public's nose. After all, partial financial gains from direct and hidden or disguised advertising in many cases go or are at the expense of the quality of the public service. Expansion of imposed advertising is restricted and affected by the person who finances Czech television in a decisive way and who should receive a good public service, i.e. a paying spectator. If anyone believes that this is better than before in this area, unfortunately, that does not mean that it is worthy of praise. Of course, what inspired censorship in the 1990s and the outright support and indiscriability of government parties, open to the media war against the opposition as a whole, survived. But that doesn't mean that the new version is what meets the demands of a good public service. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not contributed to the improvement of how this is now strongly resonated in the public, nor the peculiar approaches of Czech television to history from selective and sometimes peculiar direct submission through the selection of those who are primarily told on the order of Czech Television, and what is worse, sometimes through the screen of Czech Television for tolerance or even support of editors and editors literally and to the letter rewriting. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] In conclusion, then. It is certainly not okay if the Council for Radio and Television has to respond to violations of the law on such essential matters as fundamental historical facts. I could now move on to cultural creation and talk long enough to other areas and problems, but I don't want to exhaust your patience. So I'm just going to be very focused on what I've been pointing out more often. One of the most serious mistakes of Czech Television's leadership and the Czech Television Council's leadership is a clear reflection of shortcomings and due to lack of corrective efforts. In this respect, an apology to the public service medium cannot be that printed media or commercial television are generally not apologized or discussed for their mistakes. On the way to quality public service in the case of Czech Television and to gain the confidence of part of dissatisfied public and professional criticism is not maneuvering on the edge or beyond the edges of laws, or until late or even just an alibiist response to an increase in public complaints and professional criticisms. Addressing complaints at the level of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, or even a statement by the Radio and Television Council that the Czech Television has broken the law, suggests that this is lacking in the basic, and that is the need for a fair communication with the dissatisfied public and public debate on how Czech Television fulfils the public service obligation, but also the ability and will of Czech Television to openly admit errors and correct missteps. If the President of the Election Committee is thus fatally lacking insight into the Czech Television's economy, and if the public or journalists are sometimes difficult to demand information against the leadership of Czech Television and against the alibis of the Czech Television Council, it is appropriate to look for an effective solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, after hearing the opening words of the Vice-President of the Council of the Czech Television, engineer Jan Bednář, report by Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, and after the debate, first recommends the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolutions: The Chamber of Deputies approves Parliament's Annual Report on the activities of Czech Television in 2014 according to the Parliament's Press 441; Secondly, instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; and finally, thirdly, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2014 at the meeting of the Election Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your patience and attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-007-191.u5	Thank you, too, rapporteur. Since it's already 13 o'clock 7 minutes, I'm interrupting this point and declaring a recess. We'll continue with 14.30 interpelations. At 2:30 p.m., the interpelations continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-10-ps2013-036-07-007-191.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14.30 and we are continuing the program. The next item is oral interpelations, which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government.
