ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 418/ - first reading Please take the seats at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff, Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. We will now continue the interrupted general debate, which was interrupted on Friday, May 22. I am asking who is reporting for the general debate. The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u2	I wanted to give priority to my colleagues, but if no one is reporting, I would like to revive some of the facts that we may have forgotten, namely that even this press No. 418 is presented by Minister Jurečka, so by him, I don't know if the author, maybe he was written in an enterprise, but in any case the petitioner to the government was the Minister of Finance. The press contains two novels. First of all, the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act - which is extremely spicy, because one amendment to the Consumer Tax Act we discussed here yesterday, the third amendment to the Consumer Tax Act has now come into the commentary proceedings, so that is the second amendment to the Consumer Tax Act. The government has decided to amend one excise tax law every month with an amendment to another paragraph, but it is simply an amendment to the excise tax law. And that's the amendment to the Air Protection Act. In August 2014, the Government did not impose an amendment to the Air Protection Act. Once again: In the press 418, which we are discussing now, not only is the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, which certainly belongs to the Minister of Finance, but also to the amendment to the Act on Air Protection, which certainly does not belong to him, but actually affects Agrofert, and therefore the Minister of Finance, together with the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, submitted it to the Government. I'm saying this because we have the rapporteur and the translator, Minister Jurečka, at the table, but we need to know that this press has been working... [[The speaker looks at the left side of the hall, where there is a lot of noise.]] It's interesting how those social democratic MPs can scream. This press has worked out, implemented the whole legislative process, all the objections, and that it was like maku, rejected, submitted to the government and enforced the Minister of Finance in the government. Only then did the government order Minister Jurečka to do the postman and submit it to the Chamber of Deputies, us, for the government. However, I repeat, it is documented from the legislative process that the Minister of Finance, the various ministries reminded the Minister of Finance, presented and enforced the Minister of Finance and Andrej Babiš. The remarkable thing is that in the commentary procedure, where the Ministry of Finance submitted an amendment to the Air Protection Act - I think it does not have a precedent, we are in that situation again that we are not like politicians, we are working, no finance minister has ever submitted an amendment to the Air Protection Act until now. So what is remarkable is that when the Minister of Finance submitted an amendment to the Air Protection Act, which is part of the 418 press, so the amendment to the Air Protection Act, although it goes against the current trends of the European Union, which the Minister of the Environment had to be informed about, the Minister of the Environment, God forbid I would dare say that he had failed professionally, but he simply did not comment very much, I would say that he was silent. Who did not fail professionally, certainly, was Minister Jurečka, who made a very sharp and relevant comment against the amendment to the Act on Air Protection, where he pointed out that this proposal goes against the trends of the European Union, called it essential that he then realized that it was not so important, after all, why would he try, when it belonged to the Minister on the environment, to describe this comment as - not that it would be withdrawn, but that it was no longer essential for him, and he satisfied that the Minister of Finance, who dealt with the amendment to the Act on Air Protection, said that he did not agree with the mention of the Minister of Agriculture. So the way was clear, the material was presented to the government as unbiased, and the government approved it. I believe that only three people at that moment knew what they were really approving, and all three of them had already been arranged, these were the gentlemen of Babiš, Jurečka and Brabec. Without wanting to reach into the other ministers' conscience, I believe they had so much concern that they had no idea what they were approving. They have approved a significant increase in the mandatory collection of biofuels. Here we are again, and by far not for the first time. Please note how on Wednesday the Finance Minister did not hesitate to lie at the press conference that the Ministry of Finance had a neutral position on Mr Rais's proposal to end biofuels. All of us on the Budget Committee, Mr Volný, know that the Ministry of Finance had a positive opinion, we heard it in writing and we heard it from the Ministry of Finance, but the member of the Government does not hesitate to just lie and say that the written basis was different. Similarly, Minister Jurečka, who will first make a fundamental written comment, is to conclude that it is not that important. We can also note here that, in this proposal, government officials often tell the public and us that they are reducing public support. How many times have you heard that from them? Me too many times. We're reducing public support. That's not true, they're increasing it. They increase the combination of both of these amendments, amendments to the Consumer Tax Act and amendments to the Air Protection Act. What they are reducing is that they reduce financial public support in the case of an amendment to the Consumer Tax Act. [[17.10 hours]] The current legal situation exempts biofuels from excise duty. The press that we are discussing now is printing 418 placing marginal, small, but still excise duty of CZK 1.80 per litre on biofuels. 1.80 is more than zero. So if we're just talking about excise duty, then the sentence could be that public support is going down. But there is the second amendment, the amendment to the Air Protection Act prepared by the Minister of Finance - and forgive me, in this case not by the Minister of Finance, but by the head of Agrofert - which significantly changes the current state of law, which allows combining the two public aids that are still running alongside each other and which the government expects to continue to prolong. I repeat, many of us have been convinced that after 2015 there will be only one public support, which will consist of mandatory incorporation. We have two public aids, and the 418 press proposes to continue with both parallel public aids. The one public aid consists of tax relief - either exemption or low excise duty on biofuels. The second public aid consists of the obligation to mix 4,2 per cent of biodiesel into petrol and 6 per cent of biodiesel into diesel. However, the combination of these two public aids can be added up in the current legal state. In other words, the distributor, who has a legal obligation to mix those numbers into fuel and also sells the pure biodiesel, the more he sells the pure biodiesel, the less of 100 percent of the volume sold the pure biodiesel must mix. So, in extreme cases, if it sells a lot of pure biodiesel, it doesn't have to mix at all, because it has already fulfilled that obligation to sell a certain amount of biodiesel per share of fossil fuel. Or if not at all, it only mixes 2 % or 1 % or only mixes for a while. Because everything he sold on that tax-pricing biodiesel doesn't have to mix anymore. The amendment to the Act on Air prepared by the Minister of Finance - once again I would quite like to know the reason why Minister Brabec has not claimed it, but perhaps the gentlemen will explain it - the amendment to the Act on Air Protection prepared by the Minister of Finance reduces it by 70 percent. In other words, you can sell as much pure biodiesel as you want, you can fulfill that obligation at 150 percent and certainly according to the current legal situation you would not have to mix, but according to the amendment that the government is proposing to you now... Gentlemen, if you like, have fun next door! And don't talk right in front of me, please. Or finish talking, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u3	I'm asking everyone to transfer their calls outside the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u4	So no matter how much pure biodiesel you want to sell, you don't have to mix any more, you still have to mix 4.2 percent of Babišův's overpriced shit in each liter, which you don't have to do today. [[Smile in the hall]] In other words, up to 70 percent is theoretically increasing the compulsory sale of biodiesel, which, although verbally denied by government members, they began to deny it at the moment of this argumentation match, but oddly enough in the material that each of you has, you will read that they do not deny it, but that they boast about it. They say, "Oh, how beautiful it will be." Oh, how the sick get well and the birds begin to sing and the roses will bloom when the compulsory production of first generation biofuels is increased, because we will have 14,000 more jobs in the countryside! And the 14,000 jobs more will bring us so much social security and health insurance that it'll actually pay off... They even calculate a positive impact on public budgets. The material we have here assumes a significant increase in the compulsory collection of rape, while government officials on the microphone tell us that public support is declining. Of course, the effect of employment is nonsense if rape is not grown there and something else is grown there. Even if it's not nonsense, like I'm convinced it's nonsense, then what? That double public support can only exist by 2020, so the 14,000 people will go back to the pavement? This makes no other sense than when it is still allowed - not ordered, but allowed - to maximize the profits of Preol and other Agrofert subsidiaries. There's only one point. You won't find another one. So these are two crucial moments that we want to realize. Of course, the members of the government will have some relevant arguments. However, the fact is that the Minister of Finance has submitted an amendment to the government to the Air Protection Act. He submitted this at the same time as the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act. The Chamber of Deputies is presenting an amendment to the Act on Consumer Tax and the amendment to the Act on Air Protection, the Minister of Agriculture, who does not have the competence of legislation in either of the other fields, but the Government has the right to do so. The Minister of Culture, or Minister Bělobrádek, might as well be present, we probably have no more folks. So, really, anyone can submit it. However, it is necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to be aware of this. At the same time, the Chamber of Deputies should be aware that there was a fundamental and competent reminder by the Ministry of Agriculture that this proposal goes completely against the current trends of the European Union, which is aware of the problem of the first generation biofuels and is retreating, while the proposal presented here by Minister Jurečka is accelerating. Even by employing 14,000 new jobs. I didn't make it up, that's what it says, please nicely. That's what the government's counting. She said we'd do so much more to keep 14,000 jobs occupied. Each of you can read it. I would further like every simple consideration to realize that this really increases the mandatory sales. What's gonna happen? The clean biofuels business is gonna go on. The Minister of Finance here yesterday proudly told us how much cheaper it was at Mladá Boleslav by four crowns. [[Minister Babiš shows a picture of gasoline prices.]] The Minister of Finance is proud to show you how much cheaper it will be by the four crowns. In order to make it four crowns cheaper, every citizen of the Czech Republic has to contribute 500 crowns in five years. And since we're all gonna sneak 500 out of our own pockets, Babiš can sell it. Because if we hadn't, it wouldn't be cheaper and Babiš wouldn't sell anything. That's a very simple thought, and I think you've almost all figured it out. Even Mr Volný, he just doesn't want to admit it. [[17.20 hours]] And what happens? Now that we've got that marginal tax of $1.80, it's still going to be very lucrative. It won't be 4 crowns, it'll be 2.20 and 2.20 is enough. Maybe there's a margin to cut it. It's still at an affordable level. So the business of those who are already on it today - ČD Cargo, České dráhy, those whom Minister Babiš always takes hostage when he says: it's for them, it's not for me, they have the advantage of it, I don't. Of course. If they didn't have the advantage, he wouldn't sell it. So he has a major advantage. So those for whom it's cost-effectively attractive, they're going to keep going at it roughly in the same volume. So the volume of clean biofuels, even if burdened with a slight excise duty, doesn't go down, where Babišův's business stays constant. But it's going to increase sharply on the mandatory incorporation, because even today all those who sold pure biofuels had to mix less. Now they will have fun, because according to the amendment of the Air Protection Act, which the Minister Babiš wrote, they will have to cram into every liter of 4.2%, which is a sharp increase in mandatory MERO sales, because you refused to even consider in print 417 that it should be anything other than what the technology is capable of producing Agrofert. So it's a sharp increase in the MERO product by up to 70 percent. In my opinion, it is an organised crime on the air, and I can only propose to reject organised crime on the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am registering his motion for rejection, and here we are: first with priority rights, Minister Jurečka, then President Faltýnek, then duly signed up Mr Pavera and Mr Kučera. Excuse me, Mr. Stanjura with a point of fact. I'm sorry. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u6	I have a procedural proposal that we vote off all other points on this meeting's agenda. And I just want to remind you that if we don't approve, we can't vote on this proposal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u7	That's a procedural proposal. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. A procedural proposal to remove all remaining items of the meeting from the agenda. There's a check-out request. I hereby remove you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[A moment of waiting.]] The number of people present has slowed down, so I am opening the vote to remove all remaining items of the meeting from the agenda. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 205, registered 145 Members and Members, for 109, against 10. The motion was accepted. This dealt with President Stanjura's procedural proposal and now Minister Marian Jurečka's priority right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u9	I'm sorry, Minister. I don't know what's upsetting this House. I'm gonna ask for peace. Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u10	I would only return briefly to the essential, because most arguments, whether in favour or against here, have already been raised twice at the meetings when we discussed this point. I would just like to remind you briefly that biofuels and biofuels from agriculture have been spoken about in the Czech Republic and in the EU for quite a long time. For the first time in 2003, there was a European directive that recommended the use of biofuels as a substitute for fossil fuels. [[This Regulation shall enter ……]] Since 2006, the Czech Republic as a member of the EU has committed itself to having 10 per cent of energy in transport from renewable sources in 2020 and later we have committed ourselves to reducing greenhouse gases by 6 per cent between 2010 and 2020. To do this, we could voluntarily choose many ways to do so. There are EU countries that go the way of biofuels, countries that go the way of electromobility, supporting other sources, but the Czech Republic did not invest very much in these different alternative sources either financially or in the field of science, research, applied research so that it could be demonstrated in practice. The arguments that were raised here, I think we should have said at the end of that period sometime before 2010, what kind of mix of renewable resources we want to choose, and I suppose we still have enough room for that in future years and certainly no one is resisting it. After all, even within the framework of the Parliament's 418 press, we can debate richly at second reading what renewable resources we can somehow support and what support we can open there. Each of the Members has the full right to submit an amendment to this area. However, we are now in a situation where we do not have such capacity resources in the second and third generation biofuels sector, which we could put here from year to year in such huge quantities when we are talking about hundreds of thousands of tons of biofuels. I think it really is a little bit strange for me, when there is a downward trend in how and who supplies biofuels to the Czech market. I kind of miss the fact that these things didn't sound here five or six years ago, because maybe we wouldn't even be having this discussion today, and that was basically okay with the leaders of the government coalition back then. I would like to say here that this amendment does not address the amount of mixed biofuels at all. What we're dealing with here is that for the first time in history, we want to put excise duty on high-percent biofuels. We're finished with the notification process today. The exact amount in the second reading under the amendment will be adjusted there, because we knew that when we handed the material to the government, we were running out of time, and we would be able to make it perfectly precise. There's one key thing I'd like to point out. When we talk about this nonsense and how much it will cost taxpayers, I will give one particular example. There is currently consumption of net FAME in the Czech Republic, i.e. 100% biofuels, i.e. oil substitutes, approximately 118 thousand. tonnes per year. When the conversion of this high-percent biofuels, that's 147 million. liters of fuel. To be correct and take into account, say, some higher consumption of biofuels during operation, I have done 10% correction and I get the figure that in the Czech Republic approximately 132 750 000 litres of diesel is replaced by biofuels. May I have your attention, my dear Members, to make you aware of why I am saying this here. From one barrel of oil, the refinery produces about 38 litres of diesel, and thus, high-percent biofuels mean that we do not have to deliver 3 493 421 barrels of oil. We could round it up and say 3.4 miles. barrels of oil. But it's not just a delivery, it's not even a payment. And we ask ourselves, who are we paying to import oil into the Czech Republic? In the vast majority, we send this money to Russia. [[17.30 hours]] If I take the koruna's course to the dollar yesterday and yesterday's cost of North Sea oil Brent, our economy doesn't have to pay about CZK 5.5 billion for oil to Russia every year. Thus, this money will remain in the Czech economy and, above all, with Czech farmers. Yes, there are arguments that we want to give around CZK 9 billion from the state budget from public funds in the context of tax reductions. I would remind you that Minister Kalousek, when he was Minister of Finance, then he did not identify national support for five years in the amount of 11 billion. How much was really not taken? How much was this support actually worth over the last five years? It was less than 6 billion. Now we're talking about the amount of the notified ceiling of 9 billion. We expect this aid to be less than 5 billion, because it also increases the tax burden here. That means, if I count it down to five years, every year, thanks to the state's, say, aid worth one billion for fuel distributors, I will not pay a CZK 5.5 billion in oil to Russia in particular. There is a clearly proven effect for the Czech economy, because the money remains here in the Czech Republic. That's what I'd like us all to realize, and we can take that into account here, too. The discussion is basically that we have a second reading before us if we get to it. I recommend that we leave all the good proposals that we have here from 200 Members and Members to come up with, and comments on this press as it should look, to second reading, and that we can reload the amendments and, of course, then decide on them by voting. However, in all the arguments that were made here three weeks ago and about a month and a half ago, I took the liberty today to add one quite substantial economic argument to where the funds went afterwards. And if somebody is yelling and saying: let's not give this support here, let's not encourage high-percent biofuels, which are also made from about 45 percent sugar beet and from worse and less quality grain, so I'm starting to ask, isn't there a lobby in it? Isn't there a kerosene lobby in there, too? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u11	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. We will continue the debate. I'll read the logged in, so you know I've got you on record. Now the two factual remarks made by Mr Kalousek, Mr Korte, then with priority rights, President Faltýnek, Vice-President Gazdík and Minister Babiš. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u12	Through the President, Minister, forgive me, but when you have decided to defend this material, you must defend what is written there and not what you have invented. Otherwise, it's unserious. The material doesn't say that the program is notified up to 9 billion. The material says that the expected impact on public budgets will be 9 billion, which is an estimate of how much it will cost us, not until we have notified it. You said that this material doesn't solve the volume of sales at all, and in the material you presented to us in the Annex to the RIA, there's an exhilarating passage on how it will increase the sales, how it will increase the cultivation of rape in the countryside and how we will make the new 14,000 jobs there. I don't believe it, but if you don't believe it, then what are you defending here? It's written in the material. So please, either say, "I'm starting to think something different and I'm downloading the material where there's nonsense" or the material, but don't insult us by saying something other than what's in the material, because that's what you just did. On the other hand, I leave it to you that the amazing savings of unimported fossil fuels are driven through those fields when the rape is cultivated. So she'll be nothing from scratch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kalousek, for keeping time. Now, Mr Daniel Korte too, with a point of fact. Then priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I'm afraid we've found ourselves once again in a vicious circle in which we've been before. I have heard here that, on the basis of our duty to the European Commission, we have to mix, but I have not heard why we must give tax advantages. That's what we were talking about here about a month ago. I would like to finally receive this answer from the plaintiff. I'm not asking you we have to. I'm asking why we have to take advantage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u15	Thank you. Other factual points. First Herbert Pavera, then Jan Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would have responded briefly to some of the things that were said here today and last time, and there were some things that could no longer be answered. I'm sure rape won't stop growing from day to day, from year to year, no one wants to. But I would like to point out or draw attention to some of the things Minister Jurečka spoke with here when he accused me last time of getting my materials prepared or copied from Wikipedia, etc. Yes, I have counsellors, I have people I consult. They are people of experts, farmers who sell fertilizers, etc., and I consulted with them. I'm not ashamed they gave me the material. I stand by the material, and I will always stand by it. So that's all I wanted to add, unlike you, that you weren't behind the material. Then you said you were a plant doctor, that you graduated from high school and college, so Roundup can't be used for rape spray. I'm telling you, it's used. If you weren't paying attention at school or telling the truth that it's used in agriculture, I'm telling you to know that. He is used in diluted form to so-called. Desiccation. You probably know what rape desiccating is - premature ripening or accelerated ripening, etc. So just enough to explain that I wasn't telling the truth here, but that I was telling the truth, and for the record. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jan Volný's point of fact is now still in effect. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u18	Thank you. Colleagues, my colleague, Mr President, I cannot not respond to the pregnant evidence of a special-purpose demonstration and the statement made by Mr Kalousek. In his first performance, he says: "Unless rape is grown there, there will be something else, there will be something growing there. " [[When he calls, he taps his hands on the pitch.]] Maybe he's right. And in the second, he says, "But they're going through the oil in that field. [[He's raising his voice very much.]] It's gonna be nothing from scratch anyway." So what does he want? He's gonna grow something there anyway, so we're gonna go through the oil anyway, but we're not gonna make any oil. So it's just a purposeful statement as it suits him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u19	Yes, he was a fellow Volný. Now Mr Michal Kučera's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u20	Only briefly to Mr Volný through Mr President. Mr Freeman, I hope that there will be something more beneficial for our landscape and the environment than rape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u21	Thank you. Now, then, Prime Minister Faltýnek's priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to start by asking you, Mr Vice-President, Mr Kalousek's fellow rapporteur, that, after watching closely in the Events yesterday, comments on the debate, among other things, about beet, when Chairman TOP 09 Mr Schwarzenberg said that he was a great farmer and that he therefore did not like rape and that rape therefore watered the landscape and aggravated the soil, and he said this several times on public television, so I would like to send a brief excerpt from the textbook of the University of Agriculture, the agronomic field, from the first year through President Kalousek. It's called the chapter of the rotational process. Perhaps it would be a good idea to study this within some other parliamentary clubs, so that we don't keep telling each other the truth. I have made a commitment today - I will give it right away, my colleague - that I will not use the word lies and replace it with the word untruth, because I consider it polite. [[to the rapporteur, Mr Kalousek]] In this material from the textbook for the first year of the University of Agriculture, agronomics, there is talk of what is improving and worsening crops, and it can be read here as part of the compilation of the Norfolk rotational process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u23	Thank you, Mr. Faltýnek...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u24	Thank you. No, that's not all. [[- So please continue.]] I'm sorry. Thank you. My colleague, the rapporteur, in his opening words, from my point of view, turned pears into apples and turned it into a rather inconspicuous potato. The subject we're debating here is complicated. To be able to have a momentary conversation, I would ask that we go back to the beginning of this debate. It hasn't been that long. He, through Mr President, has not been telling the truth since the beginning. He is not telling the truth when he claims that after 2015, no one was counting on further support for biofuels. Among other things, the National Action Plan of the Czech Republic for Energy from Renewable Sources, which 31. 10. 2012 was approved by the Nečasův government. It's this material, ex-government members who are sitting in opposition benches today, I'm sure they know it. [[shows]] This National Action Plan specifically states on page 101 - I quote: As part of the gradual increase in biofuels as alternative fuels from renewable energy sources in transport, it must be based on the real fact that the 10% target in 2020 cannot be achieved through the low-percent incorporation of biofuels into diesel and diesel fuels. Directive 2009/30 of the European Parliament and European standards for the quality of petrol and diesel EM228 and EM590. And therefore it is appropriate in the near future (a) to amend the existing conditions for persons legally obliged to apply biofuels as compensation for fossil motor petrol and diesel in transport so that these business entities are competitive in this area with those of other Member States of the European Union which are engaged in the Central European Area; for further - to process the gradual application of biofuels as alternative motor fuels in the Czech Republic, this is a real concept of the application of alternative motor fuels from renewable energy sources in transport up to 2020, based on valid legislation both European and national, the conditions of the Czech Republic, expert estimates of the development of consumption of diesel and diesel fuels for transport purposes development and replacement of operated domestic car parks, the wider application of high-percent biofuels, mixtures and clean biofuels, also the use of second, respectively. third generation and using biomass as raw material for refining oil into fuel after 2015; (b) under the conditions in the Czech Republic, to re-evaluate the existing and other uses of biofuels for propulsion, in particular the wider use of both clean biofuels and high-percent biofuels, especially in the agricultural sector - where biofuels are produced and in other Member States of the European Union they are also used, for example in Germany, France, Austria and Sweden, in the field of construction, mining or transport undertakings providing local urban transport. Following that First, ensure the completion of the pilot project with emulsion diesel fuel, which is used as ecological fuel by transport undertakings in Prague and Ostrava on the basis of the said pilot project, and instead of that fuel, introduce either the use of clean biofuels - FAME/MEŘO - or fuel E95; to allow the use of clean biofuels or high-percent biofuels for the propulsion of motor vehicles operated by Czech Railways, according to the CSO it is roughly 120 000 tonnes of diesel per year, and also in the field of construction and mining, according to data from the CSU it is about 230 000 tonnes per year; establish conditions in the administration to introduce the use of passenger vehicles on fuel E85 in the framework of the renewal of the fleet for state administration. So from this material, where I quoted only a tiny part, it is clear that from the beginning, my colleague Kalousek has not been telling us the truth. His government, virtually. At that time, Mirek Topolánek, the government, pushed for a multiannual plan to support biofuels in 2008. It was Mr Kalousek himself, who put this plan into the last drop of blood and into the last man in the House. And again, it was his government that was counting on supporting high-percent biofuels by 2020. So what happened? Mr Kalousek voted at least four times in favour of the promotion of biofuels, including the incorporation of biofuels by 2020, and today he turned 180 degrees. I'm asking why. But Minister Jurečka suggested a possible answer here, I'll leave the question hanging in the air. I would also, if I may, briefly recapitulate the facts in this opening speech, because last time we discussed here, how Europe is actually taking a stand on this, how the European Parliament feels about the problem of biofuels, and how we should therefore fight in this European Parliament, so that the European Parliament will reconsider its view on the use of biofuels. Again, let's just stick to verifiable facts. The vote of Members of the European Parliament, which took place on 28. 4, I remember that well, because that's the day I was born, so 28. This year's 4th vote by Members of the European Parliament gave quite a clear answer to the question of how a vast majority of the representatives of all the Member States of the European Union view the issue of biofuels throughout their wide range. Of the 691 Members present, a total of 531 voted in favour of the future of biofuels, indicating relatively fundamental not only the political but also the moral support of this sector in the European Union by at least 2020. Perhaps after 2020, the situation will be different, but this is the current situation voted by 2020 by a massive majority of all Member States. What does this voted proposal mean in particular? This means that the amount of the dictatorial share of energy from renewable energy sources in transport by 2020 in each Member State will be 10 per cent. Maximum share of classic biofuels so-called the first generation of the 10% limit is set at 7 per cent. The proportion of advanced biofuels that we have also discussed in the past, the second and the next generation, is set only as an indicative target of 0,5 percent of the 10% limit. The calculation of indirect land use change factors will be re-considered in 2020 and the current approved text of the Directives does not yet count on it. What remains unsolved is the open question of how Member States will cope with the difference between the indicative 0,5 per cent of second- and third-generation biofuels and those 7 per cent of first-generation biofuels. [[17.50 hours]] I have two questions in this regard. Firstly, if we are criticising today that Europe is going in the wrong direction, that we will certainly be able to fight for some better conditions as a rightful and strong member of the European Union as regards the further development and future of biofuels in the European Union, I am asking what we have fought for the past governments there and what we have fought for when the European Parliament, after the long struggle that some of the representatives of the previous governments have fought there, we have fought for the resolution that was adopted by a massive majority. That's the question in the past. And the question of the present. Perhaps it would be a good idea if we had this view that first-generation biofuels are bad, that rape, cereals, diabetes, maize from which the first-generation biofuels are produced, not only rape, but also these other arable crops, so maybe it would be good to tell our representatives in the European Parliament that they should vote differently, that they should stand up within the European Parliament and vote on this problem and say: no, we simply disagree, friends. Well, that may not have happened, my friends, because we know how our MEPs voted on these two fundamental standards in the European Parliament. [[From the right side of the hall echoes: How who.]] Like who, yes. I'll tell you who voted. My colleagues Niedermayer, Polčák, Štětina, Zahradil and Tošenovský voted in favour. My colleague Pospíšil wasn't at the vote. Members from the KSČM and Mr Mach were opposed. MEPs for YES were in favour of the proposal. So much for recapitulating the facts. I got a nice e-mail today, my friends. I asked the writer if I could disclose his name. He confirmed that he did. It's some Mr. Vrbík from Zlin. I don't know him personally, but I'm gonna edit the words where "lie" is for "untrue," and I'm gonna read the e-mail with permission. He's not very long: "But that Mr. Kalousek himself is perjuring himself out of the truth. The promotion of sales is aid for production. Thus, if the Ministry of Finance wants to spend CZK 9 billion on sales support, it supports production, because without this support the producer would not sell. That's what the rapporteur said. This statement is admirably true. The author himself notes that the Ministry spends the billions on sales support, that without the aid producers would not sell. This makes it clear and understandable that billions are used to reduce the price of biodiesel. Everyone, even a slightly retarded person, will understand that if the seller lowers the price, he doesn't have the discount money anymore. They're spent. In this way, the rapporteur himself proves that his claim of 5 billion to Babiš, namely that Babiš takes that amount for his company, is untrue as a tower. He himself notes that Babiš's support for the state lowers the price of biodiesel, otherwise he would not have sold it, but at the same time screams dramatically until he is tired of it, that Babiš stole from the state's 5 billion. It could be said that it is ridiculous if, because of Kalouskův's logic, so much paper had not been described, if the lie had not been repeated every day for a week by all the media, opposition MPs, etc. etc. etc.' I'm not gonna read the whole thing. It is the opinion of a citizen whom I do not know, who gives partly for real to a fellow rapporteur, that leaving that excise duty is indeed a subsidy to the final price for the final consumer. I still have some material here. I've been working on some material called the Ten-Terror nonsense during the review of biofuels legislation. I only quote a few of these because these are the things that were said specifically on the Event, comments 20. 5. when my colleague and I were together on television from 22.10 to 22.30. Accurate quote: "I approved and supported high-percent biofuels because incorporation was not mandatory in 2012 and it was the only option to support the development of biofuels." The fact is that compulsory incorporation began even before the promotion of high-percent biofuels. In the Czech Republic, 1. 9. 2007 mandatory incorporation into diesel and from 1 January 2008 mandatory incorporation into petrol. Next sentence: "Here are two types of support. Tax relief of net biofuels and compulsory incorporation. Before deciding on compulsory incorporation in 2012, the European Union may have been the only possible aid for tax net biofuels.' The fact is that the European Commission's decision on compulsory incorporation regulates the directive adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in 2003, not until 2012. It's the 8th Directive. 5. 2003 under the designation 2003/30/EC on promoting the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels for transport. The subsequent legislative process in the field of biofuels is regulated by subsequent amendments or directives, including Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23. 4. 2009 on promoting the use of energy from renewable sources and amending and subsequently repealing Directives 2001/77, 2003/30, 2009/30 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23. 4. 2009 etc. etc. I've got ten of these things in particular. It's for another debate. I would then ask that we eventually get to this, to this expert debate, on the farm committee, where this law could potentially also be imposed, and I would call on this way through the President if we manage to bring this law to the committee, the rapporteur President, to this debate in the agricultural committee. Thank you so much for your attention. That's all at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u25	I thank Mr Faltýnek. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Gazdík. Then there will be two factual points, and then Minister Brabec, colleague Stanjura, President Kalousek, will continue with the right of priority. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u26	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues. I will try to be very factual and ask both the Minister and possibly colleague Faltýnek through you for one thing. Mr Faltýnek here quoted from the national action plan, in which support for second and third generation biofuels was also mentioned by 2020. So I do not understand why, if we as legislators are to make laws in general, why do you insist that it must be written in one paragraph "only the methyl ester of rape oil', why in the previous vote to print 418 as legislators do not give a much more general formulation, which includes the methyl esters of rape oil, and these are the methyl esters of higher fatty acids. Why we did not support the proposal made by Mr Rais here in a clear way. And I would like to know if you are ready, colleagues from the coalition, or, Minister, to support such a proposal, which will probably be tabled at second reading, at third reading. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u27	Thank you, Vice-President Gazdík. I'll ask my colleagues for a little more patience. For personal reasons, Stanislav Huml apologizes until the end of the day, as well as from 17.50 Mr Koskuba, from 19:00 in the possible meeting of colleague Štětina, from 18:00 Mr Běhounek and between 14:00 and 23.59 Mr Radim Fiala. Now, then, Mr Martin Novotný, who is on the point of fact. After that, Mr Michal Kučera's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u28	Colleagues and colleagues, there are topics that have a sophisticated structure, such as tax reliefs, demand stimulus, mandatory fixed amount of incorporation, etc., but the subject also has a general human plane. A colleague of Faltýnek mentioned a letter sent to him by an individual citizen of the Czech Republic. Then I will tell you what letters I have received from the citizens of the Czech Republic in recent days and weeks. I get a number of letters from allergic people who are sick and tired of having to endure the consequences of these endless rape lanes. I received a letter recently asking the citizens if they understood the KDU-ČSL election billboard correctly, which was all yellow and there was "we'll fix the country" but there was sunflower. If there's no mistake about the billboard, if there wasn't supposed to be another crop, that is. Rape seed. I have been driving around the Czech Republic quite intensively for some work reasons for the past few weeks myself, and the yellow is becoming a national discussion topic. There is no greater dream of opposition policy than for citizens to start talking about the consequences of government policy in such a simple and understandable way. I also noticed a joke about whether the father of Bohemia, when he climbed Mount Říp, said it was the land promised, the game and the birds full of rape flowing, or whether it was the honey that always mentions there. It's becoming a nationwide theme. So I would like to say that in voting on these laws, maybe next time we should consider sending them to the Health Committee to discuss them, and that I myself will be this view, which is a little different -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u29	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u30	I have no choice but to quit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Michal Kučera also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u32	Thank you for the floor. I must respond a little to the words of President Faltýnek, who so emotionally and sentimentally referred to the decision of Nečasův' government. I just want to point out that in other cases, it was not so touching and sentimental when, without any scruples and other connections, this government abolished the second pension pillar and abolished hospital fees, etc., without any measures. That's where the Nečasův government's decision wasn't so attached to it as it was in this case. And I would like to say that this government had a unique opportunity, a unique opportunity to respond to the new information that came in the meantime, since this government was here, the government has been bureaucratic, and this is about the harmfulness of biofuels. Today and daily, we learn how harmful biofuels are from scientific workplaces, how harmful they are, how environmentalists find out about harmful biofuels, and the situation has changed dramatically. It's just different than it was in 2008-2009. These new findings were to be based on this government, and these new findings were to be reflected in this amendment. She did not do this and, on the contrary, sentimentally refers to Minister and Prime Minister Nečas. Unfortunately, in other cases, it doesn't do that. So once again, I call on this government to withdraw this law, to rework it and to reflect really new and modern knowledge of biofuels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u33	I thank Mr Kučer. Now one more factual comment by Martin Novotný. And please do not abuse factual remarks, or I will have to judge, as managing director, whether it is the use of factual comment or abuse. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u34	I just wanted to finish my previous one. Colleagues and colleagues, I would also like to mention that this legislation also has a positive impact on the turnover of car dishwasher owners. I don't know if you've noticed what these cars look like. I myself personally, before I get home, after I pass through, because I live on a thirsty Hané, so mostly the car is yellow, and in that sense I would also like to convey to you the opinion of a whole number of citizens that they are fed up with this yellow crap.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u35	That was Mr Novotný's factual point. Now, Mr Daniel Korte, with a point of fact. Then he gets into Minister Brabec, I believe. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Because I didn't get the answer, I want to respond to President Faltýnek. Yes, first of all, it is the fact that the Czech Republic has undertaken to mix biolic acid into the European Union in appropriate proportion. That's right. Secondly, the European Union ends with tax support for biofuels of the first generation as at 30. 6. 2015. That's right. Thirdly, Agrofert was through his political division, i.e. Members of the YES movement, seek to extend this tax support for another five years by 2020. That's a fact. And I wonder why tax advantages to first-generation biofuels need to continue to be given tax advantages. So again, I'm not asking why it needs to be mixed up. I'm asking why it has to be a tax advantage. And I would finally like to hear the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u37	There is yet another factual comment by Mr Kořenko. I recall that I will indeed apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the misuse of factual remarks. And if you're out of the question of fact, that is. aside from responding to the previous speaker, I will have to take your word for it and use this instrument, which is not normally used in this House, because it will then not get to those who have priority rights, who report properly to the debate. Please, Mr. Kořenek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u38	Thank you, I'll be very quick, but my colleague Novotný has made me a little chaos. I don't have oil rape anywhere near my place, and I had a yellow car. I thought it was conifers, so now I don't know. I'm in a bit of a mess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u39	It was conifers. Mr Ondřej Benešík is now also making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard something here about the yellow crap that citizens have had enough of. But in that case, it's yellow crap that's here because of the previous governments, not because of this government. And to do what you said, Mr Vice-President, and to speak to the one who spoke before me, I'll just add: that's a fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u41	Mr Faltýnek's point of order now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u42	I'll be very brief. I'm worried that this yellow crap, or, as they say, this government can't even last one or the previous one, because if you look at the statistical data, and that's true, that's true, so the statistics in the last 20 years say that this ugly, disgusting rape is still growing roughly the same way in the Czech Republic. [[Laughing in the hall]] Regardless of biofuels - non-fuels, it is simply a crop that belongs to the rotational process, it is an improving crop. The problem is for people who don't understand it very much, that in the past rape was grown more in sub-mountain areas. And she came down to the lowlands, unfortunately, and we see today because most people ride in the lowlands, so that's why it's optically misleading, but the area of rape in the Czech Republic in relation to the rotational area is still the same, somewhere around 350 to 380 thousand hectares. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u43	Now, Mr Michal Kučera's factual comment. I thank my colleague Faltýnek for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u44	Thank you for the floor. In my factual point, I would like to respond to Mr Benešík's words. Mr Benešík, through Mr President, how long will you make naively excuses for previous governments? It's been almost two years since the election, this government's been here for a year and a half. And you had a unique chance, a unique chance to do something about it. And you here, as a child, refer to past governments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u45	Thank you. And now, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u46	Mr Benešík is looking for a mistake in past governments, so I must remind him of the link between the previous governments and the current government. The liaison is the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. Yesterday, in my speech, I said here all the circumstances that tied up in approving the 2010 amendment to the Air Act. The biggest lobbyist in the day before the election was Andrej Babiš. He bragged himself in his speeches about how he called on individual Members and the pressure they put on the Chamber of Deputies. He was helped by the current Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who arranged for the House to meet on the very day before the vote and this law was passed. So if you want to blame someone, it's this clutch you should be thinking about. And on the question that was raised earlier, why is Andrej Babiš presenting an amendment to the Air Act? That's why. Because he was already setting it up in 2010, so from the logic of the matter he is now setting it up as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u47	So now the factual remark of Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, then the factual comment of Pavel Kováčik and others. Even the Minister of Agriculture has changed his application to a factual one. Please, Minister Brabec is the first with priority rights. Please, Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u48	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to answer here the question that has fallen. This is because we are not ready for a situation where many cities have invested in urban public transport precisely the use of rape fuel. This would mean a difference in the price of up to 14 crowns for them without support, which could be lethal to them. Second thing. Without support, this would probably be a big problem for producers, but also sugar beet processors. Perhaps this would also lead to the end of this traditional field in the Czech Republic and, of course, it would also affect the price of petrol stations or diesel stations. And then I'd just like to comment on some of the very funny comments we've been given. I would like to make a statement that our Members and our representatives have received several good gifts. Among them were mirrors, beads, knives, and stone axes, which were replaced with those made of metal. Mr. Sekyra gave us about two percent of our budget in that time. Maybe we could find sponsors at TOP 09 who gave a lot more money, I think there were 11 million gifts and so on. So, yes, it was worth it, the ladies got mirrors and beads, and we got metal knives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u49	I thank the Vice-President of the Government, Bělobrádek. Mr Kováčik now, then Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u50	Good afternoon, thank you very much. In response to the debate that is still under way, I would like the debate and the whole approach not to damage the very noble rape crop, precisely the common farmer, who does not grow it out of love for the same beet, but because of the nature of the thing he does for profit. And when someone here recommended that instead of rape feed wheat, it should be remembered that the fodder wheat must also be eaten by someone, but the cattle just aren't here. And let's ask why he's not here. The one who would eat the wheat, my colleague. Dramatic declines in livestock status have already been heard here today, perhaps even worse. But I would just like to say that the farmer who does business for profit is, of course, forced to have no one to eat the wheat, to grow the rape for which he gets CZK 8,000 for a ton, while he feeds the wheat with poverty, and if power, maybe two and a half thousand crowns. That's the profit. And then, I feel like the less someone understands, the more they comment. I want to ask that we, and now I do not support biofuels, on the contrary, or anything else, to express ourselves with real knowledge. Only for Mr Novotný through the President. Rape is an entomophilic plant, which means a plant that pollinates insects. So it is not annemophilic, or it is not a plant that the wind will pollinate. Thus, rape pollen does not travel through the air and wind. And the yellow one that stains your car is the pollen of those anemophilic plants, which means conifers first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u51	I thank Mr Kováčik and I ask that he do not apply factual positions either, because this was a factual point. With a factual remark now the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, after him Josef Hájek, after him Ondřej Benešík, then Milan Urban, then Karel Schwarzenberg. Yes? Just so you know how hard it is today. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I really do. Interestingly: In the 1999/2000 marketing year, when no support for biofuels was ever discussed in the Czech Republic, the area of rape was 350 353 hectares. In 2014/2015 it was 389 298. So the area essentially plus minus the same. There are differences that move between, say, 30 to 40,000 hectares depending on what autumn it is, how it can sow, how much it winters. And then on to the discussion and the question very factual, for which I thank Petr Gazdík. It doesn't say anything about the words of the first, second, or third generation biofuels when you look at the law. The text of the law knows the word biofuels. And what corresponds in this logic to what can be used to meet the Czech state standard for fuel in the Czech Republic. We are open, and if there was a specific question about the definitions that concern the individual nomenclature codes that are mentioned there, then we can discuss it at second reading. I'd be happy to invite colleagues from my ministry. But I think there should be more colleagues from the Department of the Environment here to say that maybe we can add some of these codes or change them. This is a debate that is calmly open here and we can lead it on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and the Committee on Agriculture. So I say yes to Petr Gazdík, there is no problem in conducting this debate and adopting an amendment on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u53	Thank you, Minister Jurečka. Mr Josef Hájek, now with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u54	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like a little follow up on the words of my fellow Member Novotný. In this context, I would contact our scientists working in the field of plant genetics to try to breed Brassica napus in blue. I think that the color of blue might be better suited to some opposition party representatives than the color of yellow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u55	I thank Mr Josef Hájek. Now with the factual remark of Mr Ondřej Benešík, then only Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u56	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think I've been fully understood, but I'm taking it upon myself, I'm sure I've made a bad statement. This was not a criticism of previous governments. I was just pointing out that some people seem to have too much rape and that it's gross and that people have had enough. That's quite possible. I'm not saying that's not true. Well, the rape ropes we have now, if we take the premise that they're here because they're being supported, that otherwise they wouldn't be here or less, so they're here because the previous governments supported them. I think the previous government supported the cultivation. That's all. [[18.20 hours]] And it's not true that I'm just gonna say that it's all because of the previous government. I was rather admiring the fact that a colleague here has brought such self-criticism. If he doesn't like it, basically, I don't know if he was here then or wasn't, but his teammates did. But that's not a criticism, I didn't want to bring up a debate on this subject, I just wanted to set it straight. And that's basically it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u57	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Milan Urban now, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u58	Thank you for the floor. I'm definitely not going to discuss whether blue is good or not. I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Agriculture Minister. And that's because I'm not an expert. He said there's already been a notification, if I understood correctly. So I would like to ask if there has been a formal notification so that biofuels can be used at those levels as proposed after 2015. If formal notification were to take place, I will not propose what I have to say - that the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club agreed at its meeting that it would propose a suspension of this law until formal notification takes place. So I am making a conditional proposal: if formal notification has not been made in the European Union - it has taken place, the Minister says. [[of the petitioners' bench]] Then the proposal doesn't make sense. I wanted to ask if there was official notification, because no one else said that except in his opening speech today, Mr. Minister, or I did not see it as an emphasis, Mr. Agriculture Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u59	Thank you. Now, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u60	For almost 70 years I have been living and traveling in mountain landscapes. And now I have a confession to make. Glad I learned my lesson today. But even on Slovak or Austrian or Swiss salachi, I never noticed rape ropes. Not in Sumava meadows or in Klínovec or under Sněžkou. Well, I don't know where they were hiding when they just descended to the lowlands. I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u61	Thank you for the factual remark and the respect of time. Mr Kučera's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u62	Thank you for the floor. I would only briefly respond to the words of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Jurečka, who said that the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment should be speaking here, in particular, and I would point out that although here all the time, and not only today, but the many days we are discussing this, the Minister of the Environment has not yet spoken to this very serious situation. And I repeat, when we've been talking here for several meetings, several days, many and many hours. Many and many hours and here the Minister of the Environment was supposed to be here and he was supposed to defend Czech landscape, Czech nature and protection. The Minister of the Environment has not yet said a word on this subject here in the House. Not a word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u63	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Minister Brabco, who has been logged in for at least an hour, all the time I've been in charge of the meeting, and has not yet been able to speak on account of factual remarks and two priority rights. It's not my fault. So, ladies and gentlemen, if Prime Minister Bělobrádek, colleague Stanjura, colleague Korte, colleague Němcová signs off, I will give the floor with priority rights to Minister Brabco immediately. I cannot do so yet, and with a factual remark, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek will be given the floor. Please, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u64	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, yellow is our color! I think a lot of our members are glad that in some parts of our republic, the Czech Republic is finally yellow again. I also want to point out that not everything that looks like rape is rape. I don't know which one of you from the car or the plane can tell what flowering mustard looks like or what rape looks like. Anyway, I think it's a better approach that we're glad it's yellow than when some racists, when they attack the snow, are glad that the Čechy are white.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u65	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura now also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u66	I'm in line for the Minister of the Environment with priority rights, but that's okay. I'd like to calm my colleagues down. I'm sure he'll get to the word in the first reading. If not today, next or next meeting. But a factual point. I want to respond to Mr. Benešík's performance. I've been here since 2010, and I've never once voted on biofuels, tax advantages. Not once. Although it was said here yesterday: The Nečasův government. It was the day before the election, and to be fair, at the beginning of the House we had seven clubs and only two did not sit people who voted for tax advantages. In ours and in the club YES. In all other clubs since Dawn through TOP 09, ČSSD, KSČM sat people who voted. WHO, OF COURSE, FOR. My colleague Benešík says the previous government. But that wasn't the previous government! When it was voted in the House, it was the government of Jan Fischer, and your MPs as one man were in favour. Not ours. Less than 25 per cent of the ODS Members voted in favour of this, and I am sorry. But even without our votes, the law would have passed the day before the election. So criticize your party colleagues for raising your hand, and don't keep pointing at us! This has not been discussed once in the last parliamentary term! But in the past, when the government party was KDU along with us. You seem to be forgetting it! Were you with us in the government or weren't you? Well, they were! They were. So tell our government it's in place, not their last one. Be proud that your government was the one who introduced this. All I'm saying is that your MPs were all in favour of, of our 18, which was less than 25 percent of the MP's club. And those of my Members who are in the Chamber of Deputies today... here, they voted against. [[Attention on time.]] They voted against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u67	Now, Mr Daniel Korte. Before I give him my word, I will read the apologies received from the hearing, Mrs Golasowská, Mr Herbert Pavera, Mr Jan Sedláček and Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologize for today's meeting. Now, Mr Daniel Korte, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u68	Thank you for the floor. Our old clock beats for four hours. I regret to say that I still haven't heard the answer from the Minister of Agriculture about why the tax advantages of first-generation biofuels are needed. On the other hand, I heard from Mr. First... so second, just from Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Bělobrádek that they would make city buses more expensive. Please, I don't know why. We have heard many times here from the owner of Agrofert Mr. Andrej Babiš that he wants to return the company he put in it. I don't know if those first-generation biofuels are such good, so why shouldn't he make them for free? To return to society what he had received from her! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u69	Now Minister Marian Jurečka. Also with a factual remark. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u70	Thank you. Well, I, if I may, must set the record straight here, and that was Mr Urban's question, which concerned the end of the notification process. So I have to say, the situation is that at DG Competition, we're in a situation where we're done on the workline. Today it is in the inter-ministerial procedure between individual Commissioners and 30. 6. is the final date for receiving final notification to the Czech Republic. That's the situation now. I'm just going to think about what's been said here briefly. It's like when the rape here now, as I hear it, like the crop we're worried about how yellow it is, like the pollen and all that. Why didn't this debate happen here in 1990 to 2000 when the area was the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u71	Thank you. Now Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek with a factual remark, then Mr Milan Urban, then colleague Benešík, František Laudát, Miroslav Kalousek, Zbyněk Stanjura. Real notes in that order. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I mean, through yours, that colleague Korte here in the cold north doesn't have to address me with full titles, that I would certainly survive without it. However, I want to add that today is our color green, you may have noticed this, and it is due to the fact that today is World Day of multiple sclerosis, so it is not some reminder that it was a merging convention with the Green Party, but it is a World Day of multiple sclerosis. As far as transport companies are concerned, they have invested relatively large amounts in their fleet to drive on clean biofuels, so that they do not lose diesel because it is worse to be used in private vehicles. So there are relatively strong investments. At the same time, I claim that we will do our utmost to support research and development in the second and third generations. I just can't promise that Agrofert won't invest in these new technologies. I really can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u73	Thank you. Now, Mr Milan Urban, on a point of fact. Mr. Benešík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u74	I would like to thank Minister Jurečka for specifying whether or not there has been formal notification in the European Union. I have no reason not to believe that it will take place by 30. 6., however, it has not yet taken place, and for this reason I am making a motion to interrupt until it is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u75	Thank you, it's okay, I can't do anything but summon you up with a gong, unsubscribe all of you, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The application for interruption shall be submitted by a date or other data which shall be linked to the identification of the interruption period. In that case, if this is given by the date of notification, the term is clear and we can put it to a vote. The number of entries has almost stabilized. We will decide on the proposal for interruption until the notification is completed. Voting number 206, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 206, of the 130 Members present for 33, against 50, has not been adopted. We will continue with the factual remarks. Now, then, Mr Benešík, then the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, who did not endure the tension of the situation and entered into factual remarks. Yes, my colleague Kalousek also has a factual point. I apologize to Mr Kalousek. Mr Benešík, before Minister Brabc, Mr Kalousek, with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u76	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope for the last time today. I will not dispute that KDU-ČSL supported the advantage of rape at the time. Personally, I think that maybe it was the only right decision, because it was probably the only way to fulfill our commitment to the European Union that we had co-created back then. In fact, there was no other way to achieve what we had ourselves or what the government had committed ourselves to. So I'm definitely not gonna argue with that. At the time, it was probably a decision that had no alternative. I think that there is only one Member from the current KDU-ČSL club who did it at the time, and I think that he really assessed it as being no alternative. I am afraid, and that is the point of the debate, that there is no other alternative at the moment. Unfortunately, what has changed is the government, is this House, and they are members of this government. But if we live up to our commitment, that is our duty, and if there is an alternative, I am certainly not convinced. I don't think he does. And I'm certainly no supporter of rape or Agrofert. The question is, is there an alternative? I'm afraid I don't see her. It's just a choice between worse and less evil for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u77	I thank Mr Benešík and we continue to make factual remarks. Mr Miroslav Kalousek's point of fact. Before I give you my word, Mr rapporteur, I will ask the House for peace. I understand some are upset that he hasn't passed the procedural proposal, but we'll wait for it to calm down a bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u78	I merely refer to Mr Urban's question and the Minister's reply. During my ministerial period, I experienced a number of notifications that were negotiated at the working level, and then it took quite a long time for them to be definitively decided. So there's no way to talk about a finished notification, that's for sure. That's why I think it's very short-sighted that the interruption didn't go through. But what we can't do, what we couldn't handle with a procedural proposal, we can certainly do with our own strength. So I don't think this bill can be approved before the notification takes place. But one small remark, colleagues. Many times MEPs have criticized YES and their chairman's practice of stickers, as the law on hunting has always been passed on to the law on burial. It criticizes the Senate, it's very allergic, it's very allergic to the Constitutional Court. What you're discussing right now is a clean sticker. The Air Protection Act is glued to the excise duty. I will argue so in the Senate, and I will probably argue so also with the Constitutional Court. If you want to keep what you promise, don't approve of stickers. Pull it back and do it legislatively properly. This is a sticker, and you have declared it legally inadmissible many times. You've treated it many times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u79	Thank you, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec also made a point of fact, although he is duly registered as the first with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u80	Thank you. Well, here, a decent minister doesn't get to say anything but a point of fact. I apologize to the Minister of Agriculture at the beginning. [[unintelligible]] I've got two minutes, maybe I'll get a word in. To Mr Kučer. I'm so flustered that I've come to the word that I've come without protection, even though I'd like to put it on my head because I kind of feel like it. But please, just to do what's being created here for some speculation, how the Air Protection Act was used, how oligarchistically, I allow myself to use that word, it's stuck somewhere. It's just because the gros air protection law, the amendment, is really in paragraphs 19a, 19e, which talks about how to avoid circumvention of the law, when there were normally companies that were supposed to mix all year, they fulfilled that obligation for up to 12 months, respectively. they didn't fill it at all because the 12th month went bankrupt. The General Directorate of Customs has been arguing with the Ministry of the Environment for a year. That's the absolute gros of that part of the amendment to the Air Protection Act. About what my colleague Jurečka said. So if the information does not deceive me, and this is actually an addition to what Mr Kalousek wanted, that if I am not mistaken, the European Commission has given as a condition for notification to allow incorporation, respectively. the fulfilment of the obligation of high-percent or net biofuels was zero. Zero. Originally it was possible to move it freely, then it was 30 percent and today it is zero. That means very probably the same if the notification, it runs, so I don't even think it's a problem. Time is relentless, so I don't think I'm gonna say any more, so I'm gonna have to sign up again with another factual reminder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u81	Well, thank you, Minister. I'd rather have your proper application paid. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u82	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to report with a factual remark so that Minister Brabec could just perform, so I volunteered the moment I saw him press the button. I would like to respond briefly here to what has been said, and thank you to Minister Jurečka for responding to the call and for saying how it is with the notification that it is running. But at the same time, I say that I agree and support Mr Urban's proposal and I propose - I call on the House to vote on the interruption of this point. I'm definitely gonna vote. And the answers. I mentioned it yesterday, and I'd like to get the answer. In point 3.1, we're talking about it, it's already been said here today that the contribution to public budgets is going to be 14,6 to 16.2 billion. Crowns. Yesterday I asked, I didn't get an answer. I hope to get it today or subsequently - whether there was any calculation, any study as to how this number came about, whether it was created on the basis of some real calculations, calculations, facts, or how the number was found there, because it significantly changes the benefits or the disadvantages of this thing. And then I also asked the question that I had registered - and I repeat again that I am not saying this in any way - that it will bring a profit of 20 billion for Agrofert Group companies. I'm not saying that. I was just asking what kind of order we're moving in. I know it's not the 5 billion that the profit is from the sale. But let me know that we're moving in order one way or the other, if that's the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u83	Thank you. But, Ambassador, I have a question. You said you were proposing a break, but you didn't say a deadline. So I can't let the proposal vote in a procedural way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u84	No, I said I support my colleague Urban's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u85	Oh, you do. So you're not propositioning anything. Okay. Now, then, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, with a factual remark. If you're checking out, that's okay. Then, in that case, with a factual remark, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u86	Thank you for the floor. I volunteered at the time when... However, I would like to ask, because we will probably not finish the discussion today, so that next time, the Minister of Agriculture will come up with evidence that the notifications have been made. I've been a little unsure about his behavior. 'Cause I sensed it at first that it didn't happen, then it didn't happen. So I'm a little freaked out. Otherwise, I'm really sorry if we're pissed off here, what's yellow gross or what's been going on here, if we shouldn't have negotiated a more important law as a major market power, so that it finally reaches a goal. One. And second, the contract register. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u87	I thank Mr Laudát. Mr Stanjura's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u88	I have a procedural proposal to suspend this item until 16 June, which is the first day of the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u89	Well, that's possible. This is a procedural proposal which corresponds to the Rules of Procedure Act. So, Prime Minister, you're proposing in 14 hours? In order to allow the President, if necessary, to convene a meeting on the Organising Committee. You only suggested June 16th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u90	I'll be more specific. Until the next meeting, so it's no doubt what I meant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u91	Until the next meeting, thank you. So we can act before June 16th. Okay, I understand that. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applications has been settled, we will decide on this procedural motion in the 207 vote... which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 207, from 128 in favour of 120, against 5. The motion was accepted. We interrupted item number 25, excise duty bill, until June 16th. The Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka is now reporting with priority rights among the points. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u92	I'd like a moment more of your attention, my dear fellow colleagues. Given that there are a lot of comments and obviously that we can move forward and make some agreement within the Chamber of Deputies, I would ask that each member's club send one expert on this issue. And I'm going to want to do a meeting on this issue next week to look for consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u93	Therefore, with priority rights, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u94	You remembered that a little late, Minister. This is done during the legislative process. Now all we have to do is act on the committees at second reading. We're definitely not sending you anybody. When you yourself downloaded your expert comments during the legislative process to pressure Agrofert, we will not trust any group now. There'll probably be a second reading, and that's where we'll be discussing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-015-025.u95	Well, thank you. And since all other items have been excluded from the agenda and this item has been interrupted by 16 June of this year, the content of the meeting is exhausted. I'm saying goodbye. Have a good evening. The political grémium will meet tomorrow after lunch or lunch in Suché Loz, as decided. Have a good night.
