ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u1	4. Government draft Act on State Bond Programmes to cover part of the state budget deficit for 2013, part of the budget deficit of the State budget for 2014 and some of the State's debts due in 2015 and 2016 /German press 329/ - second reading Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is ready to make a proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, first I will answer my fellow Members, because what we have approved concerns the bonds 2015 and 2016 and we need to finish this past period. So every year, our state issues bonds to pay off the debt due, and so it either issues it to cover the deficit, of course, or as we did, that even though we had the deficit, we even reduced the government debt. And if anyone doesn't understand, I'd be happy to take him to the Treasury and explain it to him. Even private companies have cash poolings, so when someone has 300 companies, some companies have money in their accounts, some have debts. And when someone organizes it, basically the money that's in the account is going to be used for debt, and that's going to reduce it, so it's going to be organized by cash flow. And we started doing that at the Treasury Department, and we made 233 miles on it. for last year. So we have to do those bonds repeatedly. Now, we have approved the amendment to the Budgetary Rules Act, according to which no longer will it be necessary to authorise the issue of government bonds to cover the budget deficit of the State budget or to issue government bonds to cover the repayment of the sovereign debt provided for by the special law, and the special law will only be necessary in case the actual deficit is higher than the budgeted, and therefore the money borrowed through the sale of government bonds will have to cover the amount that the State Budget Act did not count on. Therefore, a bill such as this will no longer be submitted by the government in the future. We will come up with a draft law authorising the issue of government bonds exceptionally - so I hope it does not come. And it is like when a law on the issuance of government bonds was once adopted to finance measures to eliminate the effects of the floods and, in that case, that the real deficit would be higher than the budgeted one, which hopefully will also be quite exceptional. I would just like to remind you what I said at the beginning of the first reading that the Ministry of Finance decided not to increase debt in 2015 and when we reduced our debt by 19.7 billion in 2014 for the first time since 1995. CZK 1663.7 billion. CZK, so our efforts will certainly be to avoid exceeding this value. [[17.10 hours]] Therefore, the Ministry of Finance will only sell government bonds with a cumulative nominal value not exceeding the sum of the amounts used at the same time for repayment of the sovereign debt. At the same time, I just want to say that our countries are enjoying very good ratings and ten-year bonds are becoming increasingly attractive, even today we are already on coupon 0.5, even our bonds are doing better trading than Germany's bonds. Our reputation is very good and I'm glad we're doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. Let me state two apologies before we go on, namely, Vice-President Jaroslava Jermanová, for work reasons and colleague Marek Černoch, also for work reasons from 17.10. We have ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The Committee's resolution was delivered as the House's press 329/1. I ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Václav Votava, take the floor, and after his speech, I will launch the debate in which I have my colleague Kalousek signed up. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, let me introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of its 15th meeting, held on 13 November 2014 on this government bill. Following the opening remarks of the Deputy Minister of Finance and the rapporteur, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies, that the Government's draft Act on State Bond Programmes to cover part of the State Budget deficit for 2013 and part of the 2014 budget deficit and some of the State's debts due in 2015, 2016, the House's press 326, approved this without comment; Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which I have also done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u5	I thank the President of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votav. I am opening a general debate, which was first signed up by the chairman of the TOP 09 club Miroslava Kalousek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, just a few comments. Firstly, the answer to the rhetorical question put here by Mr Vilímec, if, at the time we approved budgetary rules that no longer require the government to approve bond programmes, if they do not go beyond the approved framework of the Chamber of Deputies, if it is worth discussing this. Honestly, this is the thing that bothers me least of all, because if we're in the field of political decisions, we've all made that decision before. Please note that when approving state budget laws in addition to individual indicators, there is also a wording on the financing of the deficit proposed, and it is always said that so much and so much will be financed by the issuance of government bonds, so much and so much of the operations on state financial assets, and perhaps so much and so much credit from the European Investment Bank. It's a little different every year. But this is the political decision that each of us is making, in essence, when we pass the State Budget Act, i.e. the 2014 deficit settlement has already been politically decided at the end of 2013, when the Chamber of Deputies voted on the state budget. However, since the Act on the State Budget is not a law like any other, it is basically an executive standard promoted by the Chamber of Deputies to the law, and therefore only the Chamber of Deputies approves it, not Parliament as a whole, while the laws on bond programs are standard laws, which must also be approved by the Senate, so paradoxically this political decision has always had to be repeated. Then the law had to be passed. Again, that does not bother me, because a legitimate political decision has been made every time the Chamber of Deputies voted on the State Budget Act, where the deficit settlement is also one of the paragraphs. What bothers me in this context is not exactly the fair approach of the Ministry of Finance, which does not respect the political responsibility for deficits in individual years in this draft. I would like to, or maybe not, but I would feel obliged to sign up for the political responsibility for the 2013 deficit bonds, but I do not want to bear any responsibility for the 2014 deficit compensation. And I would very much like to express this difference by voting. Which doesn't give me a chance because it puts in one package. In other words, I can stay the vote as long as I can. It's not fair. Technically, it's probably convenient, I understand that the issuer has its reasons, I can understand it. But in terms of who is to make transparent and for the history of defending political decisions, that is not fair. It's not fair to put it in one package, because we should all sign up for our political responsibilities. This is the first point and the reason why we will abstain from voting on this programme, even if we would like to support at least half of the volume, because we are claiming political responsibility for it. The second point concerns debt reduction, although the deficit is increasing. Of course, that's what we do when we empty the granaries and better use existing liquidity thanks to that dysfunctional cash register. I'm always fascinated to hear in one sentence how the Treasury is dysfunctional and how it reduces state debt. Either one or the other. I don't want to get involved. It is possible, but only to a certain extent. And here I dare say a certain restraining warning. At a time when there was a huge risk... [[The speaker is silent.]] Sorry, Mr President, it's very lively on the left. I'll wait. No, of course I'll wait. I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u7	Mr. Ambassador, I'm going to ask my colleagues, including members of the government, to discuss something other than the state bond program, virtually. The programmes were transferred outside the House so that Mr Kalousek could finish his speech in peace. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u8	I'm in no hurry. I can wait for my colleagues to finish. Thank you for understanding. Of course, in 2008, 2009, when there was a huge risk of no liquidity, because the crisis was called a debt crisis of the state, and when it was quite appropriate to create relatively massive reserves for needs, if the liquidity were either not available or would be intolerablely expensive, so under conditions that were extremely advantageous at the time, we created relatively massive reserves that we could start to dissolve. In 2013, I started it, claiming political responsibility. I reduced the reserve by 110 billion. Indeed, even then, not this year for the first time, there was a decline in government debt. If you don't buy the grain and take it out of your own granaries, you don't have to buy it, everyone will understand that, even though you have a deficit. I can also understand the operation made by Minister Babiš in 2014 against some critics. But the fact is, after this operation, the debt service reserves are at, I'd say, the operating minimum, and the only thing the state can calculate with is an overview of the cash flow on individual accounts thanks to that dysfunctional Treasury, otherwise there wouldn't be any overview. And that's not a dramatic number. These are tens of billions, and at a time of not entirely predictable turbulence, the reserve may be sufficient. [[17.20 hours]] Now I say this as a very friendly warning or memento that these operations are not repeatable indefinitely. They were rational in 2013, I am ready to defend and support the operation that Minister Babiš did in 2014. But when I hear him say he doesn't want to increase state debt in 2015, which is a contradiction with what you approved - when you passed the State Budget Act, you said you agreed to increase the government debt by about 9 billion, so at the moment the Minister is more ambitious than his own law, he wants to push it down on the other 9 billion. There's no other way he's gonna do that than go to rendezvous with reserves. And please, very carefully here. I understand that this is how the vast majority of corporations behave in financial markets, but corporations don't have 68 percent of the mandatory and 81 percent of the quasi-mandatory spending in their budget. These pensions must be paid, even though there is no liquidity at the time, the wages of the civil servants simply have to be paid, even if there is no liquidity at the time, the social benefits that are - let us leave the appropriateness of these laws aside - must be paid even if there is no liquidity. A reasonable state doesn't come to an end without reserves. So in this context, I'm not responsible, not even any of us. In fact, only the government is responsible here. But I dare say, and that is not a criticism now, Minister, Prime Minister, a reasonable debt reserve is always a matter of the security and sovereignty of the state, as well as a good rating. Minister Babiš said a moment ago how well we stood in front of credit rating agencies and capital markets. Thank you for the compliment, Minister. That's the result of our work. [[He's laughing.]] This cannot be the result of this year's work. This is the long-term result of some work, stabilizing public finances. Yes, that really makes us stand well on the capital markets. And it must be said that the good position - I remind you that in 2011 we were the only European Union country to have increased its rating by two degrees - so, in addition to the long-term stabilisation efforts, central bank intervention contributes enormously to this. By deciding to intervene against the strong koruna, the central bank created a huge pile of liquidity on the domestic market and, of course, liquidity as a huge demand for its supply, and therefore the bonds are a little cheaper than they would normally be. Also, the Minister does not by chance - and I do not blame him - compares the position on the domestic markets, does not compare German and our bonds on the euro markets, because it would no longer look like that. But yes, in the domestic market thanks to the extremely good position of Czech public budgets and the extraordinary overhang of domestic currency liquidity, Czech bonds have this position, which is fine, but we cannot rely on this indefinitely in the current uncertain situation. And if this is where the Treasury Secretary said that even in 2015, even if he's counting on a $100 billion deficit, he doesn't count on an increase in debt, I say fine, that might work, or he doesn't have to. It's a completely unnecessary risk. A risk I buy nothing but the credit of the person presenting it to the uninformed. Those informed know it's only from the granaries that we didn't save it, we didn't make that money, we just lowered the reserves. The uninformed may applaud, but we increase our risk and increase our risk very disproportionately. I now appeal to the Minister, to the Prime Minister and to the Chamber of Deputies which approved the law. If you have approved an increase in debt by at least 8.5 billion, because you have approved it, do not push your minister into being even more ambitious. It drives completely without a reserve at any time of unpredictable turbulence - anything can happen, simply the market is not 100% stable for a few years ahead - driving without any reserve is a huge risk. You know, if you need 56 billion in the next month. money for pensions, payouts and social benefits, suddenly you don't have them. All of a sudden, you're just gonna have to borrow them, and suddenly the loan is gonna be disadvantageous. Having a reserve for a few months in advance is a reasonable and conservative approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u9	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. We will continue the debate. Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš is reporting for the debate. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Well, Mr. Kalousek is incredible, really. I wish I could do it like him. I would just like to inform you - what you voted or voted today, Mr Kalousek suggested in the past. The same thing we voted for today, Mr Kalousek suggested. It's frozen in the House. So I guess he didn't have the endgame. He's criticizing it today, and he suggested it himself. I don't understand. It is also not true that the debt 2013 has decreased. Mr. Kalousek has forgotten, but 2013 has increased the debt by 15,7 billion. So it's not true. He's lying again. That the minister was ambitious since he was a kid, so he was born. When I came to the office and I said it was 350 billion, that it was lying around somewhere, everyone made a fool of me, that I didn't know what I was talking about. I know what reserves are. Because I also ran some companies that had a turnover of 230 billion, and they were about 350, so I know something about it. And I also know that the budget that is, that this revenue, cost and debt is cash flow. It is a pity that Mr Kalousek has long since gone around the Czech Republic to ask how they do it around. Yes, the Treasury is dysfunctional. It cost us 5 billion. We don't have the books. If all ministries publish open data as Ministry of Finance on Friday, I will finally learn from other ministries how much they buy lawyers, advisory services, etc., cars and the like. So it's not working. So we're not fools at the Treasury Department, we know what to do. And we made that money on a better-organized cash flow. It's also not true that it's a local market. We today have a great rating on the eurobond market and we are organizing finance for the benefit of this state. We also have -- there's a lot of money here that's not in the Treasury. It's about 120 billion. In other states, it's in one basket, one cash pool. I'm sure I think we're doing a very reasonable policy. We reduced the State's interest for 2014 by about 2.7 billion compared to 2013. and I suppose we're going to lower even more because we kept reserves, but at the same time we didn't have that much money borrowed for expensive money. We're borrowing for substantially lower money today. I think I have a political responsibility to do this, and I think we did a very good job last year, that we cut the debt. Yes, some people find it abnormal that we have a deficit and at the same time the debt has decreased. We do not want to increase debt in 2015 because we want to better organise public budgets and finances for this state. I think it's positive and the House should appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u11	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister Andrea Babiš. Who's next? Mr Vilímec is still reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if he knows from what sources, from what means, from foreign means, how he paid or reduced the state debt. I think everyone would be interested. Because the Minister's exposé is very floral, but I think that I, as a Member and a man, am also an economist, have graduated from a university of economics, finance and credit, I would quite like to hear from what resources the Ministry of Finance has reduced government debt if it has reached a deficit, a normal budget deficit of 77 billion. This means, from what sources, the Minister talks about foreign sources, 120 billion - are these the sources of municipalities, regions, or others? Or what resources he borrowed to reduce the government's debt by 17 billion and to make up for the 77 billion deficit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u13	Thank you. Mr Michal Kučera's point of view. Then Mr. Pavel Holík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would like to reply indirectly to my colleague Vilímc, from what sources. I have now read from open sources that Minister Babiš defended the position of the most indebted person in the Czech Republic last year, 2014, as he says. He owes 25 billion crowns. Maybe there's an answer. Because if the Czech budget is managed like that of its budget, then we all know the direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Holík, on a point of fact. I don't see him. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, duly registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u16	Thank you. I don't know if I'm gonna do my company's balance here. You really amuse me, colleague, because it's obvious that you don't understand what you're talking about. My company reportedly made about 230 billion sales last year. And current assets, foreign sources are pluses. And EBITDA makes about 16,5 billion. Well, try to find some guidance counselor, so somebody can figure out what it's about. If you feel that 230 billion 23 billion debt is too much, I'm sorry, but then I guess you don't understand. The previous speaker. Again, Mr. Kalousek has been borrowing a lot of money for bad interest. So when I came in, I said, I don't need that much 350 reserves, I just need maybe 150 or less, 120. So we're not fools at the Treasury Department. We know what we're doing. Trust me! And the markets trust us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-004-004.u17	I thank the Vice-President of the Government. Let me make an apology before the end of the general debate. Mr. Jiří Holeček apologizes from 17.30 for family reasons, from 5 pm he also apologizes for family reasons Mrs. Hana Aulická Jírovcová and Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka also from 17.30 for work reasons. I'm asking who's next in the debate. If no one, I am done with the general debate. I am initiating a debate in detail, which I also have no application for. No one is reporting from the point of view, which is why I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. Since there was no proposal that we could vote on at second reading or at third reading, there was no proposal to reject or shorten the deadline, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister. We will continue with the next point in our negotiations, which is:
