ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-008-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended, Act No. 269/1994 Coll., on the Criminal Register, as amended, and some other laws /house print 368 - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of the Interior will be presented by Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-008-020.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is based on a draft drawn up on the basis of Government Resolution 714 of 3 October 2012 on the draft law amending Act No 269/1994 Coll., on the criminal record, as amended, and some other laws approved by Government Resolution No 471 of 19 June 2013 and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. As a result of the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies, it was no longer discussed by the previous Parliament. The intention to record in the record of offences kept by the criminal record of selected offences under the special law is Act No.200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended, is modified in the draft law in accordance with the task imposed. The proposed legislation strengthens the recurrence of selected offences, crimes against public order, against civil coexistence and against property, in particular by apportioning the above-mentioned sanctions contained in the Act on offenses. In accordance with the established principle of equality before the law, acts having the characteristics of the same selected offences committed by persons who are disciplined under special laws will also be recorded, such as persons under military disciplinary authority, members of security forces, persons during the execution of prison sentences, detention or detention. There will be no record of offences involving offences committed by members of the intelligence service and special services of the Police of the Czech Republic due to the protection of the state interest. In order to assess the reliability of specific persons, additional offences under the Act on Infractions and Special Laws will also be registered. The aim is to replace the Institute of Honorary Declarations through which the reliability of natural persons has been demonstrated under special laws by a copy of the record of offences. The draft law also contains partial amendments, the implementation of which required the practical application of the Act on offenses in the conduct of infringement proceedings. The bill was made on 7. 7. 2014 submitted in accordance with the legislative rules of the Government to the President of the Legislative Council of the Government and to the Prime Minister for inclusion in the Government's agenda. The bill was discussed in the Working Commissions of the Legislative Council of the Government, in the Commission on Administrative Law, in the Committee on Financial Law and in the Committee on Criminal Law. 22 days. 9. The opinion of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government has been inserted into the eKLEP. The Prime Minister recommended to the Government to approve the bill with a view to reconsidering the suspension of the penalty in the Criminal Code. The Government has repeatedly discussed the draft law for organizational reasons and also for the purpose of eliminating the conflict with the Ministry of Finance. On 27. 10. 2014 Government approved the bill by resolution 864. The draft law was approved in the version of the Government Legislative Council's opinion. The Government also decided that the sanctions for the ban on residence will remain part of the Act on infractions, and agreed to the amendment of the Act on Occupational Soldiers, and the Minister of Finance to the amendment of the Act on Financial Administration of the Czech Republic and the Act on Customs Administration of the Czech Republic. The proposal has been modified within the meaning of the above. Proposals adopted at the Government's meeting and all the comments contained in the Government's Legislative Council's opinion were incorporated into the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-008-020.u3	I thank the Minister of the Interior and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-008-020.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, it's hard for Minister Chovanc to talk because he usually knows what she's talking about, and he'll say everything. I listened to him. So he really said everything about those offences. I just want to add, so rather shorten it for those who are interested, that there is no central record of offences at present, except for offences in road transport and environmental matters. So, in fact, the state described above doesn't allow for any effective fight against negative and recurrent crime, for the sake of simplification. Petty thefts, minor acts of violence quite often escape the attention of administrative authorities. For this reason, I will personally welcome the criminal record as a practice on this line, and I will be glad to see that it will work. He'll help all decent people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-008-020.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate which Mr Radim Holeček was the first to enter. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-008-020.u6	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will just immediately follow up on my previous speaker and say that this government proposal wants to properly introduce a more severe penalty for recurrence in more serious offences and these offences will be recorded in the criminal record. I totally agree with that. The government of Petr Nečas already had this amendment to the law of transgression on the table. The problem at present, however, is that there is no central record of offences, and I, as Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Privacy, am not excited about creating another register from which data could be lost. I've already criticized it myself today - the school bill register. But in this case, it's a registry in the positive sense of the word, but only in the case of offences where by chaining them, the x-th offense will be considered a criminal offence. So in terms of privacy, the purpose criterion is fulfilled. This register could effectively and effectively help combat the backpacking crime that is very much troubling my Ústí region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-008-020.u7	I thank Mr Holečka and ask who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. It's not like that. We will therefore consider the proposal for a committee's order for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for consideration to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. First, I'm going to check you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this bill to the constitutionally-legal committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 20, registered 126 Members, for 124, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I conclude the first reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item on our agenda... [[Minister Chovanec is a bit rusty leaving the news desks.]] The minister likes the newsstand, but we're already on another law. It's...
