ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-002-064.u1	64. Government proposal to give prior consent to the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Statute of the European Foundation (FE) establishing, in the field of European Union law, a uniform supranational legal form of the Foundation, which will exist in parallel with national foundations (a German press 362-E/ The Government has submitted a proposal for prior approval of the House pursuant to Section 109i. (f) the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies without undue delay, so as to enable its timely consultation. The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-002-064.u2	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to put forward a proposal for prior approval to the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Statute of the European Foundation. The new regulation should simplify the cross-border activity of publicly beneficial entities by establishing basic uniform rules. At the same time, thanks to its 'European label', the regulation should provide publicly beneficial operators with a form of advertising, increase their credibility for their donors and thus attract more funding resources for them. The aim of the regulation is not to harmonise national legislation in individual Member States, but to introduce a new transnational legal form, which will exist in addition to the forms of publicly beneficial entities governed by the laws of each Member State. In addition to the constitutionalization of this new form so far, the foundation sector in the Czech Republic is very welcome, as we had the opportunity to register at the Ministry of Justice. A framework position was approved for the proposal in 2012, followed by the two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic. The reason why we are presenting the material to Parliament now is that it is based on the so-called evolutionary clauses under the Treaty of Lisbon, Article 352 of the Treaty and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate are subject to the prior consent of the two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic. So, if we were to sum up, the possibility of establishing this new form of foundation in the Czech Republic should be enforced, because this corresponds not only to European standards but also to the interests of the Czech Republic, so that it has legislation comparable to other EU Member States. The proposal is submitted to the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its prior consent at the moment when the essential features of its final text are known. In this context, I would like to point out that, in the case of legislative proposals which are very often accepted by changes during negotiations, it is sometimes difficult to reconcile the procedures at national level with those in the institutions of the European Union. The national procedure for granting prior consent takes several months. The scope for analysing the new text of the proposal before it is discussed in the institutions of the European Union is significantly shorter. That is why, I think, the timing, the discussion now in the Chamber of Deputies and then in the Senate is difficult, but now at the right moment. This is also related to my request for you to support the proposal. [[11.10 hours]] One more word of language. Unfortunately, the text of the proposal modified during negotiations in the EU institutions is not usually available in Czech language, only in English. Translations are made only at the beginning, when the proposal is submitted by the European Commission, and at the end, after the proposal has been approved by the Council of the EU and the European Parliament, or the final text. For this reason, the current Czech version of the proposal could not be submitted to Parliament of the Czech Republic at the moment, because we are not at the very beginning, we have it in Czech or at the end of the final version. I would therefore like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to give their prior consent to the proposal. I would like to stress that the Government of the Czech Republic will always ask for the prior consent of the Parliament of the Czech Republic again if it were to acknowledge the version of substantial content changes that has now been presented during the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-002-064.u3	Thank you, Minister of Justice. The President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered by his decision number 26 of 18 November 2014 this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on European Affairs and set a deadline for that by 10 December 2014 at 10 o'clock. The Committee has proposed to discuss and adopt the resolution delivered to you as House press 362-E/1 and 2. I ask now that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Ondřej Benešík, be given the floor, to inform you of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-002-064.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, the Committee on European Affairs, has dealt with this point on 9 December, so we have reached the deadline. Now, allow me to read the recommendation resolution, because I believe that the Minister has explained this point in the way it was supposed to, in a rather exhausting way, and therefore there is no reason to repeat itself. Now on this resolution: the Committee on European Affairs after hearing the information of Deputy Minister of Justice Mgr Petr Jägr, after hearing Mr Ondřej Benešík's report and after the debate, recommends: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its prior consent to the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Statute of the European Foundation establishing a unified supranational legal form of the Foundation, which will exist in parallel with national foundations. So much for a recommendation resolution. I would like to make a brief comment on what the Minister mentioned here, namely that the proposal was not final at the time when we were discussing this proposal. However, we have decided, and I assume that the House has also acted on the current text, and that is why we have adopted an accompanying resolution that reminds more or less what the government would have done anyway, but still for order, namely if the essential features of the proposal were to be changed or any new issues were to be proposed, we have therefore pointed out to the Government that, in such a case, it must come to the Chamber of Deputies again with this modified proposal. I would therefore, if only for the sake of order, just read the accompanying resolutions relating to this: Committee on European Affairs after hearing the information of Deputy Minister of Justice Mgr Petr Jägr, after hearing Mr Ondřej Benešík's report and after the debate 1. Believes that to ensure effective control of government by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic within the meaning of Section 109i letters. (f) Law No 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, on decisions taken by the Government for the Czech Republic in the institutions of the European Union, the Chamber of Deputies should always be presented with a text of documents which already reflects the political agreement of the Member States to express its prior consent; 2. Notes that it has no substantive reservations as to the content of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Statute of the European Foundation establishing, in the field of European Union law, a single transnational legal form of the Foundation, which will exist in parallel with national foundations; 3. Calls on the Government to re-submit a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Statute of the European Foundation establishing, in the field of European Union law, a single transnational legal form of the Foundation, which will exist in parallel with national foundations, on the basis of a proposal for prior approval; 4. Calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of the progress of the discussion of the document in the institutions of the European Union; 5. Calls on the Government to assess tax risks when negotiating the final form of the regulation. Such an accompanying resolution by the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-002-064.u5	I thank Mr Benešík and open a general debate in which I do not see any application at the moment. I would just like to point out that, in the debate under Paragraph 109 of the Rules of Procedure, only a motion to reject or adjourn the Government's proposals can be tabled. If no one's going to the debate, I'm done with the debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister, or the rapporteur. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the motion for a resolution because the motion for rejection did not fall. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution as presented by Mr Benešík, rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 37. 155 Members and Members are registered, for 124, against none. The motion was accepted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
