ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u1	43. Government bill amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, Act No. 218/2003 Coll., on the responsibility of young people for unlawful acts and on the judiciary in matters of youth and on the amendment of certain laws (the Youth Justice Act), as amended, and Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended / House print 503/ - first reading The Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán will also make this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, this proposal is primarily aimed at making the so-called preparation. electronic bracelets were allowed to use these electronic bracelets in some cases where they could replace the binding. This should be a rather significant ease in the situation of persons who need to be secured in some way for the purposes of criminal proceedings, and so far must be done in a very intervening way, that is to say, putting them into custody. Instead, it would be possible to do so by deciding that an electronic bracelet will be attached to them, thus controlling their movement and non-compliance with the defined space to which they will be relied. The proposal then, when the penal code is being opened, also provides for the extension of the authorisation of the military police authorities to conduct investigations into certain criminal offences, where knowledge of the environment plays a decisive role. Finally, the proposal envisages abolishing the obligation of regular judicial review of the duration of outpatient treatment - I stress - protective treatment. In practice, it shows that all my well-known experts - psychiatrists - agree that this is a formality, where the court only formally examines regularly whether protective treatment should continue. Not only is it a mere formality that doesn't solve anything and just burdens the courts, but it is also something that disrupts the treatment process, because it weakens, according to experts, the trust of the treated person in his doctor. I would like to emphasise once again - these are cases of outpatient treatment. None of this changes the rules of hospitalization treatment, and it has nothing to do with the issue of media-known precisely those who are released outside of institutional treatment and then commit ugly things. In summary, the main thing this proposal is about is electronic bracelets instead of bonding. It's something that's quite important if those electronic bracelets have anything to do with it. I therefore beg you very much to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u3	Thank you, Minister. I beg the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Marie Benešová, on her report. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister here has presented this government proposal, which I consider practical. He's solving three circles of trouble, as he said. It is mainly a desired and expected proposal for electronic monitoring, which should replace the binding. As you know, the prisons are overcrowded, and at the moment, there's probably about 98 percent utilization. I was in one of those prisons myself last week, and they were slowly putting extra beds in the hallway. so it is necessary to address this alarming state. I'm sure we'll welcome this. I think it's gonna help a lot. I think it's also a modern instrument that has many Western countries. As regards the second area, as the Minister said, this is an extension of the heading to members of the armed forces concerned by the second part. As far as the Institute of Protection Treatment is concerned, outpatient treatment is addressed, not constitutional. This needs to be stressed. Here formalisms will be broken down by abolishing regular judicial reviews and formalising the entire proceedings. It remains to be added that, overall, it will cost something, especially electronic monitoring, there will be a need for input capital. This amount is over CZK 10 560 000, and then there will definitely be maintenance operating costs, which will also represent some 12,5 million crowns. I assume this will be covered by the Justice Department chapter, which has not been said, but there is no other option. I propose that this government proposal be released for second reading and directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate which Mr Ondráček, Mr Benda, was the first to enter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u6	Good evening, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As my previous speakers mentioned, the proposal deals with three circuits. The first circuit is probably the least problematic, which means the bracelets. I think we can agree on that. It's been a long time since we've worked for bracelets. Certainly for the mention, and I think we should also have a discussion, is the thing where the Military Police want to be an investigating body for the crimes of members of the armed forces and persons committing crimes against members of the armed forces in military objects or against military objects. The reason is that it overburdens the Police of the Czech Republic. That means 50 to 60 cases a year. So to say that this is redundant and that it will increase the efficiency and economics of the criminal proceedings that result from this fact, I think it is not entirely true. The fact that the Military Police have indisputably greater knowledge of the structure, internal regulations, practices and procedures within the Ministry of Defence is another nonsense from my point of view. Similarly, they could argue, for example, the competent authorities of the Prison Services of the Czech Republic in criminal proceedings within prisons. They too certainly have more knowledge of the structure of internal regulations, customs and procedures within prisons than the authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic. On the contrary, I think there is always a need to ensure impartiality, bias and full objectivity of the investigation, which may not always be guaranteed for the same component. It is therefore fully sufficient for the designated authorities of the Military Police to carry out investigations and to consider that they can conduct investigations into the crimes of soldiers committed in carrying out tasks abroad. That's where they're doing it today. Another rather interesting topic is the latter, namely the termination of the controls on protective treatment. We need to have a broad expert discussion here. It cannot simply be concluded that a regular review of the duration of protective treatment in both forms, i.e. outpatient and constitutional, which is carried out in adults every two years and in adolescents once a year, from the point of view of the personnel capacities of individual district courts and health establishments where protective treatment is carried out, constitutes an excessive, in particular an administrative burden, and therefore narrows itself to the form of constitutional. I don't think that's the way to go. Let us remember the recent case, at the end of which was the death of a young student in Žďár na Sázavou or the death of a young librarian in Plzeň. The perpetrators of these crimes, crimes, were previously treated with psyche disorders, which were likely to continue to be treated, but were not treated and killed instead. I can already hear the humanists screaming that we want to put those poor sick people in treatment. And I say yes. If there's no other effective way, it's possible to go to the treatment center. Mainly to protect society from them, because the boy and the young woman had their whole lives ahead of them, and if they could effectively protect them, they could be there for the company, for their families. So let's conclude. If anyone in this discussion proposes to return the petitioner to the recast, I will be all right with that. If not, we will certainly have a professional discussion in the constitutional law committee. I think that the Health Committee could also comment on the trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u7	I thank Mr Ondráček. Another duly registered member is Mr Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u8	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I know it is too late that we are all tired of this heat today, but I will not forgive myself for a few remarks about this press. Note one. I think it is extremely unfortunate if the Ministry presents two amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure at one meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I know there's been a month and a half between them in the government, but it really doesn't seem to be very good about the conceptual work of the Ministry. Today and daily we are convinced by the professional public how desperate and hopeless it is that we amend some laws more times a year. And here the Penal Code brings us one ministry after a month and a half of a novel. A little bit there, Minister, make sure you're okay. Let someone write down all the problems that exist and then bring them here, but in this way we make fun of the professional public in particular. But I wouldn't apply for that. I think it's much more fundamental that I want to ask the Minister what's going on with the electronic bracelets. Do we have them ready? They're gonna start working? Do we have them competing? Under whom do they start working? Here comes a noble novel that says something that was said a long time ago that electronic bracelets can replace prison punishment. So far, as we all know, it's not working. Now we say, it will be possible to replace the enforcement measures. Unfortunately, I'm afraid it won't work either, because today's law enforcement authorities have a link as a way of letting someone soften and not as a protection measure under the Code of Criminal Procedure. But let us believe that perhaps, at least in the case of escape bonds, it might in some way help in a few cases. Believe me, I, as a person who thinks that until a person is convicted, is to be viewed as innocent, so if it's a case unit that doesn't sit in custody and they're home with electronic bracelets, I'll always support it. I just want to know how much it's really prepared, or it's just another legislative activity that says we're making something possible, but we're not really done yet. It also occurs here as if there are special shifts, that it was originally said that the Probation and Mediation Service is doing this, suddenly the law says that it is done by the Ministry or by its established component in cooperation with the Probation Service. These are really questions that point to how it is prepared in the Ministry. Indeed, the Ministry will carry out the control of prisoners by its body or its established component, and when it is really possible and likely that the bracelets will really work for the prisoners, or even possibly for the ties, which I would of course also consider useful. Although, as I say, I don't really believe it's going to be used massively. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u9	I thank Mr Benda. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u10	When I'm asked, I'm happy to answer. Mr President, honourable Members, when it comes first to the fact that we are actually putting two amendments to the Penal Code in one meeting, do not think that I am happy about this. Then I don't always know which one is which. But on the other hand, to find something positive in this, too - I hope it doesn't happen again - but it will, I know it will, but we will try not to. After all, these are thematically different questions, and I'm afraid that you'd be begging us again for mixing things in one draft, not to mention that it's possible that especially the other one, if we get to it tonight, will have a little more complicated passage through the legislative process, and it would be bad if she held this up for us. Which brings me to the answer to your second question. We are actually very intensively preparing these electronic bracelets. According to the current work schedule, we should start at least some pilot or test operation in January 2016. It is not a timetable that I would like to guarantee with my head that it will follow, but it is a timetable that I require at the moment - and so far we are prosecuting it, so far it has not tarried anywhere. Even if he stays, which may happen because there's a tender, and you know how it is with the tenders, he'll stay a few months at most. So basically, we should be able to do this at the same time as the efficiency, or roughly at the same time as the effectiveness of this proposal, it is also technically prepared. Once again, I dare say, if we did it the other way around, first we tried to wear bracelets, and then the law, then you'd be pouting us again or the SAO would be pissing us off for getting bracelets here that we don't really need legislatively yet. Anyway, at this point, an optimistic report - I believe the electronic bracelets will be in such a short time that it will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u11	Thank you, Minister. Mr Benda is now reporting for the floor. Looks like he wants to piss off the Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u12	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I never patronize anyone. I may do that at home to the children, but certainly not in this House. But only what the Minister said. The law now assumes the possibility of electronic control. It should have existed a long time ago. It was supposed to exist for the prisoners. So making excuses that we couldn't prepare electronic bracelets because we don't have a legal basis for it, so it really seems a little bit like scratching behind an ear that I can't quite reach. That's not the point. I asked those questions because you're kind of changing the concept that was here. So far, it has been said: Probation and Mediation Service does it. He can do it through checks or through bracelets. All of a sudden you're saying it's the ministry that might cooperate, maybe it won't cooperate with the Probation and Mediation Service. That's why I asked about the bracelets. If you already have an idea of a tender that does not do the Probation and Mediation Service, the Probation and Mediation Service does not order it, the Ministry orders it itself, which later - but to be aware of it - is responsible for every prisoner who escapes you. And he's not gonna be the head of the prison service. He's not gonna be head of Probation and Mediation Services. It will be the Ministry, who will be personally responsible for possible escapes of prisoners who will be under the electronic control system. I'm just asking if all of this is being made up when we just have the authorities that they're carrying out, and suddenly for me an unclear reason, maybe because of the selection procedures, the ministry is pulling this exercise of prison surveillance. I don't know if it's the smartest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u13	I thank Mr Benda. Minister with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u14	Thank you. I'll explain later. I really forgot about that. The reason is simple. Of course, the acquisition of an electronic system represents some fixed costs which are not entirely small and which are much larger than the variable costs, i.e. than the cost of one bracelet. So, economically, the more bracelets we have, the cheaper it'll be for us to go on one bracelet. [[20.30 hours]] So, logically, we were wondering if we could use these bracelets for something other than house arrest, and we found out that we did, and that the bond was directly available. After all, we are going to apply this to other prison applications, such as the employment of prisoners outside prisons. For this reason, we also had to move the administration of the system to the umbrella organization of both Probation and Mediation Services and Prison Services, and that's us, that's the Ministry of Justice. So that's the logic. The fact that we're also getting rid of the possible shade of responsibility, that's true, but good intentions are always punished for good. All I have to do is hope that not many of these prisoners are running away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u15	Thank you, Minister. With another proper application, Mr. Václav Klučka. After that, Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I had such a small dilemma because the issue of Prison Service, which is dealt with by the Security Committee, and the question of the Military Police, it is again the Defence Committee. I narrowed it down. So let the Constitutional Legal Committee deal with the issue of bracelets for the Prison Service and use in custody, but I would suggest that we also discuss this law in the Defence Committee in terms of the extended powers of the Military Police.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm registering his motion for a defense committee. Mr Václav Benda has applied for the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Marek, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u18	Last remark in this debate. Mr. Secretary, you haven't convinced me that it's supposed to be directly under your department, but I think it's something that's solved between first and second reading. You'll have to be much more convincing to me on the committee that you want to take the responsibility on yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u19	I apologize to Mr Benda for not being able to come up with his name. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I will end the debate. The Organizing Committee has proposed that this press be discussed and ordered to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. I'm asking if anyone else is suggesting another committee as a guarantee. It's not like that. So I will call our colleagues from the lobby and we will vote on the commandment of this press to discuss the guarantee committee to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 182 vote. 155 Members and Members are registered. For 128, against none. I note that we have ordered this press to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. I am registering Mr Václav Klučka's proposal to vote on the Commandment of the Defence Committee. Please, madam, I'm calling for a word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u20	Good evening, Mr. Vice-President. I think my colleague Klučka has misjudged himself, and it's not supposed to be a defense committee, but it's supposed to be a security committee under which the prison service is actually under. We approve both the Security Committee and the Ministry of Justice's budget. It was formed under the Committee on Security and the Sub-Committee on Prisons, chaired by Dr Bebarová-Rujbrová, so it would seem perfectly logical for the Security Committee to address this issue. And I propose to the next committee to order this bill to the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-011-043.u21	There. My colleague Klučka didn't get over it. A colleague of the Klučka Gesticulation indicated that he agreed to the defence committee's proposal. Mrs Černochová proposes a Committee on Security. I'm asking if anyone else is suggesting another committee. It's not like that. So we're going to vote. First of all, Mr Klučka's proposal for this press to be directed to the Defence Committee. Initiating vote on the command of the Defence Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 183. 156 Members and Members are registered. For 119, against none. The motion was accepted. We will also vote on Mrs Černochová's proposal for this press to be directed to the Security Committee. Initiating vote on the Security Committee's commandment. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 184 vote. 156 Members and Members are registered. For 135, against none. We have also adopted this proposal. I am therefore of the opinion that we have ordered this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee and to the Defence and Security Committees. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur, and I end the first reading of this bill. The next item in our negotiations today is point number
