ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Sales Registration Act /House print 514/ - third reading I ask the Minister to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-002-002.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to respond in this speech to the various lies, nonsense and half-truths that we have heard here in the past and hear from some of our colleagues. I would like to say that the e-booking project aims to straighten the business environment in the Czech Republic, distorted by the fact that some entrepreneurs do not properly pay taxes on their sales and thus obtain an unfair competitive advantage. For this very reason, EET is supported both by most business groups in the Czech Republic and by most citizens of the Czech Republic. This is a revolutionary project that can move the business environment in the right direction for us. What has been said here in the debate in the past from Mr Kalousek's mouth is a mixture of half-truth and spoken nonsense. I believe that, for the most part, it is merely a lack of understanding of the basic principles of the EET. So I will try to explain and respond to the claims that have been made. As regards the cost of the State for the project, here are the costs mentioned in the study prepared by BDO in line with the costs set out in the explanatory memorandum to the law. However, they are listed in a different structure as the methodology of the study differs from that of the explanatory memorandum. Specifically, the costs of the central IT system EET, including five years of operation, will be around 1.2 billion, the costs of the salaries of analysts controllers will be around 200 million. CZK per year and finally other costs for the information campaign and other expenses, e.g. equipment of controllers or receipt lottery, e.g. Slovakia is very successful, 150 thousand attend every week. citizens, they won't exceed 100 miles. CZK a year. The study mentioned above. It is a material that was the initial specification of the project, so it is a proposal, not a definitive solution. This study is no longer up to date on all points due to changes in the course of the project, where, for example, branches of CzechPoint have been replaced by the distribution of authentication data by the Financial Administration. Therefore, it is meaningful to publish the study. (?) Mr Kalousek criticised that the costs of the EET do not include the amount - I quote - "in the order of billions for the construction of a new data centre in Zelenč" and that therefore you, Members, have been misled. I must say here that Mr Kalousek has a very bad memory indeed. The state pricer, which is a state enterprise under the control of the Ministry of Finance, has been preparing a data centre project in Zelenč since 2008. The construction project was developed in 2012, an EIA study published at the beginning of 2013. If there is anyone among us who was the Minister of Finance at this time, then let him apply. Perhaps he can confirm that from the outset, investment in a data centre of 300 miles was expected. Kč. And perhaps this former finance minister could talk about the oracle skills of employees of the State Pricing Printer and the Ministry of Finance, who had predicted the creation of the EET project since 2008. As evidence it is possible to submit an annual report of the State Price Printer for 2008 and a notice of the publication of the EIA of March 2013. Mr Kalousek, however, continued to throw billions. By multiplying the number of entrepreneurs expected by the sum of one checkout, in the Member's terminal dictionary, it has reached a sum of 5 billion, which he believes entrepreneurs have to spend. That is, of course, nonsense. Here it is necessary to clarify the fundamental difference between the EET and the registers, for which Mr Kalousek voted, by the way, ten years ago. The electronic record of sales according to the Croatian model does not require any special equipment, does not require the acquisition of a state-certified register, as perhaps in the past someone intended to do the deal. A common electronic cash register, a common computer with a printer or, for example, just a tablet or a mobile phone will suffice to EET. Here's a suggestion - when you leave this building and visit a shop or restaurant, see if the company has an electronic cash register. You will find that this is in 100 percent of the cases for larger enterprises, and then very often for smaller enterprises. For all these businesses, the principle is that they will only have to modify the software in their cash register to communicate with the Financial Administration server. Neither the consumer nor the cost can be zero. There are certain entrepreneurs, especially small businessmen who do not have or have a type that cannot communicate over the Internet. For these traders, the law contains an exceptional tax discount of 5,000. CZK, which covers the costs of simple equipment or relieves them of the cost of a better cash register. In addition, the entrepreneur will, of course, deduct the costs from the tax base. One more time for the summary. If every entrepreneur had to buy a state-certified register, even if, for example, a month ago, he bought a state-of-the-art type of cash register, this system was supported twice by Mr Kalousek in 2005. On the other hand, a system where a huge proportion of entrepreneurs will take nothing at all and the rest will choose the equipment according to their taste and not according to what the state recommends, Mr Kalousek criticizes this system. So there are things that really can't be understood. Of course, there are still other billions of Mr Kalousek, which entrepreneurs will spend on internet access. If Mr Kalousek had read the explanatory memorandum to the law, he would have learned that more than 90 percent of entrepreneurs already use the Internet for their business. In addition, I will reveal one sweet secret that the existing internet connection will be sufficient in the vast majority of entrepreneurs precisely because the size of the data sent is minimal. Of course, unless the hypermarket is connected to the Internet via a mobile phone. I assume we all know we have hypermarkets here. I would now like to mention the second fundamental principle of the functioning of the EET and to refute other unjustified concerns raised in the entrepreneurs of the opposition. The point is that the principle of EET is the communication of the machine with the machine, respectively. entrepreneur's cash registers with the Financial Administration server. This communication is completely automatic, and if there is a failure of the Internet, which may happen, the cash register automatically collects unsent receipts into memory and sends them as soon as the connection is restored. [[9.20 hours]] The claim that these receipts will be filled out by the innkeeper after the end of working time and sent to the tax office separately in order for the tax office to have to reply separately to each of them is an absurd lie. Obsessive is Mr Kalousek's concern for the beer, which he has to make in two seconds, which is perhaps not worth commenting on. Finally, I kept the top demagogy of Mr Kalousek, a supposedly informer website for customers. Here it was beautifully shown how Mr Kalousek has confidence in the citizens of the Czech Republic. Mr. Kalousek considers all a priori to be tacky creatures who have nothing to do but harm their neighbors. And I feel a little sorry for him in that. But back to the EET. On the contrary, this system gives each of us freedom of choice. The system will allow it to verify, according to the receipt data, whether the revenue has been registered and, therefore, that the tax is likely to be paid. And on the basis of these data, everyone can freely decide where to go shopping, for example. If you pay both in the price of the goods and VAT, you have every right to assume that the trader will pay this VAT and will be paid once for your pension or repair of the road you drive. Each of us has the right to deal with our money at our discretion and to decide freely who to earn and who not to. The functioning control function of the system is a logical condition for the acceptance of EET by entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs who fulfil their tax obligations properly rightly expect the State to ensure that their competition is treated equally. It is the duty of the State to ensure a level playing field for all. The situation described dramatically by Mr Kalousek, namely... the innkeeper's figures, again demonstrates a very inadequate understanding of the EET. It'll be exactly the opposite. On the contrary, the financial administration will know from the current possibilities whether the innkeeper records his sales or not. And if he does, someone can file a hundred announcements a day, it'll do him no good. Address controls are one of the essential advantages that EET guarantees entrepreneurs. Honest businessmen welcome this, because they will have to lose their administration and time, which they would now have to spend on random control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-002-002.u3	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur if he is interested in speaking. It's not like that. We have decided on a merged debate that I am opening.
