ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u1	14. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and some other laws /house print 288/ - second reading I ask Minister Marcel Chládek to take the floor and present the proposal under the authority of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, since there was already quite a broad debate and debate at first reading, where we discussed the various points of this amendment in detail, I would just like to remind myself that this amendment addresses a number of issues that have been discussed in the committees and subcommittees, as well as in the participation of the professional public. The biggest debate was on Section 16, which today, let's say, is also a rather interesting topic in the media, because a number of statesmen and statesmen are expressing themselves. And I'm sure it's a good thing that we're trying to get as many children as possible into the mainstream as we can. [[9.50 hours]] This amendment also has a practical impact on the field, such as: change in the employment of school directors from a period to an indefinite period. I assume that the rapporteur will describe the discussions on subcommittees and committees in detail, so I will just limit myself to saying that I think that on committees and subcommittees this proposal has been discussed in detail, discussed and is relatively crucial and essential for the whole of Czech education, so I firmly believe that we will discuss this point in a professional manner and, if possible, release it as quickly as possible until further reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered this proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as well as the Committee on Social Policy. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you in prints 288/1-4. First of all, I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová, and Mrs Chalánková will be prepared after her. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u4	Good morning, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to being the rapporteur of the Press Committee 288, I am also the rapporteur of this press in the House. As has already been said, the press has been ordered by two committees, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, and the Social Committee. Both these committees discussed and adopted resolutions in detail both in the subcommittees and in the committee meetings. In addition, until now, there are amendments in the system that will be read today. I must warn you that there are 21 at the moment. I will now introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the justification of the Minister for Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek for the Ministry of Education and Intelligence, recommends Ms Vlasta Bohdalová The Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, and some other laws, as amended by these amendments. [[Education law]] As I have already said, some of the amendments that have been adopted on the school committee are included in this resolution and there are quite a lot of them. I won't read them then. Please note that you will find this entire resolution in the system under number 288/4. Furthermore, I would like to enter into a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u5	Good morning. I thank the rapporteur, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová, and now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, for a word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u6	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. At its meeting on 14 January, the Social Policy Committee dealt with Parliament's press number 288 and we have a resolution from this committee: 84. Resolution of the Committee on Social Policy on the Government Bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 288. [[Education law]] After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Petr Mlsna, the report by Mrs Jitka Chalánková and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 288, with these changes and supplements... [[Education law]] The complete printing of this resolution is in your system. I would just like to draw attention here to one amendment from this committee, which has been approved, point 3: In the first part of the article. In point 7 of Section 16a, paragraph 5 is deleted. - This is the resolution of the Social Committee, which has opened up a large debate in media space, political space, etc. II. The Social Policy Committee empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies meeting and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u7	I thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening up a general debate in which Vice-President Jermanová, Mr Kořenek, is the first with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u8	Dear colleagues, the Minister of Education is presenting a comprehensive amendment to the Education Act. This amendment brings many positive changes, but there are areas that this amendment should have adapted, but this has not happened. I am referring to the domestic diction of the law of individual education of pupils at the second grade of primary school. Home education at first level has been a standard part of the education system in the Czech Republic for 15 years. Hundreds of kids went through it in that time. They all succeeded in higher education, graduated from primary school and secondary school, and many of them are studying at universities today. Fifteen years of experience has thus proved credible that home education not only provides full socialization for its graduates, but also enables them to be successfully involved in further education levels. Fears of lack of socialization are the main reason for the reserved attitude of part of the public to home education. This is understandable from the point of view of people who have no personal experience with homeschooling and their pupils. However, parents are aware of the risks of lack of socialization and are therefore actively trying to create opportunities for joint spending time with children from other families and other social environments. Thanks to higher efficiency of home education, children have enough time for afternoon activities in different sections, clubs, to attend a number of clubs. This allows them to get in touch with a very wide spectrum of their peers, often wider than the standard school class provides. In addition, the teaching itself also often takes place in groups. Usually several families agree to allow their children to be educated in the age heterogeneous collectives. Moreover, social ties are far more beneficial for further life and social ties. In addition to attending school, none of us in our next life is moving in an age homogeneous collective. The Czech National Institute for Education recommended its legislative anchoring for the second stage. In this spirit, under the leadership of the previous Minister of Education, Petr Fiala prepared an amendment to the existing Section 41 of the School Act, whose discussion was suspended due to the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Now Minister Chládek has submitted his own proposal for an amendment to the external commentary procedure, which does not include home education at second level. In both factual and legislative terms, there are no grounds against the amendment. The draft amendment of § 41 has already been passed through internal and external commentary proceedings. Although I welcome the proposal for an amendment to the Education Act and I appreciate the efforts made to prepare it, I would like to point out that the area of home education is not addressed in the way it should, in line with the recommendations of the Ministry managed by the National Institute for Education. However, there are no substantive or legislative reasons for this. That is why I would like to table an amendment that will try to remedy this deficiency, and I will sign up to it in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u9	Thank you. Now, Mrs Putnová's point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u10	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am only pleased to say that the proposal referred to by the Vice-President has become part of the resolution of the Education Committee. The Education Committee has shown considerable agreement that individual home education should be part of our school policy system. So this legal standard, let us believe, will be enshrined in our amended school law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u11	Thank you. That was a factual point, and now with proper applications by the first Mr Kořenek, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to make a very brief remark on the already mentioned section 16a para. 5 that fell here and which was the subject of a very broad discussion. I will not discuss the various things that have taken place on subcommittees and committees, but I want to warn against releasing this part for many good reasons. As headmaster of the school and as a teacher, I have been engaged in integration and inclusion for many years. I warn you that, despite all the assurances that were made during the discussions, they will be released - and I am now not at all debating whether the wording is good or bad - I am only talking about the possibility that by releasing these two sentences, seemingly irrelevant, we will allow a much higher diagnosis of children with mental disabilities. Basically, it will only be based on medical grounds, without legal authority to judge the child in the context. The unfortunate paragraph says in the first sentence that a child always needs to be judged on the basis of the knowledge of medical science, which I think is okay because for every pupil, for every child, if you are working with a diagnosis or with some special educational need, you should clearly have a medical basis. The second sentence says that if we work with these outputs, then the cultural, social and other influences that affect the pupil need to be taken into account. I don't see anything controversial about this paragraph. Yes, there are situations where, for example, The SPC and consultancy facilities are in special schools. And here there is a reasonable concern that this position can be used to include pupils in special schools. Oh, please, it's a system error. It's a system error. And because we do not have sectoral education management, we must have some sort of authority for the central office, which is the Ministry of Education, so that it can lay down uniform rules for the advisory system. So I just want you to approach this very carefully. Then I would like to say, in general, that there are issues, as well as amendments that we have asked the Members concerned to consider whether it would be more appropriate to assess, to hold a professional debate, and to include the changes they propose in the next round of regulation of the school law. I warn against sudden changes or breaking into the laws of Members. Why? As headmaster, I have dealt with many problems that have arisen in the school law. I could remember the administrative proceedings, when the House, with all due respect, approved a matter that was completely unrealistic, and then we had to find ways in practice to implement the law and not break it, which was basically impossible. This is what happens when amendments are sometimes adopted without further continuity and context. I would then like to read the amendments to the resolution of the school committee if they were not adopted, so they will be read separately. There will be two things that will concern them. The unfortunate register of teaching staff that we first approved, and now we're canceling it again, that's a little nonsense, and I'll tell you why. The amendment to the resolution of the School Committee is deleted, respectively. replaces the points by which a new regulation of the register of pedagogical staff would be deleted from the Government's draft amendment to the Education Act. We must be aware that the introduction of this register is intended to create the prerequisites for correcting the long-term critical lack of objective statistical data on the state, the development of the pedagogical profession. The State has no tool to monitor the availability of qualified educators, their professional development, movement and stay in the educational system. I would just very briefly, that text is available to you in the amendments, pointing out one thing. As directors, we regularly performed so-called. rapid investigation. Something was constantly being researched, but in the market they were taught completely different disciplines than they were needed in schools. Besides, they weren't qualified teachers. From the moment the decree was repealed, I suspect 139, it is basically the past, which determined precise application and was replaced by a more freer law 563, so basically at the second stage you have a qualified teacher who has the appropriate education according to the section of this law, but they are not followed by the so-called. aprobation. This means teachers who have a specific qualification for a specific subject. And I think personally that if this register exists, and as the Ministry has declared, it is not a non-standard burden, because I think there are a lot of other unnecessary things in education, so in this case it could really be used to direct and obtain information for the faculty of education that needs to be studied. The second, which I consider to be much more serious, is the individual education already mentioned. I must submit that I have no problem with individual education as such, but if you read the relevant section in the school law, you will find that the decision-making power is primarily for the school head. But the headmaster doesn't have, except for the administrative rules, because he has to follow the administrative rules, any possibility to assess the complex of knowledge, knowledge, all the things that come in. I will not repeat things here about it being abused, because on the other hand individual education can help pupils with significant health disability, we have pupils who have other problems and when there really is a reason for individual education. But there is a need to lay down clear rules with everything, including the powers of the director, including the duties of the institution, the responsibilities of parents, the supervisory authorities. It is not possible to leave it as vaguely adjusted as it is at present. It can happen to us - and I was under pressure from different lobby groups, who know exactly why they want to legalize individual education in this way. Just for you. In the resolution of the Education Committee, it is proposed to add a provision to the present amendment to the Education Act, which will allow pupils to be allowed so-called in all primary schools in the Czech Republic. homeschooling. The law uses the concept of individual education at the second grade of primary school. They deliberately emphasize in all primary schools, as at present, and I would point out, in the Czech Republic individual education is possible at the second degree in some schools in experimental verification declared by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. [[10.10 hours]] The experimental verification was extended at the end of 2014, so that a primary school is now available in each region, which can allow individual education to a second degree pupil. These are schools that specialize in this agenda and manage both the related administration and the methodological management of parents, the necessary examination of pupils and the control of compliance with the conditions for individual education. In close contact with these schools is the National Institute for Education, which provides methodological assistance to schools. I am calling attention to the higher intensity of second-level education. This is why, unlike first-level education, individual education in all schools has not yet been allowed. Although experimental verification in a limited form with regard to the number of schools involved in it has produced generally good results, it must be taken into account that it is an ideal verification. The content of second-level education places higher demands on those who educate the pupil, and this also involves greater demands for the tribe school. The school director shall assess the conditions for individual education authorisation, not only in the procedure in which the authorisation is decided, but also during individual education, the director shall assess whether the expected outcomes of education are met and, where appropriate, decide to abolish individual education. Again, I would like to point out that there is no precise description of the procedure. It is clear that these situations will not be so common in the experimental verification environment, and if they do, they will be manageable with support from the State. To open this area for all primary schools in the Czech Republic, however, would mean imposing another administrative burden on schools, which can be carried more effectively by a specialised network of schools in the context of experimental verification. Therefore, in the existing model of individual education authorisation, it does not appear appropriate to extend this possibility to a second degree in all primary schools. Therefore, I would also argue that we should have a clear discussion about this and return to this subject and to the legal regulation in the next round of changes in the school law. Basically, it is necessary to discuss with school directors, with the competent authorities, how to evaluate the outputs. I would like to point out one more thing in the context of individual education that has fallen on the committee. It's about finances, because we're going to put a relatively heavy burden on schools, but we're going to take their funds away. I can't imagine that a school that allows individual education doesn't pay attention to a student in so-called consultations. So that is another reason for which I think we should continue to discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we go any further, I have two factual points here. It is Mr Beznoska and Mrs Putnová. Before that, I'll read the note that came to me. Today, between 15 and 17 o'clock, Mr Karel Rais apologizes for the hearing. From 10 to 13, Mr. Michal Kučera is sorry for the doctor's visit. Furthermore, for health reasons, Mr Pavel Šrámek apologizes until 11:00 today. And today, Mr Karel Pražák, Mr Karel Pražák, apologizes from 10 to 13 o'clock. Now, then, Mr Beznoska, with his point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For a very short time, I would like to respond to my colleague Kořenko. He was present at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, where we discussed the provisions of Section 16 very intensively and consistently. I, too, as the history director of the school, quite understand his explanation. Nevertheless, I think that the greater danger to this amendment is to preserve § 16 there. That is why I would like us to support its abolition. That's the first point. The second point concerns the possibility of individual education in the second grade of primary school. I take this for granted from my teaching practice and as a Member, regardless of the fact that it is also in the draft school committee that he will normally test home education or individual education at the output of the Czech School Inspection. So from my point of view, it is right that the individual learning path is possible at both levels of basic education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I shall now ask Mrs Anna Putnová, with her factual comment. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u16	Good morning again. It will not allow me to comment on Mr Kořenko's speech and comment. I think that an opinion on whether we should allow individual education at second level is a matter based on internal conviction. Those of us who are confident that parents are responsible for the education of children should also give them appropriate tools and opportunities to apply this conviction. And on specific matters, I want to say that the pilots have been going on long enough. We've already measured, we've already made the pilots. And what Mr Kořenek is proposing to discuss is a single sentence: delay is the beginning of failure. If you don't want an individual education at second grade, then say so, and there's no point in hiding behind us for piloting what was piloted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u17	Thank you, Madame. I note another factual remark made by Mr Kořenko. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u18	Thank you. I don't know what to say. I think I said everything I had to say. And I say again. In practice, school directors will face the problem. The school head represents the institution and can only do what is permitted by law or regulation. So if we have high-quality legal regulations and we have things to finish, then I don't think that's a problem. But at this point, it's not solved. I don't want to go back into practice and deal with what I've done to myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u19	Thank you. I don't make any further factual comments. In that case, Mr Svoboda is duly enrolled in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u20	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the already discussed content of the bill, namely point 5 of Section 16a. That's a very dangerous paragraph. My colleague Kořenek, here in his argument, spoke twice very differently. If he was referring to § 16a, he suggested that space be extended without any legal justification. On the contrary, as regards individual education, it calls for a legal justification to be absolutely clear and defined. Section 16a contains a number of problems. In fact, we are doing this regulation of the school law, which, by the way, is very good and beneficial, also to reduce the percentage of children who are excluded from mainstream education because the number of children in our country was definitely significantly higher than the standard. And even, in my opinion, significantly higher than the need for individual education at all. If I am to define this very simply, a number of Romani children have been eliminated from the mainstream of education under the image of some vague health reasons. At this point, we are putting a paragraph on the table, which will restore the possibility of vague decision making and limit the possibilities of what is justified. [[10.20 hours]] In fact, the health of a child can only be assessed in accordance with the international classification of diseases that apply today in its tenth version, because there is a clear definition of which particular disease has a concept. Section 16a introduces the concept of mental disability. The concept of mental disability does not exist. It's not defined anywhere. From my point of view, it's a certain defensive designation of the pupil who doesn't have any specific defined unit against each other. Psychiatry and international classification of patients know the term mental retardation. Mental retardation, of course, can only be defined by a psychiatrist, and it means a completely clear gnozeological medical unit, which may depend on the child's treatment and may have no relation to whether it can be included in the mainstream or not. When we realize that this defined mental disability may mean that a child with a high IQ will be eliminated from the mainstream, we must then wonder if we want to have some Toulouse-Lautrek in this country, because of course, the disability does not have to say anything about how a child is able to achieve the necessary education in some narrow area. This paragraph allows us to start eliminating children again according to vague, unclear criteria. I am convinced that everyone has to do what he can do, what he is educated for, and what he is authorized to do. Psychiatrists and clinic psychologists have the right to assess the condition of a child in the area of psychiatry. Working with the concepts that the counselling facility ensures that the documentation for the outcomes of the counselling assistance is provided in accordance with the principles of medical science - what mechanism will the psychologist assess whether this was done in connection with current knowledge of medical science? That really is a very vague concept that the psychologist can't even do. It's just because he doesn't even have the education to do it, and there are no criteria. For all these reasons, I would very much advocate that this paragraph, which introduces unclear concepts and clearly creates a new group of children, which will be eliminated from the mainstream without justification. I will also apply to this in detail reading and submit a proposal which is already in place in the system under number 1848. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Pecková is also enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Basic education is at the beginning of a journey that ends with application on the labour market. The higher the degree follows it, the higher the chances of this application. People who, for various reasons, have failed to complete their basic education are burdened with this disability for a lifetime, for example, in calculating their pension. Many of them are thus essentially permanently dependent on social benefits. The completed basic education is also subject to retraining courses. For example, in Prague 3, where I live, the Buči civic retraining association works wonderfully and it records a year 2,800 requests to participate in these courses. But 90 percent of applicants do not have completed primary education. They themselves are currently providing certain courses of Czech language, mathematics and foreign language, but the situation of applicants is not addressed because this civic association obviously has no accreditation to issue the necessary certificates at the end of these courses. This is addressed only by courses for supplementing basic education, which can be organised by the Regional Authority under Section 55 of the Education Act. Although there are basically plus or minus 500 000 members of national minorities living in our Republic, 85 percent of which do not have completed basic education, courses for supplementing it are set up rather exceptionally. The law does not specify whether the courses are to take the form of a presentation or a distance study or whether they are to take place at primary or secondary schools. The real chance to finish the course properly, however, basically has only the course in the form of a distance study. Because if the frequentant has already gained any employment in the labour market, he cannot afford to be repeatedly absent from the job. However, the long-distance form of study is quite unique in the Czech Republic, so that interested parties often have to commute to another region and spend money on transport that they no longer receive. Approximately 20 percent of this is also the reason why this course will be terminated prematurely. Application to the labour market is a condition not only of economic independence but also of the prevention of sociopathological phenomena such as social exclusion, xenophobia, crime, drug addiction, alcohol or gambling. I would therefore like to put forward an amendment which aims to ensure these courses in all regions of the Czech Republic to supplement basic education in a remote form. [[There's a noise going on in the O.R.]] I also consider it very useful that awareness of their actions should be sufficient, mediated, for example, by the Labour Office or by institutions dealing with the issue in the region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u23	I'm sorry, Madam. I'm gonna ask my colleagues in the right side of the hall not to sound, because it's really hard to understand what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u24	Thank you, too. I am just finishing, and I would just add that I will sign up for this amendment, which is in the system under number 1811, in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u25	Thank you, Madame. The next party to the debate is Mr Fiedler. Mrs Berdychová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to present an amendment which is recorded in the system, which, of course, I will then apply to in a detailed debate. It's 1422 House press. [[document]] It concerns a thing that is more or less realized in practice in our country, but is not based on the law. My amendment is based on a practical debate and a practical discussion with a number of directors of technical schools, and it concerns the promotion of this technical education. On the one hand, we have 500 or 600,000 unemployed, and on the other hand, in a completely paradoxical way, employers, industrial enterprises, are having trouble getting qualified labour into workers' professions, which is an absolutely absurd situation. [[10.30 hours]] This simple amendment seeks to address or help solve this problem by giving it, as we have done in the past, the older ones remember it, the used ones, the opportunity to make a legally founded contract between the firm, the undertaking that obliges the student or student to study, to support him in this study, to give him the resources, to raise him for his work then at his firm, and then the student will be obliged to return the funds to him by employing him. Nothing more, however. This is not about the school director mentioned in the amendment having some kind of intermediary status. It simply has to be mentioned because the school is an intermediary and it has to mediate this contractual relationship between students and companies. It actually works like a contact point. This amendment gives a legal framework for this. As I found out from the debate with a number of industry directors and workers, I also discussed this with the Confederation of Industry, and this amendment has support from this side. I would therefore like to call on you to support this amendment after the third reading. It is nothing more than that businesses have the legal possibility of concluding a contract with students, supporting them during their studies, and then making a contract with them so that the student who draws their funds is obliged to do so. The current wording of the amended Civil Code also supports this. This does not mean any impact on the state budget, because employers, companies, these funds are willing to invest themselves in their own will, out of their own resources, so that does not mean any impact on the state budget. I think that this amendment, because it is absolutely not a policy, but a pragmatic solution or a contribution, a small contribution to dealing with high unemployment in our country and paradoxically a lack of labour on the other hand, will help in a very simple way. Thank you for your further support, if any.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now I will ask Mrs Berdychová for her contribution to the debate and Mr Holeček will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u28	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I became acquainted with the amendment to the Education Act last June, when I failed to enforce support for deaf children during the discussion of the law on teaching workers, namely the inclusion of a new category of pedagogical worker - an interpreter of the Czech Sign Language. In discussing this law, the Minister promised that the deaf will help resolve the issue within the framework of the amendment to the Education Act, and so the Ministry has fulfilled and in cooperation with ASNEP, which is an association covering the organizations of deaf and hearing people, and with the Ministry's legislation, so we are preparing changes in the amendment to the School Act in Section 16, which is currently dealing with support for children with specific educational needs. It was not enough to incorporate it into the upcoming amendment, so an amendment was prepared. Since September I have been present with several meetings, round tables of the professional public, non-profit organizations, which discussed the places of dispute in Section 16 and also § 16a. The outcome of the discussion is my amendments in Section 16, which are in line with the position of the Ministry, but also changes in Section 16a of the already mentioned paragraph. 5 which, on the contrary, became a very controversial place. I have therefore divided the proposed parliamentary proposal into two parts. In the first, I can say non-conflict parts, the agreed amendments to Section 16 are addressed, namely that among the support measures are complementary services of experts who are an essential condition of successful education of pupils who use the communication system of deaf and deaf people. Furthermore, another teacher in the class was added to the support measures. This measure is intended, in particular, for class teams in which there are more pupils with severe disabilities. On the contrary, classification in a special school is excluded from the proposal for support measures. Being assigned to a special school is not in itself a support measure, it is only one of the possible forms of education. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, the Newly, support measures, which are divided into five stages, can be combined. In this way, the pupil may not gradually pass the level of measures from one to five, but the support is chosen to meet the degree of seriousness of the education needs of the child. The children may also be granted measures in varying intensity, such as less aid to the assistant, more adjustments to the content of education. The pupil thus gets support so called. tailor-made to your needs. Two new paragraphs are added to address support for children deaf and for children with alternative and augmentative means of communication. The deaf children are given training support in their native language, i.e. sign language, and it is also guaranteed that the translator of the Czech sign language will be professionally qualified. Furthermore, the need for children with the most severe health disabilities is adapted so that the inclusion of these children in a special school does not have to prevent the exhaustion of support measures in a normal school. These are the amendments proposed in Section 16, which are also duplicated in Mrs Bohdalová's amendment, only mine is a little wider by one paragraph. And now the second part of my amendment, which deals with the abolition of paragraph 2. 5 in Section 16a, both sentences. The first sentence, which states that if the assistance of a school advisory facility depends on the health assessment of a child, pupil or student, the educational and advisory facilities shall ensure that the supporting documents for the outcomes of the advisory assistance are provided in accordance with the principles of medical science, is merely an empty declaration and is completely unnecessary because the assessment of the health status is covered by the Health Services Act, the Non-medical Health Occupations Act. The second sentence aims to ensure that children who come from a socially or culturally disadvantaged environment are not considered to be mild mental disability, such as those who do not belong there, are not regarded as children who come from a socially or culturally disadvantaged environment, so that they have equal access to education. That was the intention of the Ministry for this wording in the law. On the contrary, the professional public sees the effect quite the opposite in this provision, as has already been mentioned before me by Mr Svoboda, that, on the contrary, more children will be placed in practical schools, including children without slight mental disability. Based on discussions with the professional public, seminars, round tables, discussions in committees, which raised a number of concerns about the various interpretations of this provision, concerns that the wording will bring more clarity in practice and, on the contrary, the original intention of the Ministry will be completely opposite, I present this amendment to delete both sentences, i.e. the whole of paragraph 5 of Section 16a. The introduction of a new diagnostic of the Mental Disability Method DSM-5, which is intended for psychiatrists and is not yet a valid diagnostic tool, was also questioned in the discussions with the professional public. The advice facility is given an impossible condition to supervise the procedure of doctors in assessing the health status of children. However, from 2009 to 2013, the number of children diagnosed with mild mental disability decreased by a whole third. The Czech Republic is reaching the European average of such diagnosed children. Diagnosis therefore does not need to be changed at the moment. On the contrary, there is a need to strengthen staff-school counselling facilities, ensure early diagnosis of children, unite methodological management meetings, and target funding for the direct support of children, and not for the introduction of new diagnostics. [[10.40 hours]] Release of both sentences from the whole of paragraph 5 in Section 16a recommends the Czech Professional Society for Inclusive Education, Public Protector of Rights, People in Need, Psychiatrists' representatives, Society for Support of Mental Disabilities, Association of Consultant Psychologists, Association of Workers of Special Consultative Centres of the Czech Republic, Association of Special Teachers, other organizations such as LUMOS, EDUin, ASNEP, National Council for Disabilities represented by Mr Krása, as well as Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Deputy Minister for Human Rights. This shows that there is no harmony between ministries. I therefore submit this amendment and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u29	Thank you, Madame. The amendment then needs to be read in a detailed debate. I note here one point of fact, which Mr Kořenek has. After that, Mr Radim Holeček will be prepared for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u30	I'm just gonna take one comment. I want to adjust the inaccuracies a little bit. There was no information that the DSM-5 diagnostic tool should be changed. It's a tool that's used in America that's meant for America. Neither the European Union nor the Czech Republic can use this instrument. The only information that has fallen in this context is that this tool takes into account, i.e. the DSM-5, the environmental impact. It's like information. But with us, the MKN-10 pays, and that's how it goes. Basically DSM-5 is not a diagnostic tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u31	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Radim Holeček and Mrs Nina Nováková are registered after him. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u32	Mr President, the rest of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pause briefly or explain why I do not agree with the register of pedagogical workers, especially from the position of privacy. Of course, I understand that the state, in turn, needs to know the data and know what kind of teacher specialization is demand, know the availability of human resources in education, etc., as my colleague Kořenek said well here. But to address this issue by creating a register that will bring together data on sensitive personal data of pedagogical workers, whether anonymous or pseudo-anonymised, I consider it unjustified. As a fundamental problem, I see, for example, the association of data on sex and the age of a teaching worker, mainly because the request for such data is clearly discriminatory in the case of applying for any employment from the point of view of labour law. The proposal also envisages bringing together data on educational attainment and ongoing education, the scope and content of the pedagogical worker's activity or the duration of his employment relationship. But that's all personal data. At present, when most of the job offers and demands are made using various web servers, I am convinced that MŠMT can obtain similar and necessary statistical data, or at least a significant part of them, by systematically collecting data from these advertisements, for example, and much easier to find out what aprobation of pedagogical workers is of interest in the labour market. If there is a potential danger of possibly leaking personal data of pedagogical staff from the relevant register, and this danger exists for each such registry, I think it is appropriate to consider very carefully whether the necessary statistical data is not available in a way that would not expose pedagogical workers to the risk of leaking their sensitive personal data. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u33	I thank you and ask Mrs Nina Nováková. Mrs Marta Semelová will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I can imagine and justify the amendment that I have already put into the system, allow me to make a brief remark. The negotiations on the amendment to the School Act, in addition to showing certain signs that each of us shows the basis for the education and education of the new generation, show one very unpleasant thing for me, and that is general distrust, and that is the distrust of the individual social groups towards each other and of distrust of the individual professions. When it comes to individual education, there is clear distrust of the state towards parents, as if we did not trust them that it is they who are most concerned about how their children will succeed in the future. There is yet another distrust in the subtext, and that is that in individual education, people who may have an alternative view of life in this society might be able to get together in intensive contacts. More evidence of mistrust. When we talk about Section 16, particularly 16a, and then our debates have narrowed down to just one paragraph, there is, in turn, a lack of confidence. We're still assuming someone's gonna take advantage of something. What was the last expression of distrust is two professions, psychiatrists and clinic psychologists working in school counseling facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, why is he more of a psychiatrist than a clinical psychologist or a qualified trainee in a school advisory facility when it is not a child's disease when it comes to specifying the method of support measures? Now, allow me to defend myself to my amendment. It's about school councils. Even at a time when our society was trying to democratize its life, that is, in the early 1990s, the possibility of setting up a school board was created within the framework of Act No. 564, where it was the state administration and self-government. I would like to point out that the school board could have set up a founder, but it could also be proposed by a large part of the parents or legal representatives of the school or by educators. So from the beginning... [[The Member has quieted down and looks at a group of Members who are having a loud laugh in the hall.]] From the beginning, there has been an effort to create some space, some environment where they can associate a founder who represents citizens, communities where there is a school so that parents, educators and elderly pupils can meet. That is certainly a very commendable idea and purpose. However, I stress that the establishment of a school board was voluntary in the early 1990s. Then, when the establishment of the school board was enacted in 2004, many schools and many looked at it a little clueless, and many of us who were in the school system at the time thought that it was actually an institution of some kind. In fact, he - and this remains in the amendment to the School Act - has essentially great opportunities for this body to speak into the course of the school. I would just like to point out - the school board approves the annual report on the school's activities, approves the school's rules, that is to say, an internal regulation which should, in principle, be attended by those who then have to follow it, and the school rules must therefore follow the school's management, educators and pupils. Furthermore, the school board approves the rules for evaluating pupils, which means that it can intervene in the school system only by recommending, for example, the school director not to give the evaluation by means of stamps, but recommends, for example, a verbal evaluation, etc. So it can interfere with the school's work a lot. [[10.50 hours]] The school board comments on the proposals of the school education programme, which is basically a document of each school and a key document. He's discussing the draft budget, yes. He discusses the inspection report of the Czech School Inspectorate and can, of course, submit suggestions and proposals for bankruptcy. So when we start thinking about the school board so that we don't think about how people behave in the Czech Republic very often, and that's something else is on paper, and then something else is in practice, or what is de iure, should also take place de facto, the school board has really great powers and can help the school. But there must really be people who are competent. I took the liberty, even before I finally put an amendment into the system, to hold a round table with the representatives of the founders, there were representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, but there were also representatives of the elementary school associations and there were people from practice, there were parents. We talked about the fact that if the school board fulfilled the idea that is introduced into the legal standard, it could really be positive in many ways. But it has to start somewhere to make the fact that it will fulfill what de iure can be qualified. Therefore, I dare to start where it is necessary from my point of view: The founder is setting up a school, so he should have an idea of what the school should do for his community, for the community where he works, for the city, for the community where he works. And what more should be discussed, in a way communityally within a community or a city, as should our school, which we have in our city, because that school is something that every city or community should be proud of. And here is exactly the space where in the debate with the whole community in which the school is, the founder could essentially generate his idea of the school that the school is supposed to be fulfilling his idea. Another thing is how the school evaluates the Czech School Inspection. Of course, there are criteria quite clearly given and every teacher, every director knows what to meet. But now we have another-- the founder. And we already have - at present we have in the law that the founder, if he wants to evaluate the work of the school, should evaluate it according to criteria which he published in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, many founders have no criteria yet. So that's the point that we really have to start with. And my amendment is one thing. In Section 12 - I will then read it - in Section 12, it is that the founder, when he wants to set up a school, puts funds there, and the school is supposed to represent it, so he has to make it clear what he thinks the school should look like, and he has to publish the criteria. Then the broad competence of the school board, which can be one of the things - apart from what I have just named - can be proposed, but in the amendment to the law in the six-year period, it may propose filing bankruptcy proceedings, or essentially give impetus to the possible exchange of the director. But this school board, so that it can do what the law allows it to do, should get to know the criteria of the founder in advance, because the school board is setting up a founder. And I am not talking about the fact that the school board at the moment of its election - ladies and gentlemen, there are only three people in the school board, or the most common is that there are six people there, which is very few - two for founders, two for parents and two for educators. Or one for the founder, one for the educators, one for the parents in the case of primary schools. And the school board is not at all linked to the pupil's self-government, which is in most schools. There's a pupil's parliament, we have a student parliament, we have a Union of Parents, where parents naturally come together from all classes of the school. And the school board doesn't have a duty to look back on what the people it represents actually think. But since it is the institution that establishes the founder, the minimum that should be fulfilled is that the school board evaluates the work of the director according to criteria published in advance by the founder. We can also discuss the fact that the school board should have the right to propose the filing of bankruptcy proceedings beyond that period of six years and throughout the entire term of office of the Director. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u35	Thank you, Madame. I will ask Mrs Marta Semelová for her contribution to the debate. Mr. Mr. Zlatuška will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u36	Hello, esteemed colleagues. I would like to comment on two issues relating to the Education Act, which are preparatory classes and individual education, which should be extended to the second level of primary schools. As far as the preparatory classes are concerned, I will then apply to my amendment, which is under number 1599, and I would now briefly justify it. Preschool education is of great importance for the development of a child at an age where the foundations of his personality are formed and the basic prerequisites for further education are also formed. In addition, the kindergarten also performs the function of educational and social. Therefore, the development of a child should, of course, take place in a kindergarten under the guidance of teachers who are qualified for this age period and its specifics. In addition, they meet the needs of pre-school education as well as premises and their facilities, including hygiene and, of course, equipment and equipment at all. With regard to preparatory classes in primary schools, I see their establishment as a necessity to address the lack of capacity of kindergartens as a result of their previous massive and senseless interference. They should be intended for children with a social disadvantage, or with a delay in schooling, so that they can successfully complete the follow-up to the first grade of primary school. However, in the case of a sufficient number of places in kindergartens, they and not primary schools should also perform this role. On the other hand, I acknowledge that it is always better for the child to have his pre-school preparation carried out in the preparatory class of the primary school than if it had passed a mere babysitting service in the children's group. However, in no way can I agree with the proposal of the Ministry of Education to extend the range of those who can establish the preparatory classes of primary schools, the schools of ecclesiastical and religious societies. The guarantee for pre-school education should be the state together with the regions and municipalities. In addition, the possibility of increasing the capacity of kindergartens is currently extended by higher financial support from municipalities from the state budget, national fund or European funds. In addition, demographic developments indicate that the number of children in kindergartens will be reduced in future years. I consider the expansion of the circle of those who can establish preparatory classes to be completely unnecessary. Therefore, I propose that this paragraph should remain in the present text, which means that the authority to establish a preparatory class should be a municipality, a union of municipalities or a region. I propose removing the churches and religious societies from paragraph 47 (1). So much for my proposal on pre-school pre-schools. Now, to the much discussed amendment tabled by some colleagues, that is to say, extending home, namely individual education to the second grade of primary school. I spoke about this issue during the first reading, when I pointed out that the primary school, apart from providing education, is, of course, basic, also carrying out other tasks. [[11.00 hours]] Overall, they could be referred to as preparation for life. Among other things, social literacy falls here, which means the art of living with others, respecting and tolerable their diversity and differences, getting along with people of different nature and opinion. Human solidarity, mutual respect and respect are so much needed here. Raising it to help each other. It also includes developing the ability of teamwork. Changing and taking different roles in the collective, healthy self-confidence and humility, but also learning to solve problems together, discuss, defend your own opinion and accept the arguments of others, overcome obstacles, but also stick together and pull together and at the same time, if necessary, be able to say no. Without meaning, there is no experience of shared experiences at school events, trips, excursions, schools in nature. That's what kids excluded from school are losing. On the one hand, individual educationists paradoxically hoist loudly for integration, virtually. The inclusion of pupils with different kinds and degrees of disability, simply for their inclusion in normal classes, on the other hand, propose the possibility and extension of the exclusion of pupils from the school environment into home education just because some parents want it. I do not think it would be in the interest of the child, and I cannot agree with the argument that hours spent with my peers in school can simply be replaced by participation in interest activities for the acquisition of social literacy. The baby can't be in the greenhouse all the time. One day he'll find himself in everyday life, and he should be ready for it. Nor should we forget the importance of everyday schooling in connection with the protection of its healthy development and security. There is no way I want to suspect parents who currently educate their children at home, that they are hurting them, or that they want to harm their healthy development. However, it is not possible to hide your eyes from the fact that there are cases of neglect and abuse of children, but also the possibility that they can get under the influence of various religious sections. This is where school and educator play an important role in early detection of risk phenomena. Other arguments that prove to the detriment of individual, i.e. home education, are the environment in which the pupil is educated. It is hard to replace the home's spatial and material equipment of the primary school, chemical and physical laboratories where pupils perform experiments, biological and other professional study rooms, language auditoriums, gymnasiums, music halls, art offices, but also interactive boards. The annual report of the Czech School Inspectorate for 2013/2014 shows that ensuring adequate spatial and material conditions is one of the basic prerequisites of schools for basic education. From the funds obtained from various projects, 86 percent of the schools visited by the Czech School Inspection were equipped with modern technologies, more and more teachers commonly use data projection for presentation and visual display of the course, they include interactive tasks or create web applications for students. Good equipment of Czech schools also shows findings from international investigations of PISA and TIMSS. Finally, I cannot mention the fact that by extending individual education to the second grade of primary school, which is the subject of some amendments, there is a complete degradation of the teaching profession, which we have discussed in such a turbulent way during the discussion of the law on teaching workers. I am surprised that it is those Members who have advocated an unconditionally appropriate qualification in all schools without exceptions that today, with the same vehemence, promote the education of pupils by parents who do not meet these requirements for qualifications and citizenship. The proposal thus undermines equality of access to education, whether it is the possibility of using modern school equipment or who teaches and with what expertise the pupil teaches. Whether a parent with no proper education or qualified for this subject or the subject has an application. This means teachers who have completed at least a Master's degree at the Faculty of Education or other universities preparing teachers. And I remind you, that's not the end of their studies. They continue to participate in various forms of continuing education throughout their pedagogical activities. Teachers not only know their field, virtually. a subject that teaches but also didactics, methodology and psychology of a child of a given age. They have special pedagogy training, which is very important because there is a considerable number of dyslexics, dysgraphists, dysorthographers, dyskalculics and pupils with other specific learning and behavioral disorders in the population. Do parents need this knowledge to educate their children? Pedagogists include in teaching various methods and forms of work. Group teaching, activating methods, teamwork, which is an important competence for life, problems. All this with respect to the individual needs of pupils. In this way, I cannot agree with Mrs Jermanová's argument that domestic education is more effective than school education. This claim is not based on any relevant research or knowledge of real experts. As far as Mrs Putnová's statement is concerned that the Education Committee has shown a considerable agreement on individual education on its enlargement, I must say that the proposal to extend individual education to the second grade of primary school has been passed by one single vote, which perhaps the Member does not know because she has not been there. The KSČM club disagrees with individual education for the reasons I have mentioned here. Unique cases where a student for reasons of health or because he is long-term with his parents abroad are already treated today and there is no need to expand individual education. Therefore, the proposal to extend it to the second stage will not support the club KSČM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u37	Thank you, Madame. I'm recording two factual points. First, Mrs Nina Nováková and then Mrs Anna Putnová. So, Madame, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very briefly. I was just talking about obvious mistrust. We have heard it again today in this post. There was a distrust of church schools or private schools that they would be worthy to influence the child the first year before entering compulsory school attendance. And then the words got stronger. Those individual groups could include children who are needed under the influence of a religious group. What right is a church school called the one that is not supposed to give the state confidence? We've even heard the expression here that it's risky. To me, ladies and gentlemen, there are many of us born before, it reminded me that the risky behavior of children when they are under the influence of some religious belief is the same as we have heard before, religion is the opium of mankind. Many of us know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u39	Thank you, Madame. I will ask Mrs Putnová with another factual remark and then Mr Zlatuška is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u40	Thank you for the floor. I felt really motivated, so I have no choice but to respond to some of the sentences that have been said here. First of all, if we are talking about individual education, we are talking about the basic idea of who is responsible for the education of our children. I understand quite the position of members of the Communist Party that they believe that the State is responsible for education and that it should have all the appropriate instruments, whether controlling or restrictive. [[11.10 hours]] I fundamentally disagree with this view and insist on my opinion that they are parents and that an environment should be created for them so that they can make decisions about their children. This is the basic idea clash, and I think that a coalition that is defined as center, center-left, sometimes center-right, should be aware that this is the case. Here we decide whether we will consider the state to be the highest authority in education in the future or whether we will consider parents to be the ones who will decide on their children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u41	I thank you, and before I give you another word, for the record, I will make one apology. This morning it was read that today Mr Daniel Korte apologized. After the debate with him, Mr Daniel Korte is present today and apologizes tomorrow at 13:00 for work reasons. So much for order and I will now ask Mr Zlatuška for his contribution to the debate and then Mrs Anna Putnová is signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the amendment to the School Act is quite long because the committee itself failed to reach a satisfactory consensus, the majority was not such as to call it consensus. And there is also an opinion, a recommendation from the Social Committee. I am clearly leaning towards what Mrs Berdychová has already said in detail in quite qualified terms. It provided specific reasons why the problematic provisions of Section 16a should be deleted. It also introduced a number of supporting professional and social groups. In the meeting that was on the committee around this, I would characterize the dispute as a dispute in which several groups are standing, several interest groups. One of them is psychiatrists, along with psychologists, there are clinicians or counselors, and there are special educators. Unfortunately, in this factual dispute, which was to be considered primarily by dialogue and by some kind of terminology refinement of what this is about, the petitioner leaned only on one of those groups and the rest decided to ignore them, disregarding them, even though in the provision, the actual text of the amendment, there is a reference to the parameters which are medically speaking, as Mr Svoboda quite rightly noted here. The medical assessment, despite the general declaratory level in the law, is entrusted to non-medical professionals with all the secondary consequences it has, the conflict with laws that determine how the medical profession is performed and what responsibility is there, and the collision with responsibility for such an assessment here. So the other dispute that's there is the dispute between doctors and non-doctors. If I wanted to characterize, in today's form, how proposed by the Ministry of the provision of the law is there, and in a position where it concerns the issue of psychiatric, medical versus psychological or advisory, the Ministry elects a declaratory provision that says: we will do it professionally - but it puts it in the hands of non-professionals. It would be like describing the safety of a nuclear power plant. We would put it into the regulation that would govern it, that it is governed by science and technology, especially nuclear physics and similar disciplines, and by the same law we would entrust implementation as an interest activity of children in kindergartens playing in the sandbox. This is an extreme representation, but this is how I understand the problem as it stands. On the committee itself, Dr. Matys pointed out that the provision, as it is written today, merely obscures the real situation in the DM judgment and is actually there to bypass the real situation against those subsequent judicial proceedings that may affect the Czech Republic in the future. I consider it important to mention this here, because if we accept the idea that we can deal with this judgment so that we do not evolutionaryly move towards reducing the shares of those children - again, Mrs Berdychová has already said the specific figures here, I will not repeat them - so if we do this, on the contrary, we can make the situation of the Czech Republic worse with regard to the international authorities that have criticised us in the past. This also has to do with what measures are being practically implemented around here and what is being used here by this cover of, let's say, science, the expertise that is being put into the law there in this way. Mr Kořenek mentioned here that it is unnecessary to discuss the DSM-5 manual, because it is a manual that is not applicable in our country, only for the United States, and that no one here mentioned such a manual. Well, the law itself does not mention the manual, but it was mentioned on the round table right in the opening appearance in the round table, which the Ministry of Education organized on 8 December 2014, by the way, the round table, which was organized between the two meetings of the Education Committee, which was aimed at clarifying opinions. However, we received the minutes from the roundtable the day before the subcommittee meeting, and only the participants of the roundtable received it, so unfortunately, the Ministry of Education here missed the opportunity to contribute to a greater consensus. But this is one place where the DSM-5 manual was mentioned. The second place where it was mentioned was the presentation of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to implement the action plan, which took place on 20 March 2014. It was a report on the implementation of diagnostic changes and there it is said on the first page of the presentation: "Diagnostics as a tool for supporting children from a culturally different and socioculturally disadvantaged environment. Experts in Europe and the United States agree that the role of intelligent tests in determining the success rate of pupils from a culturally different and socially disadvantaged environment is in retreat. The tests themselves cannot capture other important indicators for school success and socialization of these pupils." And the third indent: "The East will become DSM-5, which allows the extension of procedures for further quality and skills of the pupil important for his education." [[The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disordes]] [[11.20 hours]] So this is the official position given by the Czech Republic through the Ministry of Education to the European institutions. And it is not true what Mr Kořenek said about the DSM-5 manual. On the contrary. It works with him and works with him as the basis for other projects. By the way, it's a little nutty for stenographers - it's "tests themselves can't do" it's soft even at the end. Probably when you rewrite it, you'd write it hard. But that too is the level that is unfortunately being worked on in this area. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the serious problem of why such confusion and discrepancy arise here in the way this matter is actually being dealt with here can simply be those projects that are being implemented under the pretext of improving testing. Mrs Berdychová has, again, been very precise in character. We don't need any more money for projects, we need to invest in children. We need to invest in specific support measures, and we need the Ministry of Education to work within what is lege artis, within what is also taught as a standard part of teaching all psychiatrists or psychologists, to unite parameters. No other provision is needed for this. What may be needed is to justify the various expenditures for other projects such as the project of an effective guidance system in education, which are typically organised to the extent of hundreds of millions of crowns and do not produce practically the results declared in them, or produce the results that counseling centres then have to buy and do not have the means to buy it. If I could just name the names: RAMPS, VIP, DIS, SPIV, CPIV. These are all past projects, which at the moment you calculate the sums that went into them, so they are close to one billion crowns, and this is mostly about the fact that it is work for quite specific interested people who are paid from these projects and which we then find as participants in the various expressive procedures organized by the Ministry of Education. I don't know if the Department of Education knows or doesn't know about this, or if it's just a coincidence, but it's true. When she was on the school committee around this debate - I will only help myself with a small quote from Dr Zapletalová from this meeting: "Another project from this RŠPP was in 2008 until summer 2011 with the fact that I was dismissed by Minister Dobeš on 30 April 2011. Psychologists did not have a project in time that was stopped by Minister Dobeš - the RAMPS project, which, as Mr Zlatuška mentioned here, was worth CZK 250 million, so it was a project in which not one diagnostic tool was bought. I'm sure you can prove it. The project was run by Dr. Mertin for two years. And then, because there were just some problems, I started to deal with the project by handing over everything that was in the project properly. The tools weren't bought at all." The project will start for CZK 250 million, quarter of a billion. The project crashes on the fact that the minister assigns it to an ad hoc investigator. I stress, he's not the current minister, there's talk of Minister Dobeš. Then it turns out that the new investigator here isn't capable of doing this. But it goes on, even though the outputs are not really from such large projects, they are not of such a kind as to be shown specifically in the care of children, where the funds were to be directed as a priority and where they are needed. So I would point this out in a significant way in what Mrs Berdychová said. We stress the funding to focus on support measures, so that the advisory centres really have the opportunity to carry out the relevant consultancy activities and not stop thinking that they don't have the resources to buy commercial tests here. We do not need new projects for which, in this way, there is a secondary introduction of a kind of justification at the moment when the effectiveness of the costs incurred is assessed. Of the other things mentioned here, a minor comment on the register of teaching staff. I am a professional informatic, so at the moment I see such a massive distributed database, which will not be directly interested in individual school directors, but only the central ministry, plus there are anonymous data, I do not believe that it will be filled with data that would somehow be credible. It's a good way to spend money, but it would be more efficient to do only registering needs, or registering unqualified workers, virtually. registering those specializations that are lacking in schools, not multiplying the State's record of all teachers. And for home education - Mrs Semelová had a long interpretation here - but for home education it is essential for me that the expert opinion was a recommendation for vocational education to be extended from first to second degree. And the second fact, which is very important, is that it concerns fewer than one million pupils who learn in schools. Less than one promile! In these numbers, it is not reasonable to assume that a testimonial study can be done, which will have God knows the value of the testimonial. This is really just about respecting the will of the parents of a negligible number of children. I will count children who will be much smaller than the natural occurrence of some deranged people who have affected them more during their entire lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have three factual points here, four already. The first is the Minister, Mr Kořenek, Mr Svoboda and Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u44	Thank you for the floor. I will take the liberty of reacting because Mr. Zlatuška' performance was full of untruths. I would like to respond at least to those of them relating to the law, because, as Mr Zlatuška's custom is good, he often comments in his speeches on matters that are not related to the law at all. It is not true, and I would like to object to what Mr Zlatuška said here that the petitioner ignored one group during the debate. The debate here was so broad, it took so long for us to even allow the committee to take part in this debate. And all the MPs were invited to the round, round table he mentioned, so they could attend. They didn't have to wait for the minutes. As far as the discussion on the committee is concerned, I would like to inform other Members who were not present that, in the context of Section 16, one sentence was discussed - one sentence - three hours. And that the committee has not come to a consensus, so I think it is also to a large extent influenced by the way this committee is managed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u45	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kořenek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u46	Thank you. I will only take the liberty of responding to what has been said here in the words of the President. First of all, I would like to turn against the fact that the RAMPS and VIP projects were not useful. Ask those directors who built up school counseling facilities, ask those people who really needed help, and they got help from these projects. And I ask that the House's soil be not used to degenerate people who have done something for education and just don't talk about it. I'm Mrs. Zapletalová, although I've seen her three times in my life, very much because she's a person who knows something about education and has actually done something for him. As far as DSM-5 is concerned, I'll just say it. Quotes from other sources are quite common. I think that scientists are clearly using the knowledge they have acquired in foreign literature, inspiring and pointing out that there is such a thing. I don't see it any other way. As regards Law No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services, I would like to point out that this law is intended for a well-defined range of entities defined in this law, i.e. We're ruling out school counseling facilities. So school counseling facilities are subject to a little different regulations and it has been pointed out here that there is no difference between a school psychologist and a clinical psychologist. I also pointed out that clinic psychologists have a far wider range of activities than psychologists pedagogical ones and, of course, basically a child's examination takes longer time. As for the committee that was mentioned and the ambiguous adoption of the resolution, I would just like to point out, for the sake of completeness and overall, that of the 21 members of the committee, 15 were present and 11 and 4 abstained in favour of the resolution. So this is not an ambiguous decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u47	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Svoboda, followed by Mr Gabal and then by Mr Zlatuška. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u48	Thank you. I would just like to support in substance the arguments, my arguments, which Mr Zlatuška said here. I have at my disposal material sent by AGPP, which is an organisation representing the professional interests of pedagogical and psychological councils, where - I quote: "In this context, it is the duty of every pedagogical-psychological counseling to evaluate the validity of expert opinions issued." [[With an emphasis on words to evaluate legitimacy.]] And the last sentence is: "We assume that all pedagogical-psychological counseling will proceed like this." Thus, pedagogical-psychological counseling evaluates the validity of the psychiatric expert opinion without any further comment. Here we leave the fact that an expert opinion can only be refuted by another expert opinion, virtually. It must be a filing that is likely to be dealt with by the court. Here they will deal with pedagogical psychology counseling without any boundaries and without any qualifications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u49	Thank you. I'll read two tickets before I give another word. Today the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok and Mr Bohuslav Chalupa apologizes from 11.15 to 19.00 for reasons of work - he initially apologized from 9.30 to 12.30, shortened it to 10.15. And now, with another factual remark, Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues. I do not want to delay, but because we have been acting for a long time, I wanted to ask my colleague Zlatuška if I had heard correctly that one billion crowns had gone into diagnostic research in such numbers of poorly eliminated children. Could you please tell me during what period it was and whether it is somehow linked to any of the provisions of the proposed legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u51	Thank you. The Member may reply immediately because he is registered with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u52	These are the projects that I mentioned, or it is at the time of the implementation of the operational programme and the financing from the European Social Fund. This would be more detailed here by the Ministry of Education in the relevant pages of these projects. That's where you'd see the overlay of the projects, the financing of the activities. What Mr Kořenek said here. The thing isn't black and white. People do good things and things that they have a personal interest in. From the point of view of these funds, I find personal interest unmistakable, virtually. Even in the context of this debate, I can hardly explain it any other way. And as for the Minister, in terms of disrespecting the part of the interest groups that were on the round table. Here I merely paraphrased the statement made by Deputy Minister Mlsna, as he said on the school committee. He said that on the round table she clashed with the opinions of psychologists and psychiatrists, and the ministry decided to put on psychiatrists and not hear psychologists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u53	I thank you for keeping time. And now properly logged in to the debate. The first is Mrs Anna Putnová, and Mrs Ivana Dobešová will be prepared after her. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u54	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared an amendment and I would like to introduce you to its content before I sign up for it in a detailed debate. It is an amendment which has two points, the main aim of which is to maintain current legislation. This is the release of the amendment point number 75 and number 89. Let me make this brief. As far as Amendment 75 is concerned, it assumes that the power to propose appeals by directors to school councils would be revoked. Many of you remember when we tried to get greater powers for school councils in 2010 as well as responsibility for children's education. They are mostly parents who are directly involved in education and quality of the school. I consider it a step backwards in order to lessen the parent's competence so that, in a situation where we wish the parental public to take part in the responsibility for the quality of the school, this way is a hug. So I'm going to make this amendment point go away and leave the same modification. The same applies to Amendment No 89. This is an opportunity to access information relating to the results of the exams. The current legislation is that if you apply for the results of your graduation exams, you will receive a full package of results that anonymously identifies individual students, but you have results from school. The legislation introduced by the amendment to the School Act concerns that these results fall within a special system which would be subject to secrecy. I think it's a very wrong move again. The explanatory memorandum states that the purpose is to protect, in particular, data obtained by extraction for purposes for which it has not been used and whose fulfilment would undermine the credibility of the processing of such data. It is not entirely clear why credibility should be impaired by being informed of the matter. Perhaps it would be based on the assumption that the information itself is dubious and that it would not stand up to public criticism. Transparency is one of the principles of public administration, and I therefore propose that we have the right to obtain information freely and that the legislation that makes this possible today should continue to be preserved. The amendment to the school law, as we had the opportunity to judge it until now, brings a number of controversial provisions and also brings proposals that bring us back two generations. Administration, control, restrictions, secrecy. These two amendments, which I mentioned, are an example of the fact that in some cases we are going back to a period of rigid standardisation by the amendment to the School Act. Therefore, I cannot agree with this presentation on these points and will sign up in a detailed debate on the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u55	Thank you, Madame. I will now ask Mrs Ivana Dobešová for her contribution to the debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u56	Hello, Mr President, hello, Minister, fellow Members. I would also like to contribute my contribution to the debate on the subject of Amendment 561, the Education Act. Since I am the rapporteur for the Yes Club for my colleagues, I have really studied this amendment very carefully and in my report, which I have prepared for my colleagues, I have noted that the amendment addresses 30 topics in my scope. Unfortunately, all the discussions on committees, subcommittees only revolved around the three topics. One of them was Section 16, which in the current wording of Law 561 is very general and does not define any rules for assessing pupils with special educational needs, and the amendment of the Act really tries for the first time in history to set certain rules. I really appreciate it. I was surprised by the reaction of all associations, institutions dealing with this topic and their determination to concentrate on § 16a para. 5 and the controversial sentences that have been raised here several times today. I appreciate all the colleagues who have spoken here and studied this paragraph and, despite their experience, have given their opinion here. Let me give my opinion, too. I don't know how many of you here or sitting in parliament have a mentally disabled child at home. I've been for 20 years. Today I learned for the first time that the diagnosis of mental disability does not exist. I've lived with her for 20 years. I have to say that I have been through several pedagogical-psychological counselings and their examinations, and I have paid a tax for the fact that in 2000 we decided to transfer all responsibility to the region and the regions also manage their pedagogical-psychological counseling in their concepts, so the approaches to the examination are different and the guidelines on how to proceed based on the results of the examination are also different. And for the first time in this amendment, I perceive the attempt by the Ministry of Education to regain control of the fact that the person who is being investigated in pedagogical psychology counseling is being examined with the same result in Moravia as in Prague. Thanks to the fact that this centralization has been here, I have not come to this conclusion with my child. I am surprised that at the same time, when it is an attempt to say that mental disability should also be considered in relation to the social and cultural background of the child, it is actually counterproductive. From my point of view, it's not counterproductive. I'm not ashamed to have an expert come to my home, interview me, and conclude whether or not I'm dedicated enough to my child, and if it comes to the conclusion that I'm not, I expect him to recommend what I should do further to develop it. I think that the Ministry's intention was not as profoundly meticulous as some Members have suggested here. I am extremely sorry, because all those who talk about this in a consecrated way, what they have to say about it, after the end of this House, close the door behind them and do not have to deal with the problem. I do, because I'm with my baby 24 hours a day. Therefore, please consider, because you are wise people, as well as my opinion of a person who has lived with this problem for 20 years. Perhaps it will not be important enough for you, perhaps you will take the view of other Members, but I beg you to at least take him into consideration. This is to Section 16. I think that's a lot to say. Another topic that was discussed by subcommittees and committees was domestic education. As head of school, I say that home education certainly has a place in the education system. However, we should evaluate whether, in fact, all primary schools at second level, conditions are created so that directors can provide this home education. Mr Kořenek has already said here that it will really complicate the lives of directors from the point of view of the organization. Not small schools, but large schools, because of course, some parents will ask for consultations, and that is the time that educators must devote to the child outside their work obligations. I know that the Ministry of Education has no special means in its resources for the wages of educators who will pursue this topic. Therefore, please let us consider whether it really is necessary for this domestic education, this amendment, which wants to include home education across borders in all schools, is really necessary if it would not be better if domestic education were to be provided at a certain type of primary school, let's say that they are planned from the point of view of the region. As far as the register of contracts is concerned, I must say that I, as director, see this as a positive step, because, in fact, the teaching faculties have recently educated more teachers in fields that are not so much needed in the labour market and are less educated in natural sciences, mathematics, physics, etc. and the register of contracts should certainly help to do so. As I have already said, the amendment to the law addresses far more points and will define life in schools in far more areas than has been mentioned here. One area is the final exams that will now be guaranteed by uniform award, which I consider a very good step towards unifying the outcomes of this type of education. What this amendment does not address and what I would like to address with amendments is the quality of vocational education in secondary vocational schools. That is why I have prepared one of the amendments concerning the possibility of creating so-called. corporate schools. It is meant that I do not expect a general increase in secondary schools, because there are a lot of them in this republic, but I assume that those schools which the regional authorities want to insensitively optimize and often violently connect with other types of secondary schools, such as high school, business academy, and which, of course, suffer in its quality in the future, can be transferred to companies that show interest in these vocational schools, because their production programme corresponds precisely to the content of the training of these vocational schools. I would very much like you to support this amendment, to become part of the Government's amendment. [[11.50 hours]] I then submit two amendments for myself. One concerns school councils. Once again, a topic that was raised by subcommittees and committees. I will now say for myself as director of my opinion on the functioning of the school board. The competences that school councils have today, and to the extent that they work, and the way that they are staffed for inclusion today, are not functional enough for schools. They may, of course, become an instrument for the school director's dismissal, but mostly they are in secondary schools rather bodies which will not make the school director's activities too easy. Therefore, I would like to propose an amendment that, in the field of education with practical training, i.e. in schools where these fields are included, the school councils should be extended from one-third representation to a quarter representation. Let me just remind you. The first third are representatives of the founder, representatives of the educational body, parents' representatives and elderly pupils. I would like to amend this third representation to a quarter and a quarter by the amendment, the representatives of precisely the social partners, i.e. the companies to which these schools are linked. Believe that this will help school directors much in their management and planning of the future. For one thing, they will learn exactly what companies need, and they will also enter the school and learn about the environment in which the school prepares its future graduates. I've been seeing scissors open lately between what professional firms need and what professional schools produce. And one moment of disproportion may also be that both parties do not have enough opportunity in terms of formal relations and better practice to connect with the school. They do it, but in informal relationships. My second amendment concerns higher vocational schools. In the section concerning higher vocational schools, the amendment does not express itself in any way to higher vocational schools. My amendment, which I will sign up for in detail in the debate, addresses the formal issue of the length of the admission process at higher vocational schools. Under the current law, higher vocational schools can accept students until the first year by 30 September, but from the point of view of practice, because I am the director of higher vocational schools, I see the need to extend this term of admission to the first year by 31 October. The reason is purely and purely practical. Many students have two applications. He is admitted to higher education and to university. In the first month students will basically find out if they want to stay in the Bachelor's field of study, and if they decide not to, they still have, if we extend the deadline for admission to the first year, a chance to get into a similar field at a higher vocational school. I believe that you will also support this amendment, because it is rather a technical amendment. In conclusion, I would like to thank you all because I see that you have been watching me very closely. Thank you for your attention. I hope we can come to a consensus so that the directors who read the amendment in the principal's office don't pull their hair. It happened to me, gentlemen and ladies, sometimes in the principal's office, because basically I found that the things that are in the law are almost unrealistic for a certain size and type of school. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u57	Thank you, Madame. I have here one factual comment by Mr Zlatuška. Mrs Nohavová will then be prepared with her contribution. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I completely agree with what my colleague Dobešová said here about the need to unify the assessment so that there are no differences. Unfortunately, if only this were part of the ministerial proposal, it would be okay. As for the environmental effects that are repeatedly mentioned here, I have the contents of the MKF manual, which is a World Health Organization manual which is also valid in the Czech Republic. There are parts - one-stage qualifications, two-stage qualifications, there are sub-chapters - physical functions, physical structures, activities, and participation, and four environmental factors. Environmental factors, including social factors, are now part of this manual. There's no need to break any other provisions. It is contained in what should be taken into account today and what all the opponents have also said: follow the MKF manual, not the invalid American book.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. One more point of fact. Mr. Bendl reporting. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the previous speaker's account, who wants to make amendments that would allow the privatisation or sale of private high school companies, I would like to say that the Member is also the director of one of the secondary schools where Agrofert asked the Central Bohemia Region to buy out the school that the region needs. I think it would be fair of her to say that she's a bit of a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u61	Thank you. Mrs Dobešová, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to this. It's disinformation that went through the newspapers about Agrofert's intention to purchase a secondary agricultural and higher vocational school in Benešov. I was at the meeting. She didn't want to buy it. She dealt with the county for ten years with a commitment to investment in the property of the region. She didn't want to deal with the county property buyout. So I'm extremely sorry. It's misinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u63	Thank you. Mr Bendl again with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u64	Thank you for signing up for this. That is why you are proposing amendments to make this law possible. The management of the Central Bohemia Region officially at the meeting of the Regional Council on the question whether Agrofert was interested in buying this secondary school got the answer, didn't it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u65	Thank you. Mrs Dobešová, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u66	Then I'm sorry. The discussion was irrelevant because I have the letter in my hand. There was no such thing. I am extremely sorry that the Central Bohemia Region is disinformed. I'm terribly sorry. I came from a different experience. I'm being approached by representatives of different regions. One of my first tasks in November last year, when I became chair of the subcommittee, was to solve problems in the Pardubice Region, where the really insensitive optimization of eleven schools was solved. I'm glad that in the finals we managed to find a solution that didn't happen. I know that in other regions some companies have shown interest in running schools that wanted to optimize the regions. They weren't allowed to. That was the only target. And I think it wouldn't be fair to apply to just one school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u67	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u68	On the contrary, my colleague, through the President. It would be fair if you said that you were in a conflict of interest, that you are the director of an organization that deals with ten-year-old high school rents with significant land in Benešov region and the like that represents a political party that is very close to Agrofert. And I'm sorry, it's just a conflict of interest, you should have said it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u69	Good afternoon. Thank you. We will not continue the debate yet, but with a point of fact - please, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u70	I would also like to respond to that one more time. I don't know which land you're talking about, because there's no land in the Central Bohemia Region in Benešov. You haven't had time to transfer them from the Land Fund in 15 years. You guys are so lazy, somebody's gonna pull 'em out! So please don't at least have the Chamber of Deputies here and be fair enough to say that the land is the Land Fund and they're rented, they're asked for and they're not issued. So this land couldn't be involved. And since you're holding my brochure, I'd like to respond to the case you're developing at the county office in an attempt to damage the school somehow. Please, it is a brochure that links the school with practice exactly in line with the requirements of the region. Not only does it promote Agrofert, but also other companies. And of course, there are also representatives of the ODS, for example, on the last page behind the Federation of Farmers. There is the logo of the Central Bohemia Region and of course there are logos of other companies. Thank you, Mr. Bendle, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u71	Thank you, Mrs Ivana Dobešová. A colleague, Schwarz, was registered before a colleague named Bendl to make a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u72	Hello, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I'd like to ask you, a colleague and a colleague, to talk about the school bill. I don't want to defend myself, I don't want to solve your problem. I just want to ask you, since I'm tired of hearing suggestions from the right-wing spectrum over there that we could vote on, let's not, let's not, let's not, let's not, let's not, let's not, let's just, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, We're talking about the school bill. I don't understand the conflict of interest. Let us discuss the school law, which will be for all schools - not just hers or Agroferta or the Central Bohemia Region. Please, for all the schools. Maybe my place and Most's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u73	I thank my colleague Schwarz. I just point out that any Member who acts if he feels he is in conflict of interest is supposed to report this before his speech, that is the Act on Rules of Procedure. So in this respect, I cannot prevent the debate in any way. prosit, Mr Bendl, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u74	Thank you. I'll be brief. Just a fellow Member through the President, you actually confirmed that you knew about the land. The Civil Democratic Party does not have a coalition on the edge for the second term, it has not negotiated with you as director of its controlled organization and Agrofert on interest in the purchase or long-term lease of a high school. However, here you are suggesting that in the law we are talking about today, there are provisions that would make it easier for Agrofert to buy this high school. And the fact that you mentioned this brochure -- well, I've been hiding it here for a long time, because that's where you're presenting especially Agrofert and not the founder who's funding you. But that's all your business and that of the YES movement, which you are a member of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u75	Thank you for keeping time. One more point in fact, Mrs Dobešová. Then perhaps he will get to a properly registered colleague Alena Nohavová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u76	Thank you so much for finally reading it, Mr Bendl. I'm afraid when he was the governor, he didn't read any of my brochures. If I've achieved the effect of actually meeting the school, I'm very pleased. I hope the rest of you will read it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u77	Thank you. We will now continue the proper debate. Mrs Alena Nohavová will appear, Mr Ivan Gabal will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on Section 47 of the Education Act, which concerns the establishment of preparatory classes. The Government's proposal states that the municipality, the county, the union of municipalities, religious societies can establish preparatory classes in primary schools for children in the last year before compulsory schooling starts, for which it is assumed that the inclusion in the preparatory class will compensate for their development, in particular for the children allowed to postpone schooling. In the amendment, I propose replacing the word with the word 'preferably' in particular because, in fact, such classes could be filled with younger children, including five-year-old children, and children who delay schooling would basically be neglected. Thus, the word primarily corrects this ambiguity. This is not hindered by the founders - children who have been suspended from school will be placed first and, if there is a place, children can be included in this class without delay, especially children with border conditions, where, according to experts, it would be appropriate to delay schooling, but parents do not agree. Or, on the contrary, when parents demand a delay, but in the opinion of professional educators, a delay is not necessary. This text clearly favours children with a delay in schooling, and this also follows up on the upcoming amendment on the establishment of the compulsory final year of the kindergarten. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u79	Thank you, Mrs Alena Nohavová. Mr Ivan Gabal will speak in the debate and Mr Rostislav Vyzula will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u80	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, government. I will make my amendment in a detailed debate. I'm applying now. Let me just say a few words to justify it. The education system is integrating not only in the field of transfer of knowledge of cultural capital, the development of skills, traditions, but also in terms of the development of social inequalities in access to the labour market, employment, quality and standard of living. One of the most important sources of educational inequality in the Czech Republic and the inequality of educational chances is social origin. The education and social status of parents in a significant way, as shown by the results of the available analyses, affects children's chances. The education system thus directly affects inequalities in Czech society, its cohesion, occurrence and chances of overcoming the poor social situation, lower education of parents etc. International comparisons and research e.g. OECD belongs to the Czech Republic in the long term to countries where educational results and educational careers of children are above average heavily influenced by their social origin and are thus strongly influenced by extracurricular factors. For your idea: the Czech Republic is about the fourth and fifth with the strongest effect in terms of the strength of the influence of social origin on the educational career of children from around 60 and 70 of the compared countries. The Czech Republic still draws information on the weight of social origin and the lower added value of the school for children's chances especially from international PISA research. And because the results of pupils from their social origin have not been improved in the long run, regular monitoring is necessary and, on the basis of our own detailed investigation, development of both educational pathways and children's chances must be carried out on the basis of their economic, social and ethnic origin. All of this is essential for the effective implementation and use of school policy, for its optimisation, including financial investment. It is important to emphasise, and for your idea that these inequalities have an extremely significant territorial impact on the reduction of the chances of children from some regions, regardless of their individual abilities. This means a really strong topic for Members of the Moravian-Silesian Region, the Ústecký Region, the Karlovy Vary Region, part of the Olomouc Region, and finding an answer to why children in these regions are structurally disadvantaged and have lower chances of achieving higher education levels is indeed relevant. [[12.10 hours]] My personal experience is that even in the most difficult areas of social dynamics, if there is no good information, nothing will be dealt with. Only when information is available can it be possible to optimize policies and start talking about how to solve the problem at all. From a general point of view, I think that we should also be interested in knowing how our children's chances develop in international comparison and their ability to stand up to the European labour market. It turns out that in those generations that lived in a closed environment, they did not have the opportunity to learn about European education in a variety of fields, and that is, today parents are unable to support their children's knowledge of this environment, our school system is unable to supplement and give them these competences. That is why we have small shares of children who go to foreign study internships and stays, which is why we are so difficult to apply on the European labour market. As this is a standard type of investigation, especially in developed countries, I allocate my amendment responsibility for regular annual sufficiently detailed measurements of social inequalities and inequalities of chances under the competence of the Czech School Inspection and should be routine and results and information should be available to the general public, whether it concerns the school public or the administrative, regional, local and other bodies, including the professional public, for comparison. Thank you for your attention and, if necessary, for your support for this proposal. It's really important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u81	I thank Mr Ivan Gabal for his speech. Mr Rostislav Vyzula will also speak in the debate, Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to one issue concerning the Education Act, in the first part of article one, Amendment point 31. I suggest we cancel it without compensation. And since I would then come forward in a detailed debate on this proposal, I would just briefly justify it. Amendment point 31 in the first article, one amendment amends Section 50 of the Education Act in the sense that it complements paragraph 3. 4 as follows. I quote: "If a foreigner who does not have permanent residence in the Czech Republic does not participate in teaching continuously for at least 60 teaching days and fails to demonstrate the reasons for his absence in accordance with the conditions laid down in the school rules, he will cease to be a pupil of the school on the day following that period." There's a certain discrepancy that could lead to discrimination against foreigners. I'd just try to define it. The concept of a foreigner is defined in the provisions of Section 20, with aliens meaning citizens of the European Union and their family members, as well as citizens of third States having the same conditions for access to education as defined in paragraph 2. Article 2 (2) (a) to (d). The amount to be reported in column 010 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. 4 introduces a different regime for foreigners, when these are subject to compulsory schooling according to the above provisions, they should have the same conditions for access to education in accordance with § 20. However, if these do not have a permanent residence, which is different from the right to reside in accordance with § 36, then in the case of a 60-day unforgivable absence, they cease to be pupils of the school, but this cannot happen to a citizen of the Czech Republic. The point is, therefore, that we do not discriminate against foreigners from the European Union, because the results of the European Commission's negotiations are known, which have already dealt with this discrimination, for example, in the case of the Kingdom of Spain, and could then be subject to unnecessary judicial proceedings. That's all. I thank you for your attention and, of course, for the possible support of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u83	I thank Mr Rostislav Vyzula and Mr Jan zahradník will be the last duly signed up in the general debate. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u84	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with my speech on the subject that Mr Vyzula has now mentioned, and these are the conditions for participation in the training process for foreigners - not members of the European Union. I remember, many years ago, as the regional governor, I presented a regional bill that would allow these children access not only to education, but also to activities that are offered by our schools outside the main educational process, such as school meals or participation in clubs and extra-educational activities. At the time, the proposal was as a draft regional sweep, but I can see that it is finally happening and that, despite the flaws that Mr Vyzula rightly reproaches, these fellow citizens actually have the right to an education similar to our children. I would also like to draw attention to a number of things as part of my prepared contribution, in particular Section 19, which requires the Ministry to lay down various procedural matters to ensure that this law is fulfilled, namely point (h), which sets out the conditions for the use of an assistant teacher. We need to realise how important this institute is, because if we want to integrate children with a greater or lesser degree of disability into the mainstream of the educational process, in my opinion, the person and the teaching assistant is necessary. In addition, there is the preparation of teachers for primary schools in structured studies, which means students will end the first, Bachelor's degree, and they still have to go to the degree of Master's degree, because it is possible to become a teacher only for those who have completed the Master's degree of study. Graduates who, for any reason, would like to finish their studies with a bachelor's degree are actually allowed in this field of teaching only about two possible applications - a person engaged in the preparation of children's leisure activities, possibly an assistant teacher. I therefore intercede for this assistant to be very carefully considered in the accompanying resolutions and accompanying documents that the Ministry will prepare. I would also like to comment on the register of teaching staff. What I think mostly we can blame is that it actually makes available relatively private teacher data, which my fellow Member Radim Holeček has already criticised here. I would like to look at another point that I would like to blame this register for, and that is that many of us, I think Mr Kořenek, have said so, and in the end some media interpretation of this paragraph is expressed in our media, that this register could help schools to better obtain inadequate teacher-probation into their teachers' choirs. I am therefore concerned that this will not contribute to this unfortunately, because some lack of aprobation, I am thinking for example and aprobation of mathematics - physics, in particular the teaching of physics is very narrow profile, a very small number of secondary school graduates are determined to go to the teaching faculty to study physics. Of course, it is because it is a very demanding field, whether from the point of view of study itself or then from the point of view of teaching practice. A similar fate pursues mathematics. So I do not think that we will increase the number of future teachers of mathematics, or of these courses, by creating a register of teaching staff, whose existence will, on the one hand, burden the school directors with further administrative activities and, of course, also open up certain personal data of teachers. I would therefore join those Members and Members who will vote to exclude this paragraph, namely Section 28a, from the proposal. [[12.20 hours]] Finally, my last point I want to address is Section 32 of our proposal, which talks about banning the activities and promotion of political parties and the movement and banning advertising. Of course, there is nothing against the fact that political parties and their promotion are not allowed in schools, we all know that and agree with that and, of course, we all respect this paragraph. But then there's another paragraph that talks about banning advertising - [[paragraph]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u85	My colleague, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u86	Thank you. About banning advertising, but also about banning offering for sale or selling itself. First of all, this rather sensitive topic does not appear in the title of the section, where it ends with advertising, so there is no talk of a ban on sales. This is quite sensitive because there is a ban on the sale of foods that are contrary to nutritional requirements for healthy nutrition of children, pupils and students. Who will determine these requirements? Well, in the next sentence, they say it's going to be decided by the Ministry by decree or two by decree. Then again, he will be a ministerial servant who, in his wisdom, will know what the nutritional requirements are. Such vague determination can be quite dangerous. I've had my own experience with this. When I once wrote school rules when starting a private school as a new director, I also wrote such vague provisions that it is forbidden to bring harmful substances to the school. I meant, if anyone had thought of bringing in some alcohol or Godless drugs, then one clever student asked whether the ban also applies to bread with lard, which can also be perceived as harmful to health, even though generations of our grandfathers grew up on it and it was quite a desired food for them. That's why I think it's better, and I think there's a certain preparation of a more detailed list of those drinks and foods that really do harm, let's say drinks, for example, according to the caffeine content, and that can be quite precisely determined. How about milk? Milk is certainly considered a healthy food, but is it considered the same healthy food milk colored or milk sweetened, supplemented with some artificial flavoring ingredient? That just doesn't come out of it, of course. This will be done on the will of ministerial servants, and I therefore think that this paragraph is also not, in my opinion, well placed in this proposal. I have not prepared any amendment, I just want to express my opinion, which, for these two reasons, is not very positive. Thank you very much, and I'm saying goodbye to you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u87	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. Now, in the general debate, the President of the KDU-ČSL Club, Mr Jiří Mihola. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u88	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few more comments on the amendment to the School Act. Since I am also Vice-President of the Education Committee, I have been involved in these debates, so I would like to respond to some of the contributions here. I intend to be the last to speak with priority rights, precisely because I have listened to this whole extensive debate here to clarify some things or to respond to others. I think that the issue was given due attention both on the subcommittees and then on the school committee itself. Some colleagues have just repeated themselves here, others have expanded their views, suggestions and comments or have said something new. So let me first stress the support of KDU-ČSL to individual education, or home education. We believe that, firstly, it is operational at the first stage, where it has been part of the standard education system for 15 years, as well as the experimental verification of this home education at the second stage has already been carried out for the eighth year, and the National Education Institute recommends the legislative anchoring of this home education for the second stage. I myself have devoted myself to this quite extensively, and you know that in other matters we try not only to communicate, but also to get to know the terrain, so I would also like to argue with the topics that have been said here as a degradation of the teaching profession. I really don't think so. I think it's a rather difficult decision for homeschooling, given the demands it makes for one who educates. It's really hard for everyone to dare. And also the idea that this whole education takes place only in a room somewhere in a closed space, I think it's odd. I know this from specific situations where, on the one hand, there are subjects where it is worth more people meeting and an expert is available to them, because not everything really can be done by parents themselves, so even in this system it is functional. And then I think that this individual approach allows far more practical knowledge than school allows. And when we were talking about these labs, as important as they are, let's all remember when in those classrooms, like 30, 40, today, well, just 20 students, they were really enjoying the experiment in the front row or those closest to it, they were just looking at each other, and the third ones were already talking about something else. So then it can't be said that there has to be some sort of handicap in this, when someone at home shows something to someone, directly to the individual, and they can devote themselves to them in this way. I support the amendment by Professor Putnová in this regard, and I think we have declared more than once that there is actually a common view of most clubs, as far as I know, of five clubs, which we have repeatedly referred to as committees. Then I would also like to comment on the question of preparatory classes. It is good that they are expanding, but it is not clear to me why they should be excluded from subsidies or from support for the operation of the church class or church education. I go and drive - and believe that I am very much in contact with a lot of facilities and with a lot of colleagues such as the faculty of education, so they also prefer them for their children, and please, it is not a question of confession, but when they can, they prefer very often the church kindergartens, if they are at hand or available, or primary schools, so I do not fully understand this approach. Based on the results achieved and the interest in church education, we should rather cultivate and emphasize support, not extract them from something. With regard to school councils, which, as has been said, have worked since 2004, I think they have a purpose, but if they work, which I fear in many cases is rather a formal matter and an unfulfilled idea, which is a shame. Here I would rather demand that, after these x years, the activities of school boards and their functionality be evaluated in a more extensive way. Here I would also come across this - I am in favour of the parents' participation in the running and management of the school, but it must not take place in such a way that these parents are elected in full formality, they do not even represent anyone anywhere. [[12.30 hours]] I was alone in a situation where voices were simply collected blindly, and only the local counselor or landlady said, "Yeah, she's good, she's decent. He's dedicated to that or that." So if there's such a representation that parents don't really know who they have or who they're supposed to lean on and who represents their interests, then I think it sucks. I believe, however, that if, in any way, the school board can be revived in its function, I do not think that it is appropriate or good to limit their competence in any way, that it could be very beneficial precisely for the school to function as it should be. Otherwise, I would also stress the right of parents and the public to have free access to information. I don't even agree with any reduction here. I think that information on the quality of schools, however much we can argue, to question different rankings, after all, we are also dealing with this, even as regards various comparisons of research into electoral and other research, so I certainly would not prevent any information of this type. I think it's the wrong way. This amendment to the Education Act - its main intention was mainly to change access to the education of pupils and students with special educational needs. Many have been said about this, so I do not want to repeat myself or argue too much, because the controversy was from the subcommittee through the committee, and I think it is clear that experts will not agree either. I spoke to a number of them at the Faculty of Education. It wasn't about five minutes, but it was always an hour talk. It seems to me, after a thorough consideration, that it is probably the most sensible to support Mrs Berdychová's amendment, namely the disputed or so discussed passage, the paragraph 5 of paragraph 16a, simply to dismiss. So I will personally support this amendment and recommend it to the KDU-ČSL members. Finally, let me also support Mr Gabal's amendment concerning Section 174 in the second paragraph on the implementation of the annual survey on equal access to education, in particular with regard to the social and ethnic origin of children and pupils. I fully agree with this, and I think that this will also make a significant contribution to specifying the competence of the Czech School Inspectorate here in these matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u89	I thank Mr Jiří Mihol. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a general debate. It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. As far as the proposals are concerned, I do not think there has been any that we can vote on after the general debate. Before we begin the debate in detail, I will state Mr Stanislav Huml's apology from 14.30 to the end of today's day. I am opening a detailed debate and the first is Mr Petr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a very brief request for written amendments to the 288 press. These are two proposals relating to the resolution of the Education Committee and have been inserted into the system under the numbers 1869 and 1870, and two other amendments which are included in the system under the numbers 1871 and 1872. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u91	I thank Mr Petr Kořenka. Now in a detailed debate, Mrs Pecková. A colleague, Fiedler, will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment under number 1811. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u93	Thank you. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler, in a detailed debate. Mr Karel Fiedler in a detailed debate. Mrs Berdychová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u94	Hello. In a detailed debate only briefly - I am signing up to Parliament's press 1422, which is an amendment relating to this school law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u95	Thank you. Now, Mrs Berdychová, my colleague Nováková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for an amendment which is inserted into the system under number 1824.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u97	Thank you, Mrs Berdychová. Now, Mrs Nováková, Mrs Semelová will be ready. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u98	Thank you for that word. Ladies and gentlemen, I sign up for an amendment that is inserted into the system under number 1757. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u99	Thank you. Now, Mrs Marta Semelová and Mrs Putnová will be ready. My colleague Semelová isn't here, so she's dropping out of order. I'll put it in the end. [[The MP is coming into the hall.]] He's here. Now, Madame, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u100	Thank you. I would like to sign up for Amendment 1599, which is recorded in electronic form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u101	Thank you. Mrs Putnová now. Mrs. Dobešová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u102	Thank you for the floor. I want to sign up for the amendment, bearing the number 1889. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u103	Thank you. Now, Mrs Dobešová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for two amendments. One is listed in the electronic system under number 1892, the other under number 1896. Furthermore, let me, on behalf of Ms Jaroslava Jermanová, also sign up for her amendment, which is in the electronic system under number 1336. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u105	Thank you. Now, Mrs Alena Nohavová, then Mr Gabal. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u106	Thank you for the floor. I sign up for my amendment, which was inserted into the system under number 1827.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u107	Thank you. Mr Gabal now, then Mr Vyzula. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I am signing up for Amendment 1882, which concerns the regular measurement of the inequality of educational opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u109	Thank you. Mr Vyzula now, Mr Snopek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to apply to the amendment to the press 288, this is the House press 1728. [[document]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u111	Thank you. Now, Mr Snopek, Mrs Bohdalová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u112	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I am reporting for an amendment that has been included in the system under number 1899. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u113	Thank you. Now, Mrs Bohdalová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare my amendment to the Parliamentary Press 288, which is listed in the system under number 1825.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u115	Thank you. Last in a detailed debate, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u116	Thank you. I report to my amendment, which is inserted in the electronic system under number 1848.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u117	Thank you. This was the last Member in writing, a Member in a detailed debate. I ask who else is reporting to the debate in detail. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Yes, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the inspiring debate which, in the vast majority, has been on a professional level for a few minutes. I would like to thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank you for the fact that much of the changes, because there are about 18 or 20 of them in the amendment, so since no one has been critical of most of these proposals, I take it that this is positively perceived across the political spectrum, and this is how it should be. Of course, we will now have those 21 or 22 amendments withdrawn, and we will also give you the expert opinion of our legislation. So thank you again for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-004-014.u119	I thank the Minister of Education. And now, the rapporteur, if she does not declare herself to the final word after a detailed debate. [[She didn't check in.]] Since there was no proposal in the detailed debate that we should vote on, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and finish point 14. Let's continue with point 15. That's what it is.
