ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u1	140. Oral inhalation First of all, we will begin an oral interview with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, who will interpel the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the state of preparation of the state service with a link to the drawing of European funds, will give the first interview according to the winning order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u2	Dear Prime Minister, in December, I had the honour of interviewing you on the question of preparing the fiscal period of 2013-2020, with the fact that a year has passed and a single programme has not yet been bogged down, and its negation is not in sight. Minister Šlechtová reserved the right to have the same time as the Government of Topolánkův, which was 18 months old, for an interview I had similar, and she promised that the negation would take place within those 18 months, which is until June of this year. I have accepted this information with satisfaction, but I cannot say that I believe it at this time, because the conduct of the Service Act and the existence of the State Service is a condition for drawing up, and however we have managed to pass the Civil Service Act, I feel that the Government has been sleeping hard for several months and that the preparation of the State Service lacks a systemization regulation, which means that we do not know who will be in that service and will not be, and therefore we do not know how much it will cost us if we do not have a regulation. There are no rules for the organisation of the service office, no government regulations setting out the fields of service, and there is no official examination at all. If the administrative examination is not prepared, of course, the transitional period cannot be terminated. I cannot imagine, I hope, that you will lead me astray, that all of this can be done so that by June of this year, the public service is running flawlessly, and therefore it was possible to start drawing funds from the European Union. If I'm wrong, please make a mistake. But if I'm not mistaken, please tell me what the consequences will be that we won't be ready in time. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u3	I thank Mr Kalousek and ask the Prime Minister for an answer to his first interview. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u4	Hello. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would certainly like to assure Mr Kalousek and all Members that the government is doing everything possible to be prepared in time. It's a fight on two fronts. In the first phase, this is our attempt to end technical negotiations with the European Commission as soon as possible on the form of all operational programmes. I would like to inform you that the technical negotiations for the three operational programmes are in principle over. These are the three operational programmes that were sent to Brussels last year. For the vast majority of other operational programmes, we assume that they will be sent now, even in January, and in the coming weeks technical negations will be completed. So the obstacle and problem is not on the side of the preparation of individual operational programmes. Here I think the government is moving as fast as possible. What, of course, is a bigger problem, it has to do with how the Czech Republic was prepared in the so-called area. general consistency, that is to say, the conditions that are important for us, on the one hand, to be able to conclude a partnership agreement and then to achieve the start of drawing European funds. One of the key conditions was the adoption of the Civil Service Act. I'm glad he's clear on the matter. I remember the debate that was held here in the Chamber of Deputies last year, when the government presented this bill and we had a debate on the extent to which the European Commission is actually asking us to adopt the Civil Service Act, and I think it is now quite obvious that this is a key condition that it was a key condition for the adoption of the Civil Service Act and its full implementation for us to begin drawing European funds at all. Now on Wednesday, at the government meeting, we will discuss an updated timetable for the preparation of all the sub-laws that should lead to the implementation of the Civil Service Act. The timetable is already prepared by the Ministry of Interior and is ready to approve all key regulations during the first half of this year. This means that these regulations should be prepared so that the vast majority of them will pass through the government in the first half of 2015. I would like to remind you that we have undertaken under the Partnership Agreement to speed up the effective implementation of the Civil Service Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2015, while all relevant documents for its implementation will come into effect and will be fully implemented by the end of 2015. But it is also said in the Partnership Agreement that the law must be formally approved until the programmes of the European Structural and Investment Funds are adopted. I would therefore like to state that the law has already been passed, it is effective and our aim is that we also fulfil the remaining condition of the Partnership Agreement, which means that all these regulations will enter into force and be fully implemented by the end of 2015. We are discussing intensively with the European Commission. I would like to mention in particular the meeting that took place on 9 January this year in order to exchange information on the implementation of the Civil Service Act. On the basis of this meeting, we agreed that the Czech Republic would send the European Commission a list of all implementing regulations as soon as possible, including an updated timetable for their implementation. So we're going to have a worked-up action plan. The action plan will be evaluated. We therefore assume that further negotiations with the European Commission will continue at the turn of January - February. As far as the preparation for drawing funds is concerned, I would like to mention that the government has already started preparing the rules last year so that we can call for drawing calls before the programme is approved, that is to say, legislation will allow us to do so, and our aim is to prepare ourselves sufficiently so that the government can already agree on the call system for individual prepared operational programmes, with some of these calls being announced during the first half of this year. So much so briefly on how the government is now working intensively to implement the Civil Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u5	I thank the Prime Minister and Mr Kalousek has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u6	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. In addition to the fight on the two fronts that I agree with, I'm afraid we need to add a third front, and that's the struggle with our own incompetence. If a month after he's been approved for civil service, the government will approve next week's schedule of legal standards, it's ridiculous. That timetable, as you well know, should have been approved by the government at a time when the law was being discussed, as it always does with these standards. Even your words only confirmed that you were asleep for three months, because now you're going to discuss the timetable. However, I take note of your information that you will approve this during the first half of the year and that this does not endanger the commitment of Minister Šlechtová, who said here a month ago that by the end of June all programmes will be undermined, as did the Topolánkův Government, 18 months after the adoption of the European Commission's rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u7	I thank Mr Kalousek. Prime Minister with a follow-up response. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u8	Thank you. I agree that it would certainly be too late if we started to deal with the timetable for preparing these documents until next week's government meeting. I just want to remind you that I said here that this will be an update of the timetable. We'll update the schedule. Proposals are already being prepared at individual resorts, which means especially at the Ministry of the Interior, but also at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as well as at the Ministry of Finance. So at this point, the government will discuss the updated timetable and this updated timetable, which we should discuss and approve at next week's government meeting, we will provide representatives of the European Commission at the next meeting, which will take place precisely to ensure that the European Commission understands well the preparation in the Czech Republic and that this preparation corresponds to what the Czech Republic has guaranteed under the Partnership Agreement. I would also like to remind you that, within the framework of the updated timetable, we also address the issue of adjusting the remuneration of civil servants. This, among other things, has also been addressed by the Coalition Council, which met after the previous government meeting, and our aim is also to approve the amendment of the rules in this area so as to guarantee the remuneration of the state administration, which will be fair, fair and transparent and, in particular, a transparent performance component of civil servants' salaries. So much for a very brief debate with the European Commission. In any case, I would like to state that this is one of the key priorities for preparing the government to draw on European funds - to complete the full implementation of the Civil Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. We'll proceed to the second interpellation. Mr Igor Jakubčík will interpel the Prime Minister on a single foreign policy. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, there are reports in the media that some coalition politicians, for example, the President and, above all, state officials, appear in a number of cases as if their statement and announcement were the official foreign policy of the Czech Republic. For example, I can give a statement by the Secretary of State for European Affairs on the reception of immigrants from Africa and other troubled countries or a statement by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs on the area of respect for human rights. I think and believe that these statements have never been the official foreign policy of the government. These excesses are always followed by the explanation of ministers and of you, Prime Minister, in the media. This does not make a very good impression not only on our citizens but also on our picture in the European Union. My question is what steps the government has taken to promote a single act on foreign policy issues, to better promote our national interests and to be readable. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u11	I thank Mr Jakubčík and the Prime Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is responsible for exercising its authority in the field of foreign policy. The government defines the basic lines of our foreign policy in line with conceptual materials such as the concept of foreign policy of the Czech Republic as well as the security strategy of the Czech Republic. According to our constitution, the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the President of the Republic has the power to represent the state on the outside. Thus, the government can coordinate foreign policy by first approving strategic documents, and second, it also deals with coordinating and approving the official journeys of constitutional officials abroad, and now I am thinking of members of the government and the President of the Republic. For important negotiations concerning the representation of the Czech Republic and the expression of our positions in the negotiations of the European Union or the North Atlantic Alliance, the Government approves the mandates for the negotiations of our representatives. Of course, the government cannot guarantee individual views from individual political parties, individual constitutional actors representing different political parties. What the government can provide is a continuous policy in terms of mandates and the progress of our representatives in organisations in which the Czech Republic actively participates. Of course, the government should also coordinate the positions of constitutional officials and key constitutional actors on the main international events we are confronted with as the Czech Republic. I think that the coordination of our country's appearance within the European Union has been significantly strengthened over the last year, and there has been a significant strengthening of the coordination of the appearance of constitutional actors within the North Atlantic Alliance. As there has been a significant strengthening of economic diplomacy and the activity of our constitutional actors, I believe that there is also coordination of the procedures of individual constitutional actors in supporting our exports. In order to further improve the situation, we together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs have come up with a proposal to create a certain model of coordination of foreign policy of the Czech Republic. It's a new format that hasn't been here in the past. The aim is to include in coordination the President of the Republic, the Presidents of both chambers of Parliament, the Prime Minister and foreign and defence ministers, which means constitutional officials who most often represent the Czech Republic on the outside. We agreed that once every two months under the leadership of the Foreign Minister, representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic, the Office of the Government, the Ministry of Defence, the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies would meet together to discuss the key conceptual issues of our foreign policy three times a year. It is a new format, this form of coordination has not existed here in the past, and I think it is absolutely necessary today, especially in a situation where the nature of the President's mandate has changed. The President of the Republic is now elected directly by citizens, which means that he can be elected by different political currents and by most than those represented in the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate, and we need to ensure good coordination of our foreign policy. Maybe one last point about why this coordination is so important. The point is to make our country clear, to be readable, to be understandable and readable for our partners we have in the European Union, for our allies, which we have in the North Atlantic alliance. If we look at what's happening in the world today, I think it's obvious there's an increase in security risks. We were always a country that tried to be active, trying to influence what was happening in the world. We are among the countries that are actively interested in and are trying to help, and it is also very important that we have a well-coordinated and coordinated foreign policy. So only very briefly to the new format, which is starting to work since spring of this year. I firmly believe that this will be a very useful form of cooperation between the main constitutional actors in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Jakubčík has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u14	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, Prime Minister. I am glad that there is finally some coordination in our foreign policy. I am glad that groups have been created to negotiate with each other. I'm just a little distracted by the frequency of the negotiations. It seems to me that in the current situation where the situation in both the world and Europe is changing almost every moment and three times a year, it seems to me to be quite little. If it wouldn't be worth considering increasing the frequency of these coordination meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u15	The Prime Minister has yet to reply. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u16	Yes. Thank you. First of all. I consider it at all important that representatives of executives and legislation will meet regularly and that executive diplomacy and parliamentary diplomacy will be coordinated. It also has something to do with us being able to plan and coordinate our foreign trips better. Here I think that from the point of view of preparing documentation meetings at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs every two months is optimally timed. When it comes to top-level meetings, we're starting, we're rehearsing the model this year. If, naturally, the need for top constitutional officials to coordinate more frequently in this format is demonstrated, I think there is probably no problem with increasing frequency as needed. [[14.50 hours]] So far, the format of meetings is set up three times a year. I think it is undoubtedly also useful for taxpayers as well as for rationality in terms of spending our funds, because I think it is also very useful not to overlap foreign routes, so that synergies work here, so that we communicate well and prepare economic diplomacy activities, which means that we divide territories from the point of view of individual key constitutional actors in the Czech Republic, which means that there is synergies, so that there is mutual support, so that there is good coordination. So I'm optimistic. I believe that this new format of coordination of our foreign policy in this sense could be useful and, of course, will be supplemented by what has already worked here in the past, and these are the powers that the government has in terms of approving individual foreign journeys by executive representatives, as well as in terms of approving mandates for our representatives in the institutions of the European Union in particular, but also the North Atlantic Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. We have therefore exhausted the second interpelation and will proceed to the third interpellation of Mr Bendl, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of the state enterprise MERO and its personnel situation. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, I do not have much time within this interpellation to discuss the overall links that are taking place today in the area of oil supply and oil distribution through the Czech Republic or into the Czech Republic. However, the report recently flashed that the head of this strategic, strategic enterprise for the Czech Republic, to which MERO is undoubtedly dismissed. The Director-General was dismissed even after his business results were better than the contracting authority's award, after he managed the company for ten years without any scandals, and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the state-owned company MERO himself informed the public that there were no major violations and the like behind the Director-General. Yet he was removed, so did other people from the company's management. Since the company MERO, which also manages CEPRO, which, among other things, mixes biofuels into fuel, is turning into a real billion dollars in this area, and there has always been a debate in the past between the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Finance, if anything has been going on there and, of course, the Prime Minister, because it concerns a significant strategic area of oil trade, I want to ask you, Prime Minister, whether you identify with these personnel changes, whether you knew and supported them and whether you realize that you have a Deputy Prime Minister who really is in a significant conflict of interests in this respect, and what you will do to ensure that the conflict of interests is not misused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u19	I thank Mr Bendl. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u20	Thank you. Dear Member, Mr Vice-President. MERO Czech Republic, joint stock company, is the owner and operator of the Czech part of the pipeline Družba and the pipeline IKL. He is the only transporter of oil to the Czech Republic and the most important company that ensures storage of emergency strategic oil reserves. It is known that the Ministry of Finance is the sole shareholder of MERO. The decision of the sole shareholder shall be within the scope of the general meeting. On 7 January, the Ministry of Finance withdrew Jaroslav Pantiček, Libor Lukášek and Vlastimil Bouru from the Board of Directors of Jaroslav Pantůček, Libor Lukášek and Vlastimil Boura. Stanislav Bruna and Otakar Krejza were appointed to the board of directors of the company at the same time. Mr Vít Tůma remains a third member of the Board of Directors of MERO. Stanislav Bruna also became head of the company. Their task will be to ensure further efficiency of the company's management, to ensure continuity of business relations with key customers and to prepare the company's strategy in historically new conditions of the refining industry in the Czech Republic as well as within the European context. As can be seen from the above, the decision was carried out by the Minister of Finance as a shareholder of MERO. It was therefore the decision of the sole shareholder. As Prime Minister, I was informed before this decision by the Minister of Finance and was informed that the Ministry of Finance, as shareholder through representatives in the Supervisory Board, was not satisfied with the functioning of the company and applied comments in terms of economic performance, remuneration and quality of the company's current strategy. These were therefore the reservations applied by the Ministry of Finance, I was informed about these reservations and the Ministry of Finance subsequently made changes to the management of MERO. With regard to the issue of possible conflicts of interest and suspicion of conflict of interest issues, it is undoubtedly necessary to assess specific cases, specific situations, and if there is any concrete evidence that there is a conflict of interest or that there is some way that there is an abuse of the potential for conflict of interest in favour of a particular commercial entity, in favour of the interest of the State, if there are any such specific knowledge, then naturally I will deal with them. I don't have any such specific knowledge at my disposal yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Bendl asks for an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u22	Thank you for your reply, Prime Minister, although I am not satisfied, and I am surprised that you did not want to know more than the Director-General will be removed, because according to my information, the MERO's economic result was even 100 million higher than originally foreseen. At the same time, if I have the correct information, it was not really, and through the mouth of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board there were no serious grounds for his appeal. If you knew in advance, then either you were identified or you were unable to make any change. If it were B that you weren't able to make any change, then your answer didn't calm me too much, because the conflict of interest, we all suspect, is really big there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u23	Thank you, honourable Member. The Prime Minister has an additional answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u24	Thank you. I think it is really very important that we do not just talk about conflicts of interest on a general level. Naturally, if the owner of a large company gets into the position of Finance Minister, who exercises shareholder rights for the state in a number of companies with state participation, there is a potential for conflict of interest, but there is a need to have concrete evidence that this conflict of interest is taking place, or that the conflict of interest is being abused for the benefit of the State and for the benefit of a particular commercial entity. So, in general, there are undoubtedly situations where there may be a conflict of interest, but then it is important that there are concrete insights, suggestions that we might be dealing with. So I repeat once again: Undoubtedly, if there were such indications, of course, I will deal with them as Prime Minister and will undoubtedly also deal with them by the supervisory authorities of these relevant companies, in which the state is to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u25	So we have exhausted Mr Bendl's interpellation, and the fourth interviewer will be Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who will interpel the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on compensation for architecture students in Brno. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u26	Thank you for the floor. On 20 and 21 November 1989, students met at the Faculty of Architecture in Brno and then teaching staff to express their civic positions. Ing also took part in these meetings. arch. Jan Snášel, then chairman of the basic organization of the KSČ and faculty representative. He threatened both the students and the educators that if they were to strike, the students would be released from their studies or kicked out of their studies, and the teachers would be released. Three students, then students Martin Laštovička, Jiří Slezák, Zdeněk Hirnšal, were identified as a man of arrogant, abusive political status, a demagogy, and condemned his career appearance. . arch. He was suing them and in this case there was a trial, for more than 23 years the courts of all degrees repeatedly decided and finally the Constitutional Court ruled last year in favour of the students. I quote a piece from the Constitutional Court's decision when it says that three students, whose life has included this almost quarter of a century of ongoing dispute, are no longer young people, but middle-aged men, have in the meantime reached a whole new generation. The report that they did not do anything wrong or illegal at the time, but on the contrary, that their actions were worthy of respect, because they risked for a good cause at a time when the outcome was not guaranteed, could have sent the justice of our state much earlier - says the Constitutional Court. Former students demand compensation for the Czech state as a moral one and received answers from Minister Válková that he would not comply with them, because she said there was no moral damage. They explain it this way - I quote now from Reflex magazine from January this year - as if the state were telling them: Be glad you were not convicted, it could have been worse. But it's like the state Snášelův the suit. It's not normal. I want to ask you, Prime Minister, whether you consider it normal, not the length of the trial, but the fact that they will not be compensated, whether you think it has occurred or the moral damage of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u27	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u28	Thank you. vážený poslankyně, . arch. Jiří Slezák, Ing . arch. Martin Laštovička and . arch. Zdeněk Hirnšal, as you have already said, former students of architecture in Brno, submitted a request to the Ministry of Justice on 8 August 2012 for compensation of non-property damages for an excessive length of legal proceedings. So it's a thing that is of course an earlier date, it didn't happen just now, and as you described it yourself, it's a case that went on in principle during the whole post-November period. With regard to this request, their applications were partially granted, each of them being satisfied with an amount of 87 thousand. Kč. This amount was found appropriate by the Ministry of Justice in view of the fact that the applicants had already been compensated under the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 11 October 2005, amounting to 5 thousand. EUR per person. According to my evidence from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry was based on an algorithm unifying the Supreme Court's opinion of 13 April 2011. As I was informed, applicants, in addition to higher cash satisfaction, requested an apology printed in the Mladá fronta Today. There was therefore no agreement and the applicants appealed to the court. The matter is under discussion at the District Court for Prague 2. The Justice Department has submitted its observations on the lawsuit. So far, according to my information, no action has been ordered on this matter. So much for the state of affairs from the point of view of the Justice Department. It's really complicated for me at this point in time to express my personal views here in a situation where there is a dispute between these three citizens and the Ministry of Justice. I must say that I consider the whole case very unfortunate for the Czech justice system. I think that the length of the trial is quite obviously disproportionate from the point of view of what was decided, at what time it was possible to reach a decision there, and I firmly believe that the matter will be resolved quickly by the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u30	However, I believe, Prime Minister, that it is possible in the Chamber of Deputies to tell the microphone whether you think these former students have suffered moral damage or not. If they've received material compensation, it says something. We can't say that money is more than morale. So I wonder if, on the one hand, there has already been some financial compensation, and I am not arguing whether sufficient or insufficient, from my point of view, is quite inadequate, but I was wondering whether you think they have suffered moral damage or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u31	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u32	Madam, I believe that every citizen of the Czech Republic, if his rights and obligations within the judicial system are decided for 25 years, no doubt has the right to claim that he has suffered moral damage. In any case, I think that the slowness with which this matter has been decided, the way we operate our judicial system clearly shows that something is not right. And I would agree with the claim that every citizen who gets into this machine and decides for so long on things that are fairly clear has suffered moral damage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u33	Thank you. That's how we finished the fourth interview. Mr Antonín Seďa, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the next steps of the government in Vrbětice, will give the fifth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister, a lot has been said about the ammunition warehouses in Vrbětice, Bohuslavice. I will last mention the meeting of the Regional Conference of Social Democracy in Zlín on Saturday. The petition committee also discussed in its public treatise a petition for the removal of all ammunition and dangerous materials from the premises of former military warehouses in the Cadastral of the villages Vlachovice and Vrbětice on the basis of a petition by citizens. I - just as you understand citizens who have a legitimate concern for their safety and the safety of their loved ones. That is why I would like to ask, Prime Minister, about the concrete steps your government will take to ensure that citizens' demands are met and that their safety is ensured. At the same time, I ask how in particular the government will advocate that such events do not occur at all in the future. Thank you for your specific answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u35	Thank you, Mr Seďa. I'll ask the Prime Minister for his opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u36	Thank you. Dear Member, I believe that the development of the entire Vrbětice case has already been discussed sufficiently here in the Chamber of Deputies. However, there is still a police investigation in this matter, and I firmly believe that in the future we will be familiar with its results. As far as the situation is concerned, preparations are taking place very intensively in the premises in Vrbětice so that the ammunition stored here can start to venture. A storage schedule is created. It is therefore expected that this ammunition will be exported in cooperation with the Army of the Czech Republic, with the assistance of the police, of course. Police of the Czech Republic will at the same time carry out checks on whether the ammunition being removed is safe for transport and further storage. [[15.10 hours]] So I can say that the government will pay maximum attention to the removal of ammunition, the transport of ammunition is carried out under maximum security measures and there is no threat to the security of citizens. The aim is therefore to transport the ammunition gradually from the premises in Vlachovice-Vrbětice so that the area is prepared for a total bailout after two explosions that occurred there. The government does not expect the site to be used for any storage of ammunition in the future. And as far as his future fate is concerned, after the end of the bailout, the question of the fate of the complex in Vrbětice will be the government, virtually. The Ministry of Defence deals with the municipalities concerned and with the Zlín Region. If we are talking about what needs to be done in the future, what needs to be done preventively, I want to say that the government has approved an analysis of the legislation and powers of the public authorities in relation to the handling of ammunition by civil entities. It is a material prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, and the aim is to adjust all the legislation in question on the basis of this analysis to tighten the rules and conditions for the handling of ammunition in the Czech Republic. It's weapons handling, ammunition, explosives, if necessary. The point is to clearly link the storage of ammunition in the Czech Republic with crisis planning. It's obvious there's gonna be a whole series of laws that need to be changed. The Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with other ministries, has the task of preparing the relevant proposals by the middle of this year, and then I assume that we would submit the proposals for discussion to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. I firmly believe that during 2015, we will be able to prepare and revise the relevant legislation in order to strengthen the control so as to increase the powers of supervisory authorities. At the same time, we need to strengthen the state's control capacity during 2015 to match the amount of ammunition and similar material traded in the Czech Republic. I think one of those conclusions that we have analysed is the fact that in recent years there has been significant capacity reduction on the part of the Police of the Czech Republic. As part of the cuts, tables were also reduced for police officers and police experts who were to control ammunition, weapons and ammunition in the Czech Republic. There is no doubt that there will also have to be a certain increase in these professional capacities within the structure of the Police of the Czech Republic. The aim is, therefore, to create measures and conditions so that the situation in Vlachovice and Vrbětice cannot be repeated, where, without sufficient control, an unprecedented high concentration of ammunition has been created in one place, namely ammunition which has been stored in private hands without the huge ammunition storage in private hands being sufficiently incorporated into crisis planning and without the components of the integrated rescue system being sufficiently prepared for the risks posed by such a large concentration of ammunition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u37	I thank the Prime Minister and the Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you two questions at the outset. The first one you mentioned here is ensuring that stored ammunition and hazardous materials are checked so that both transport and storage are safe for both public and security. The other is, and you also mentioned it, an examination of the specific personal responsibility for system errors that occurred in the case of the previously planned project of extra-voy ammunition logistics and then the gradual lease of ammunition stores to private companies. I am afraid, as has already been said in the media, that compensation may be required, and it would be fair to recover these costs from those who caused these problems. And one last thing. You mentioned here that the government doesn't expect the use of the ammunition storage facility, which is fine. However, I would point out that the Research Technical Institute - the Slavicín branching plant has certain skills that would be a shame not to be maintained from the point of view of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u39	I thank the honourable Member and the Prime Minister's supplementary reply. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u40	Thank you. You know, I understand that there may, of course, be impatience on the part of citizens who live in municipalities near the ammunition warehouse in Vlachovice-Vrbětice. I completely understand the wishes of the citizens of the surrounding communities to take the ammunition that is stored here as soon as possible. But precisely because the government wants to guarantee the maximum security of the entire process, it needs to be given sufficient preparation and sufficient attention, including the fact that the ammunition will be controlled before it is transported from Vlachovic and Vrbětice. I want to remind you that part of this ammo will, of course... it will be further handled by private owners. Part of this ammunition is likely to be stored in the capacities allocated by the State, namely in the locality of Květná. In any case, the State will recover the costs associated with this operation from the owners of this ammunition. Speaking of liability and future liability, it is necessary to realise that the primary responsibility is the responsibility of the private owner of this ammunition, which stored it in premises owned by the special purpose organization of the Ministry of Defence. This means primary responsibility for the state of the ammunition and for what happened, undoubtedly the owner of this ammunition, which was stored in the premises of Vlachovice-Vrbětice. However, the state as a guarantor of citizens' security must now proceed to eliminate any further risks, and we will proceed very carefully and carefully with a view, as soon as possible, to transport the ammunition and clear the space in Vlachovice and Vrbětice from this point of view. So much for your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Ladislav Velebný, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of significant market power, will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u42	Thanks for the word. Dear Prime Minister, according to the approved legislative work plan of the Government, the Government should discuss the amendment to Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and their misuse. Legal regulation of significant market power was adopted in 2009 and the main objective of this law was to define, for the purposes of competition protection, the substance of the abuse of significant market power and to create tools to prevent such practices. That's why I'm asking if there's going to be an extension of the law to suppliers. And here I would like to point out that in all European countries where the legal regulation of supplier-customer relations has been adopted, there is only one-way regulation. So, Prime Minister, I ask what stage this amendment is at and what we can expect from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u43	I thank Mr Velebný and ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u44	Thank you. Dear Member, the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Market Power has been drawn up by the Office for the Protection of Competition. I have submitted the proposal to the Government as Prime Minister, on behalf of my coordinating function towards the Office for the Protection of Competition. As has already been mentioned here, the purpose of the law is, inter alia, food protection, consumer protection, natural market environment. At present, the proposal is ready for discussion with the Government, with the delay of the hearing. [[15.20 hours]] The second February of this year should be held by the Council of Economic and Social Agreements. We have been asked by the social partners to discuss the draft law on significant market power before it is discussed in the government with the social partners. So we have interrupted the process of discussing the Government of the Czech Republic and we want to provide this possibility of consultation and expression to employers' representatives and union representatives. I assume that, after this tripartite negotiations take place, the government will return to discussing the law on significant market power, assuming that we could still get to it during February of this year. The proposal envisages maintaining the existing law on significant market power. It does not count on the regulation of other legislation. The subject matter of this regulation will be the relationship between suppliers and consumers of food. The draft law clearly defines the subject matter of the adaptation and the terms used and counts on so-called. mutuality, i.e. proposes that the issue of abuse of significant market power be dealt with in legislative terms both on the supplier's side and on the customer's side. This is therefore the current legislative form of the proposal. And I really suppose that in February, the government could get to discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member does not have an additional question and we will proceed to the seventh interpellation. Mrs Jana Fischerová will intersect Prime Minister Sobotka on the outlook for the tax system in the Czech Republic. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u46	Thank you very much for the floor and I will contact the Prime Minister about the tax system in the Czech Republic, the outlook. Specifically: Dear Prime Minister, your Minister of the Interior, Minister Milan Chovanec, said in the paper that if the Minister of Finance fails to save Babiš tens of billions of crowns, he will then propose an increase in taxes for companies and banks by 1 to 2 percent next year. So my specific question goes to a possible corporate corporation tax, which currently amounts to 19 percent. In my opinion, increasing corporate taxes, legal persons, is not worth it, because there are various threats, whether it concerns an increase in unemployment, further a deterioration in the competitiveness of domestic companies, the shift of companies into tax havens, etc. etc. My question to you, Mr President, is: Is the government really planning to increase corporate taxes? Thank you for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u47	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u48	Thank you. Madam, if you ask what the Government is planning in the tax area, I can refer very simply and transparently to the Government's programming statement and I can refer to the coalition agreement, where I think it is very detailed what the Government is going to do within its mandate in the tax area. If I deal with the link to the taxation of legal entities, then in the coalition contract there is a reference to the possibility of taking advantage of the sector tax in the range of about 4 billion. CZK reception of public budgets in case the coalition decided to compensate for the state budget's loss of income in case of a reduction in value added tax for certain defined items. This is part of the coalition contract, which concerns the possible introduction of sectoral tax. I'm just reminding you that sectoral taxes, i.e. taxation of certain parts of legal entities, in particular in the light of the response to budgetary problems following the financial crisis, has been introduced in a number of European countries in recent years. And as far as I know, to this day, for example. sector tax works in the form of higher taxation of banks and in neighbouring Slovakia. When we prepared the coalition treaty and the government's programming statement, we naturally discussed within the government coalition, which consists of three political parties - each of these parties ran with a slightly different programme - how to reconcile our views on further tax developments. Given that we have agreed to change the state's budgetary policy in priority, and we have agreed that we want to end the area cuts policy and that our aim is to promote economic growth, we have prepared a certain outlook for increasing public budget revenues, with the fact that at that first stage we want to try and identify all the possibilities of increasing tax collection in the Czech Republic without going to the flat rate increase. That is why the government coalition has decided to push through a number of legislative changes that should improve the fight against tax evasion and increase tax collection. Maybe I'll get to some of these changes. If it turns out that these measures are not effective enough, I consider it entirely legitimate for us to return to this subject within the government coalition and discuss how we can increase the revenue of the state, for example. By raising corporate tax a little bit. But such a proposal at the moment is not part of the government's agenda, it is not part of the coalition agreement and the coalition parties would have to agree on this procedure first. As regards the effort to increase tax revenue. I am convinced that there is a great scope for reducing tax evasion, but it is necessary to approve legislation that will enable the state to improve the fight against tax evasion. We're preparing a sales record bill. The aim is to register cash sales and gradually involve entrepreneurs in this system. This proposal, prepared by the Ministry of Finance, is before external commentary proceedings. This system should be effective at least in part in the Czech Republic from 1 January 2016. The second important legislation that we are now working on is the law on the proof of the origin of the property. This is a matter which can act significantly preventively against the legalization of income from tax evasion and crime. Another important law is the Gaming Tax Act and, naturally, we are also preparing an amendment to the Income Tax Act so that, under the coalition agreement, we will abolish the super-gross wage tax system and return to the standard income tax, with the fact that this income tax will have two zones in terms of taxation of natural persons. These are all the things we count on in the coalition agreement. We are counting on them in the Government's programming statement and I therefore assume that this year we would approve this legislation and should make a significant contribution from 2016 and 2017 to increasing tax collection in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u49	I thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive answer. Mrs Fischerová has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u50	Thank you for your reply to the Prime Minister. I'm just gonna make a statement. I thought of yesterday's afternoon discussion when we discussed pension reform and the possibility of stopping contributions to the second pillar. And since you, Prime Minister, have certainly had other serious negotiations, I understand that, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, or Minister of Finance Babiš, has said here - just the money will or won't, we'll sort it out somehow. So now that I've listened to your answer, I just remembered that you said that on the one hand, you admit that maybe there's an increase in the collection of corporate taxes when the money isn't found. Isn't that right? So I guess I just imagined your answer. And I know that by tomorrow, the ANO movement is supposed to be commenting on the coalition treaty, and maybe that's what's gonna happen. So I guess that's good enough for me now. That's how I ended up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u51	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u52	I would still like to respond, because this is not about possibilities or attempts, this is about implementing measures that have proved successful in a number of other countries within Europe, and when I talk about electronic records of sales, I can recall the case of Croatia, in combination with the receipt lottery case of Slovakia. Speaking of an electronic statement of value added tax, I can again recall the particular case of Slovakia. So we are trying to inspire countries that have achieved concrete results in action against tax evasion. And both Slovakia and Croatia have achieved concrete results in terms of increasing tax collection after they have managed to implement these measures. So I am convinced that a number of these measures will also have specific budgetary, positive budgetary effects. What we need is to manage the legislative process and the laws to approve this year so that they will become effective from 1 January next year. As regards the value added tax control report, legislation has already been approved there, i.e. Now all we need is for the measure to be implemented in practice. And it's not just the laws. I want to remind you that we have created a tax Cobra, i.e. an institution that is built on much better coordination of cooperation between police, tax administration, customs administration, prosecutor's office, i.e. To maximize the fight against large tax evasion, the fight against great frauds. I believe that this better coordination of state administration cooperation will also have concrete positive budgetary benefits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u53	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We will proceed to the eighth interpelation - which Mr Herbert Pavera withdraws, and we will go further, to the ninth interpelation. Mr Adolf Beznoska will also intersect the Prime Minister on tax matters. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The magic of the unwanted. It is obvious that Jana Fischerová and I are on the same side and are both concerned with the same subjects. Even from the subject under my name, it is clear that I wanted to ask the Prime Minister the same question. So I'm not gonna stand here for nothing, so I'm gonna ask you another question. You, Prime Minister, have signed a coalition agreement and have made a programming statement knowing that the Minister of Finance promised that he estimated a profit of around 200 billion on the state's accounts and improved tax collection. Then, after the debate in the House, he admitted that it was a pre-election joke, and he said it looked like about 100 billion. However, I think because I read today in the weekly Economist's interview with you that you are thinking of working in some way with the idea of increasing corporate tax or sectoral tax. And since you have been very comprehensive here, Mrs Fischerová, explaining how it is your custom, what has been going on, I would ask very briefly and very clearly: Will you, as Prime Minister and Chairman of the strongest coalition party, come to a meeting where you will revise the coalition agreement, with the intention of increasing corporate tax or introducing a sectoral tax?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u55	I thank Mr Beznosk and ask for the Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u56	Thank you. First of all, honourable Member, I am very pleased to say that this year, according to the calculations available to us, there will be a reduction in the overall tax burden, i.e. Furthermore, the tax quota lodged falls. When you look at the measures that our government has approved and put them in life, these are measures that, with regard to citizens, have undoubtedly a positive effect on their incomes as regards the people of the medium and low-income groups. Now I'm talking about tax burdens, I'm talking about tax rates - because we've reduced taxes. We reduced them to working pensioners, we paid them a tax discount, we reduced taxes to families with children, because we increased deductions to second and third children, we reduced the tax burden on pensioners and families with children, because we reduced the VAT to medicines from 15 to 10 percent. I think these are positive changes that the citizens of the Czech Republic have undoubtedly welcomed. So much for the question of tax burden. With regard to the debate in the coalition, I think there is certainly nothing wrong if Members are interested in how the debate on the coalition treaty is being held. We don't want and we don't plan on changing the coalition agreement. The gros is given by the government's agenda, what the government came forward with before the Chamber of Deputies, on the basis of which we received the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. The text was received by all Members before voting on the Government's statement of confidence. We have discussed the coalition agreement sufficiently, it has been well thought out, and there is no reason for us to change the text of the coalition agreement now, after a year. So, if you ask me, I, as Chairman of Social Democracy, am not going to negotiate a coalition agreement with proposals for its amendments. Primarily, we want to discuss how the individual provisions in the coalition agreement that we have agreed are being implemented. There are things that have been done, there are things that are being done, and there are things where unfortunately they have not started, and there we would like to agree on how to speed things up, how to improve things, to simplify, how to improve coordination between the various departments, so that we can actually implement the entire coalition agreement, as we agreed on it. So it's not something that should change any minute, it's part of the deal that was here at the beginning of the government coalition. And once again, I can only remind you that tax policy is quite accurately described there. In any case, I can certainly guarantee that, because I know safely that none of the coalition parties will propose it, in any case we do not count on increasing value added tax, we do not count on increasing the tax burden on medium- and low-income groups. It simply does not count on such a coalition in any way, and we retain the open possibility of a debate on sector tax in case the need to strengthen the revenue of the state budget has proved necessary in the coming years. This need may prove necessary in a situation where sufficient money is needed to finance public services in good quality, where sufficient money is needed for education, to support science and research, or, for example, to valorize pensions in the coming years. So there are objective needs for the good functioning of the state, the needs for sound economic policy, and there may be a need to go back to discussing tax rates. But at this point, I don't expect that kind of discussion. What I suppose is a debate on the speed with which we will implement individual measures against tax evasion. Since there is nothing left to wait for, the concepts are well known, they are tried and things need to be prepared and put into practice, organized within the tax administration, and here I think this is a topic for the coalition's discussion so that all these measures run fast enough and bring a positive effect for public budgets and to reflect positively already on the preparation of the state budget for 2016. This will really matter very much to us in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Beznoska with his supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u58	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Just a quick follow-up question. You mentioned the receipt lottery and Slovakia in your performance. My question is very short: You as Prime Minister, what is your opinion of the baggirl, in my opinion, with the receipt lottery?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u59	Prime Minister, what's your opinion on the bag? I beg your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u60	I don't think the receipt lottery can be pulled from the system in which it is organized in Slovakia. If you ask me what my opinion is about the bag with the register boxes, I'll tell you it's a shame the Czech Republic hasn't had them in ten years. The account lottery is part of the registration ticket system as it works in Slovakia. It is a system that allows for feedback for tax administration, and it is a very good incentive for citizens to require receipts to be interested in whether they receive a receipt when they purchase goods. And at the same time, by registering the receipts as tickets that are then drawn within the receipt lottery, it actually gives the tax administration a chance to control the reality of the reports that it receives from the registers. So it is a model that, in my view, complements the registration cash register system appropriately, improves the state's control capabilities and increases citizens' motivation to actually take over the receipt. I certainly wouldn't talk about baggage, because anything that helps us improve our tax collection in the Czech Republic is very useful, I think. I would also like to point out that, as far as tax fraudsters are concerned, they do not only harm the state, they do not only harm citizens, they do damage the state budget, but they also harm competition. After all, those who do not pay taxes have an unfair advantage over those who respect the laws and taxes in the state budget. I think that there is a need for equal, fair conditions here, and the state must contribute to this, among other things, by being able to enforce taxes, such as through a receipt lottery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u61	I thank the Prime Minister for his response to this interpelation. We will remain in the tax field as Mr Ladislav Šincl will interpel Mr Šincl on sector tax for banks, insurance companies and telecommunications companies. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I am not with Mr Beznoska and Mrs Fischerová from one side, which is why my view of the tax sector is a little different. Dear Prime Minister, the coalition agreement on the Government's programming declaration contains a number of commitments. Let me just give you a little selection. For example, it is about starting sustainable economic growth, creating new jobs, regularly increasing retirement for the elderly, introducing birth benefits to the second child, and so on and so on. Of course, all these government priorities cost something and something has to be paid off. Under his electoral motto, "Yes, we will arrange it," Minister of Finance Babiš promised that he could provide sufficient funds for all government priorities listed in the coalition agreement without further tax burden on ordinary taxpayers, small businessmen and, above all, without further increasing the state budget deficit by just collecting the existing taxes. I would very much like that, because government priorities are important, but it can happen in practice that the promises of the Minister of Finance will not be fulfilled and the reality will be different. There is already a serious debate on the existence of a risk of a lack of funds in the state budget. It has already been said here today. The possibility of addressing the financial needs of government priorities is the introduction of a so-called sector tax, which is a tax for large banks, insurance companies or telecommunications companies, which achieve multi-billion-dollar profits, which come from the Czech Republic, but end up abroad with their owners. That is why I would like to ask you how you view the possible introduction of this tax, which, in the event of a lack of finance for the fulfilment of government commitments, the coalition agreement and the government's programming declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u63	Thank you, Mr Šincl. I'll ask the Prime Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u64	Thank you. Dear Member, I think I have had the opportunity in the previous two interventions to describe the position in which the government is currently in. So I am based on the coalition agreement, the government's programming statement, and beyond that, I can point out that no one likes to raise taxes and is always much more pleasant if we can afford it in terms of budget and economic development, rather to reduce the tax burden. But the Czech Republic still has a budget deficit at the moment, although last year we managed to achieve significantly better management than the approved state budget forecast, even though we want to reduce the deficit further this year, we still have the deficit management of the state. In addition to ensuring the good functioning of the state and public services, the government's aim is also to gradually reduce the budget deficit. We would really like to see the share of public debt falling in gross domestic product in the coming years. This means that we are trying to do such a budgetary policy in order to slow the pace of the Czech Republic's debt. That is why I think it is quite legitimate for us to think about increasing the revenues of public budgets in order to look for ways to increase public budget revenues where the Czech Republic is clearly losing large financial revenues. I have already mentioned the priority that the government has here, so it is to plug holes in our tax system, to achieve better tax collection through absolutely specific bills that I was talking about a little while ago. That's the way we went, and now we have to drag her to the end, even if it's not easy, even if it's not popular, because it's obviously going to mean something new. It will be a new element within our tax system. It needs to be well prepared, explained to the public, explained to business entities, done in a way that will be as low as possible administratively demanding and technologically at the level. I think that's very important. If it turns out, and I am thinking of 2016 and 2017, in the mandate of this government, that these resources that we mobilize by combating tax evasion will not be enough to cover the necessary expenditures of public budgets, I think there is a possibility to debate sector tax. I just want to remind you that, of course, our countries are facing, like other economies, a significant capital drain abroad, precisely as a result of low corporate taxation. So much of the funds flow abroad without being used for investment and development needs here in the Czech Republic. I think that the possibility of a certain tax mark on some sectors of the economy, such as banking, is a legitimate way of further discussion in the event that measures in the fight against tax evasion do not provide sufficient funds, in case the savings that we are making in the operation of the state do not provide sufficient resources for its further operation. I am very pleased that, in addition to preparing measures against tax evasion and that we are already practically implementing some of them, we are also able to save in the classical operation of the state. I am also thinking about the issue of information technology and investment in this area. I am pleased that a number of resorts are trying to change the practice of past years, when a large part of the IT contracts, in particular, have been provided without sufficient and transparent tender procedures. Practice changes very quickly. As practice changes rapidly and the pressure from the government on selection procedures increases, it also succeeds in reducing operating costs. We are trying to find ways to secure state funding without having to raise some tax rates. If this is not possible, I think that one option is to increase corporate tax, either to increase the overall rate or to introduce a sector tax for one of the sectors, and, like Slovakia, higher taxation of banks could be the option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u65	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Šincl has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u66	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, for example, domestic banks and savings banks increased overall net profit by CZK 11 million year on year to CZK 64.3 billion in 2013. [[billions?]] In the eleven months of last year, the Czech banking sector made CZK 58.8 billion, only because the data for the whole year are not yet available. Instead of investing this generated profit from Czech citizens' wallets, their clients, in the Czech Republic, this profit from Czech bank daughters is taken out to their mothers abroad and the Czech state has absolutely nothing to do with it. There is a similar situation in the field of insurance and telecommunications. My question. Do you not think that the CZK 4 billion mentioned in the coalition agreement is not enough for these wealthy banking companies, insurance companies or telecommunications companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u67	Thank you, honourable Member. With a follow-up answer from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u68	I think it is widely known that the banking sector in the Czech Republic is stable. The stability of the banking sector was largely due to significant public sector investments in its restructuring and repeated privatisation. Thus, tax payers have had a significant share in the state budget in the last decade to stabilise our banking sector, the financial sector, and it would undoubtedly be useful from an economic point of view if funds from the financial sector were to return to the Czech economy as much as possible, whether in the form of loans or in the form of investments. Unfortunately, the ownership structure of our banking sector is that the most important financial institutions are in the hands of foreign owners, and therefore capital transfers are taking place, transfers of dividends to parent companies. I believe that the overall taxation of the financial sector in the Czech Republic is low and the introduction of a sector tax for the financial sector would not mean any competitive disadvantage for the Czech Republic, but could help in terms of mobilizing public budget revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u69	I thank the Prime Minister for his response to Mr Šincl's interpellation and we are likely to receive the last interview that Mr Josef Nekl will give, and he will interpel the Prime Minister on the TTIP agreement and the appearance of Deputy Minister Drulák in the European Union. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you with an interpellation related to the position of the Czech Republic in discussing the agreement on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, which is known under the abbreviation TTIP. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Drulák said at a conference in Brussels at the beginning of this week that the Czech Republic supports the agreement. That is why I am asking you to answer the following questions. First, did Deputy Drulák have a mandate to make such a statement? Second, who gave it to him? Thirdly, why does the working group at the Ministry of Industry and Trade meet to this agreement when the Czech Republic, according to Deputy Drulák, is clear that it supports the contract? Fourthly, as you can as a government, or as a ministry official can give such a bianco check, at a time when the exact content of the contract is unknown, and on a number of points that will have a major impact on all citizens of our state, such as the environment, food safety, chemicals regulation. Does this mean that even if the contract were finally negotiated so that it could endanger the health of citizens, the government of the Czech Republic would support it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u71	I thank Mr Nekl and ask the Prime Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u72	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to say that there's no bianco check. There is no bianco check by the Government of the Czech Republic, the Czech Government supports the negotiation of a treaty between the European Union and the United States. But if we are able and ready to support this treaty, it will depend on its specific form and its specific wording. So it is not a bianco check, but it is an active approach to negotiating this treaty. I think it is necessary to realise that today's world is changing, that there is a great effort to integrate economic units, and I think that the European Union should not be left out. This means that integration groups are being linked here, free trade zones are being created, and if the European Union remains a party to these tendencies in the long term, we will pay for this sooner or later in terms of our exports and our trade. Based on the analyses prepared by the Czech Government, in particular the Ministry of Industry and Trade, we believe that creating a common trading area between Europe and the United States would have a positive effect on the Czech economy. This means that it would lead to increased investment and would lead to the creation of new jobs. We believe that, and this analysis suggests that our economy is so competitive within the European Union that we would be able to take advantage of these advantages of the TTIP agreement in favour of further economic growth. However, there are parts of the treaty that raise doubts at the moment, and they need to continue their patient, careful and thorough negotiations. There is no way that we will agree with such a contract, which would, for example, reduce health standards for citizens of the Czech Republic. We will not agree with a contract that would mean a reduction in the standard of employee protection. We will not agree with a treaty that would not give us, for example, the same access for our companies, for European companies to the public procurement market in the United States as it is ready and as it provides Europe for US companies' access to the public procurement market in Europe. So there is undoubtedly a need for reciprocity and there is no doubt a need for emphasis on standards relating to the quality of life in Europe, as we have set them in the field of health protection, consumer protection, environmental protection, and should not result in the conclusion of this Treaty reducing the standards that are envisaged either by Czech or European legislation. However, in any case, we are ready to participate actively in the negotiations that are currently being conducted between the European Union and the United States, and we see really very interesting economic potential here if the transatlantic trade and investment agreement between the United States and the European Union were to be concluded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u73	Mr Nekl with his supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u74	Perhaps an opinion rather than a question. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. In a way, I am glad that you put it that way, but that, just as I have information from the European Parliament and Deputy Drulák did not say the only reason why we should support the treaty, and yet he said that we support it. This treaty is also criticised across Europe from different political positions. And Mr. Drulák's speech was rather ideological, because as the imperialist West used to be haunted, it is now haunted by Putinian Russia. Moreover, as you said yourself, this has not yet been discussed with the social partners. I am sorry that I am concerned about this Treaty, because we have some unfortunate experience of discussing the conditions of entry into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u75	I thank Mr Nekl and the Prime Minister's final reply. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u76	Thank you. Me, first of all, about the benefits. To what the conclusion of the deal might bring. There is undoubtedly a positive impact on the development of mutual trade and investment, the liberalisation of services, the elimination of customs duties on industrial and agricultural products, the elimination of non-tariff and regulatory barriers to trade. And once again, it is evident from the analyses available to us that the Czech economy would be able to use the conclusion of this treaty to further expand and to further grow. But I want to make a clear promise that nothing will be closed so that there is no public debate on this. I want to make a clear promise that the government will make sure that citizens are informed of all aspects of the forthcoming treaty. Naturally, the conclusion of this Treaty will also be subject to appropriate democratic mechanisms. This means that we do not want to negotiate anything behind the back of the citizens of the Czech Republic and with the information at our disposal, we believe that the benefits of concluding this agreement outweigh the potential risks. The potential risks must be reduced by the specific form in which the contract will be negotiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u77	I thank the Prime Minister not only for this, but for all the answers, and that concludes with the interpelation to the Prime Minister and we will continue with the interpelations to the various ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u78	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. So we'll continue by interpelling the members of the government. The first prize was drawn by Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who will interpel the Minister of Justice Helena Válková - which I do not see here, so I assume that the Member will probably read... Please, ma'am, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u79	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. The Minister announced in time that he would not be able to be present for serious work reasons for this interpelation, which I fully accept, which is why I am bringing it up with the fact that it will be answered in writing. It is the same subject with which I approached the Prime Minister, i.e. the compensation of three students of the Faculty of Architecture in Brno from 1989. I want to ask the Minister, and I will therefore want an answer to the question of why the Ministry of Justice has concluded that there has been no moral damage to these people. Secondly, I want to ask her, because during the 23 years of this dispute, despite all the courts, judges were very qualified and also very unqualified through the courts of all types. Since the unqualified work, the Constitutional Court's conclusion has been, at the same time, consistent with the Court of Appeal's view that, for example, the way in which the case was dealt with by the Court of First Instance is unacceptable. I therefore wonder whether the Minister will analyse who judges and how they have acted in this case and against those who have caused the state to or should, in my opinion, compensate these people 100% for the tools they will use to correct or correct these judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u80	I thank the Member and now please the second Member drawn in the order of Mrs Pecková, who will interpel the Minister of Education Chládek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u81	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Minister. Promises are supposed to be fulfilled at Christmas. The Ministry of Education has done the opposite! In autumn, it approved a ten-million-dollar grant for international courses for gifted high school students and cancelled before Christmas with the fact that the programme is elitist and that it is contrary to the principles of equal access to education. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no oil from our country, our country is not surrounded by a sea of fish, we have mined the silver, so our golden vein, our bonanza must be human resources, our children. And those talented ones should be especially spoiled, cared for and developed, because there is a chance for the whole society to move it forward in all fields of knowledge and action. The unique experts who grow up will also be a valuable export commodity, and investment in them will return to our country many times. Deputy Minister Fidrmuc is talking about more support for domestic projects, so I would like to ask the Minister what domestic projects it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u82	Thank you, Madame, and I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u83	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members, I would first like to say that it was not a subsidy system, because the said institution, which is a mediator for these online courses abroad, did not apply for this subsidy system for an unknown reason for me, but after the meeting that was in the Minister's office, the arguments that they put forward, so I liked the project very much and I thought that such a project could be in the Czech Republic. That is why the long-term cooperation agreement has been concluded, and if this agreement is not yet signed, neither party can, of course, regard it as the finals. In the course of the negotiations, you mentioned the Deputy Director came up with arguments that were very critical of the course offered, and I therefore asked him to meet with the aforementioned representatives of this mediator. The mentioned representatives of this mediator met with the Deputy Minister, and I had information that the doubts continued with the Deputy Minister, even more so, rather than explaining it, there was disproportionate pressure on him when he was being waved by some press release that if he did not sign the contract, this press release would simply go to all the columns where it is possible - from the President to the Embassy, from the House of Deputies to the Embassy. As far as the concept of education for gifted pupils is concerned, it hangs on the Ministry's website and is up to 2020. That's where you can look. Since I too personally find this situation unpleasant, the Deputy Minister has been tasked with offering these 150 students an alternative course free of charge. This offer also hangs on the web, it can be requested from the Deputy Minister. Some of these courses are in the Czech language, some have passages in English, some even offers that are there are not only Czech universities, but also foreign universities and free of charge. The problem of pupils who would like to apply to the course you mentioned, we are still dealing with the announcement of a fund for talented pupils from less wealthy families, where pupils of the course you mentioned can also apply. There is a requirement for pupils whose family income is below four times the minimum of life, which means that it is not only for the poorest area, but also for children from, say, low-income families, but certainly not the poorest. This will also create an opportunity for them to log in. In view of the doubts that are there, there is a requirement that we give it directly to children so that we do not give it through an organization. According to my information, which we learned later, this intermediary takes a contribution to its own salaries from these funds that the State would send, and there we could really get into conflict, as the Deputy Minister said, that there could be an uneconomical treatment of public funds. If you are interested, Madame, as well as in the nominal lists of courses, because of course there are a lot more courses, but those selected, I will ensure that the Deputy Minister sends you this list in writing and, at the same time, send you a fund for gifted pupils, which will also be offered to those who choose an alternative other than our offer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u84	I thank the Minister and ask the honourable Member if she wants to ask an additional question. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u85	It won't be a question. I will just confirm that I would really like to have those lists and, above all, I would be interested in those projects, that is international, because that is what we want, and that is what this project was worth, that it was international. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u86	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u87	I'm sure I agree with you completely, Madame. I think there's no contradiction between us, but I'm sure you understand my situation, too, that we can't get into conflict with the law if someone in a high position claims serious arguments and the other party unfortunately didn't disprove them. But we're going to do everything we can to-- we're going to say it's not a waste of grain, so I say it's not even a waste of talent, so we're going to do the best we can to get talented kids to attend courses beyond their own teachings. And one more piece of information for you. The advantage of these offers is that they are even linked to framework education programmes, which is not the case with the programme you mentioned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u88	Thank you and now, please, next in line, and this is Mr Leo Luzar, who will interpel the absent - no, already present - Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u89	Madam President, Minister, honourable members of the government, you know that it is the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, and on this anniversary we are confronted with the efforts of some important politicians to interpret the history of World War II a little differently. You all know the performance of Prime Minister Jaceňuk, to whom our President Zeman has boldly expressed himself, for which he is grateful. Unfortunately, he was probably the only one. The last update is the statement by Polish Foreign Minister Grzegorz Schetyna, who, on a direct question, was it not a mistake not to invite to celebrate the liberation of Auschwitz's Russian president, who is the heir of the Soviet Union and the Red Army, directly replied: It must be said that Auschwitz freed the 1st Ukrainian front. They were Ukrainian soldiers who opened the gates of the Auschwitz concentration camp. Here I would like to note that the Red Army, during World War II, called queues according to their location, not according to the nationality of the soldiers who served there, and so the first Ukrainian front was originally called Voronezhsky, the 4th Ukrainian front originally South. This is, in my opinion, either gross ignorance or intentionally reduce the importance of the Red Army in the end of World War II with a view to the current things. The same is happening in the Baltic countries that are already members of the European Union, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, when SS troops are publicly celebrated, where they are parading in SS uniforms and proclaiming these fascist slogans. But aside from the sacrifices made on both sides, the victims of the Jewish people who died in these lands cannot be left behind. And here I would like to remind myself - excellent. [[Alerted on time.]] So I'll only ask three questions to the Minister with permission. Will Czech diplomacy respond to open efforts to change the history of World War II with important policies? What were the instructions not to vote on the UN resolution against fascism? Is this the intention of foreign diplomacy of the Czech Republic and the European Union to ignore speeches and actions trying to humiliate the credit of the Soviet Union for defeating fascism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u90	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u91	Thank you. Have a good afternoon. I would like to assure the House that the Czech Republic respects the results of World War II and highly appreciates the role of citizens of the former Soviet Union, including its successor states such as Russia, Ukraine and others, in the liberation of Czechoslovakia from Nazism. I think this position is constantly present in all the positions of today's government and in the whole foreign policy of the Czech Republic. I would just like to remind you that we are currently preparing an international forum for the 70th anniversary of the liberation of concentration camps under the name Let My People Live, which will take place in Prague and Terezín on 26th and 27th January, now, next week. At the same time, the Czech Republic will commemorate the liberation of Czechoslovakia by the allied troops, the 70th anniversary of this liberation, and of course we are watching how our neighbours and other partners stand up to these anniversaries. As far as the Ukrainian Government is concerned, as we have the government's agenda, its programming statements, as we also monitor the activities of Ukrainian politicians, and I would even say the opinion of public opinion in Ukraine, so I do not think there are grounds for concern about any attempts to revise the results of World War II. With regard to the results of the elections, the last parliamentary, and the most extreme, radical right-wing groups, the two most ambitious, only one has made their way, and at this point I do not think that those views in Ukraine have any way, that they have any rise or that the number of extreme attitudes has somehow increased. For example, the march that is held regularly and which was held recently and which reminds of the activities of some extreme associations from World War II, so the number of participants has actually decreased again year after year, and it is not that the situation has developed in any way dramatically. Similarly, I would evaluate the situation in Latvia and Estonia. There I think it's a socially marginal group of people who restrict their activities to the spring annual march associated with putting wreaths. As far as I know, this is not supported by the Latvian or Estonian Government, and I assume that if this were to happen, that the government would make any relevant conclusion. As for that statement that you mentioned, or that performance by Prime Minister Jaceňuk for German television, I know there was some comment from the Ukrainian side that referred to the fact that the context of the performance was - I don't know - disrespected and it was interpreted in some way. I quite feel no need to add anything to it or to interpret what has been said from the Ukrainian side, because it was a television show and it is not for me to continue to discuss it or discuss the explanation of the Ukrainian side. For me, what is the policy of the official representatives of Ukraine is crucial, and here I believe there are no indications that anyone would start some kind of revision or transcription of World War II. As for some of these events, or if there are any insignia and so on, I can assure you that there are things that I would not like in this regard, I am discussing with the respective partners on the Ukrainian side. Because I point out that in the Czech public opinion, similar insignia or the use of certain things that remind us... that it simply finds a rather unfortunate response and that it is a matter that is judged serious here. So Ukrainian partners I draw attention to how this is sensitively perceived on the Czech side. But I do believe that this is really marginal at this point, and I certainly do not see the slightest attempt to defend it or to revise the results of World War II in any way. And maybe still, if I'm free...? [[You don't have him anymore.]] I'm out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u92	I'd like to ask you a follow-up question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u93	Minister, I'm going to ask you a written answer to the three questions I asked at the end. I want to use that minute. There were 93,000 Žid in Latvia during the war, 92,000 were slaughtered. There's a thousand left. Now the march that's going on there is a mockery to these victims. The Izraelec protested against it. We stay calm, we just close our eyes and say she didn't support it, but that it happens in agreement, in silent consent, that's the second thing. I think that should not happen in a democratic country, a member of the European Union. And you should respond diplomatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u94	I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u95	Yes. I have already said here that when I meet with representatives, in this case I have mentioned Ukraine, so I am also talking to them about things that are perceived sensitively in the Czech public, but since on the other hand I find understanding and understanding of this, I do not feel that anyone would have a tendency to defend such excesses. I understand that even if we look at our neighbors, I don't want to name them now, so we will find that there are some extreme forms of political movements, and unfortunately, lately, the danger seems to be growing. It is a matter that concerns me personally very much, and it is, as you know, caused by a rather dramatic situation, even in the south of Europe. So these connections are uncomfortable. It's a serious matter. So if you're concerned about these tendencies, I'm not surprised. This is a big problem in the present world and in Europe today. But I'm just pointing out that we meet him in a number of countries and probably, I just want to say that these assholes or public fences - then I'd have to take into account that sometimes it's a problem even closer to countries, where it's also a bit difficult. I actually share your concern, I just think that the problem is that it is a political challenge for all of us who want a democratic struggle to be preserved in our countries to face it. And I think there are a number of tools that lead to that. The way I see it, we need to look for allies in other countries that will go together in this alliance against similar tendencies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u96	Thank you, Minister. Now please take the next step, and that is Mr Zahradník, who will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u97	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with the following question. You expressed yourself last year in the sense that you - or your ministry - will apply under the Operational Programme Environment to obtain 9 billion. CZK for so-called boiler subsidies from European funds. It's supposed to be 150 thousand, according to your words. replaced boilers, with the fact that a significant part of this volume should go to the Moravian-Silesian region, which, as we know, is the most affected. To this end, the first and second class boilers ceased to be sold last year and only boilers from the fourth emission class above will be allowed to be sold from 2018 onwards, with officials applying for a review of the solid fuel boiler from 2017 onwards. If the operator does not submit this review report, he shall risk a fine of up to 20 thousand. Crowns. So I'm going to ask you two questions. What fuels do you expect for these innovative boilers, respectively. what fuels should be a priority for these innovative boilers? Secondly, when you intend to present the first calls for this programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u98	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u99	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, honourable Member. Thank you for the question that is really very up to date these days, because it is precisely the last open issue under the Environment Operational Programme 2014 to 2020 that continues intensively with the European Commission, and the last open issue is the issue of the so-called large-scale boiler subsidies. I'm confirming what you said, confirming the amount. It really should be 9 billion. CZK from priority axis number 2, i.e. improving air quality. We are in the last negotiations that are being held and that will continue to happen in the coming days. I had my last phone conversation this morning with my colleagues at DG Regio. The situation is currently such that the European Commission makes the provision of this money subject, according to the latest information, to compliance with several requirements. First of all, it is very likely that at this point only the fifth emission class boilers will be involved. It is not explicitly stated what fuels will be, and according to the information we have, so are the last very modern boilers, automatic coal burning boilers that meet the fifth emission class, but so far there are few. This means that there will not be explicit determination or exclusion of any fuel, but that the boilers will have to meet the emission class and will also have to reduce emissions not only of dust microparticles, which are mainly concerned, but also of CO2 emissions. Your second question. Today, of course, it is a question of the European Commission's general approach to operational programmes in the Czech Republic, so that has already been discussed and will be, but we assume that if everything goes well, following the approval of this operational programme, which is among the two most prepared, the first calls should sometimes be written at the end of the second quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u100	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u101	Thank you. First of all, it is clear that this is going to be a great pressure on biological fuels, on biomass. So my first question is whether you are working with the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure sufficient production of biofuels for these boilers in the given territory. The second question concerns securing funding. So if you put out a call in the second quarter, it's possible that they could already be backed up in 2015. However, Minister, we know that in the budget of your chapter in the state budget, you do not have any money budgeted for the 2014 to 2020 programming period, which means that if you want to transfer it backup from last year, where there is probably some rest, then you may have problems with that when you bill the entire subsidy programme at the end of 2020. [[Prime Minister, I'm sorry, your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u102	I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u103	We also cooperate with the Ministry of Agriculture in general on this matter, not only over specific regions, but in general more about the useability of so-called biodegradable municipal waste. In this case, this is a different question than fuel for these boilers, I must admit. From the point of view of funding, I want to assure you that, firstly, there is another - it may not have fallen before - the structure of funding than in the Environment Operational Programme 2007-2013. This means there is a much smaller amount of money from the state budget, there is a co-financing of 85 per cent of European resources and 15 per cent of the applicant, so there is a much smaller burden on the budget and on the resources from the State Environmental Fund. So we're really not assuming in any way that there should be any load this year. Experience with the boiler subsidies we already have simply leads us to believe that it is always a matter of certain inertia for several months, so we assume that the first demands, even if they were advance payments, will come in 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u104	Thank you. Now next in line and this is Mr Zlatuška, who will interpel the Minister of Education Chládek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u105	Dear Minister, in the press release of the MŠMT, on 29 July 2014, you announced the decision to support the study of talented students at the CTYOnline Centre for Talented Youth at Johns Hopkins University. You also communicated your decision by letter No.: MŠMT-3043712014-1 dated 10 September, the day after the Government's meeting to support gifted students. Follow-up to this by your Deputy Hulínský on your behalf in letter No.: MŠMT-31 780/2014-11 of 23 December informed about the revision of the decision and cancellation of talented students of the promised support. In the justification of your review is information about unacceptable high costs, it is here among others.: "The above-mentioned John Hopkins University online course is based on a subsidy of over 20 thousand. Kč." This is compared with the costs in Czech courses with the information that "to similar courses organized by universities in the Czech Republic in the presentation form, the state budget contributes about 4-5 thousand. CZK per pupil." The next paragraph also presents the TALNET programme as an example. The website of the TALNET programme, i.e. the CZ.2.17/3.1.00/31165 programme, states that it supported the participation of 430 pupils from the Ministry's money for a total cost of 8,43 million. Kč. I graduated from math, and divided by 8.43 miles. 430 participants, I get with precision to two valid digits result coincidentally just 20 thousand. CZK per participant. However, the result of this two-digit division operation was only 4-5 thousand for your officials. I would like to ask for a description of the mathematical operations by which division will give this ministerial result, not the result of the usual mathematics. In connection with the planned introduction of compulsory math graduation, I also allow myself to ask for information on the use of normal arithmetical operations giving the result to me, or whether it will require the knowledge of numerical tasks which are both beyond my qualifications as a math, so even the calculator could not calculate them. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u106	Ambassador, I'm really sorry, but there are other colleagues here. I'm asking the Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I am a little embarrassed, because even if I listened carefully, I understood about every third sentence. So if I could just ask - less gossip and more articulate, because then I can't answer everything. As far as your question is concerned, at least I understand from those sections, the first part concerns the question that I have already answered here, so I refer to my answer to the previous question. As for the mathematical and arithmetic steps of officials, you will be answered in writing because I did not count on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u108	Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u109	In other words: A simple division of two numbers is above the possibility of not only officials but a minister who wants to prepare mandatory mathematics graduation. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u110	I'm asking the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u111	And I stress that my question was not about the allocation of funds to the programme, only the result of the division.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u112	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u113	I am very glad that, Mr Member, was not concerned with this issue of the programme because you would be in conflict of interest because you are Vice-President of the organisation. And the second thing, Mr. Ambassador. It's nothing like the Minister's choice, the division, it's under his discernment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u114	I ask another Member, Mr Farský, who will interpel the so far absent Minister of the Interior of Chovanec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u115	Thank you for the floor. I would like to raise a question to Mr. absent Home Secretary - the Minister of the Interior already present, welcome - to the oldest unnegotiated press in the House, which is press number 42, which this week saw an important jubilee, when just one year had passed since the first reading. And I would like to ask you, as is customary for me, Mr. Minister, what is the current stage, what can we look forward to, when does he get here? And on that point, I would note that if it could be enforced as quickly as possible, I think that it might not even be necessary, as has been said recently in several interventions, but it has been repeated in the media, raising taxes. I think this is exactly the press that can bring billions of savings by spending money more efficiently as it did in Slovakia. So my question is when will I be relieved of this burden and this press will be ready for discussion in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u116	I thank you, and I ask the Minister for a response. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u117	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not going back to that history, that's what we're doing here almost every interview, I'd probably just inform my colleague and the rest of you about moving on. We were assigned from the Coalition Council to prepare an impact study for this law, with the Ministry of the Interior addressing on 21 January other central administrative bodies and other public authorities to carry out an impact assessment with a comprehensive amendment within their remit. After receiving this information, we assume that this impact study should be completed by mid-March. If this impact study is positive for the so-called comprehensive amendment, which was in charge of a team of Members headed by Mr Vondráček of the ANO movement, this text should be put in the Chamber of Deputies. This means that this text should be available by the end of March, then I assume that the Coalition Board will assess the impact study and decide whether or not this comprehensive amendment will still be amended. The final text, Mr President, I would like to tell you, has also been finalised with the reconstruction of the State, and the final text, which has left as a request for an impact study, has therefore also been agreed by this non-profit sector with the fact that it is sufficient. Let's see how this impact study turns out. On the subject of tax increases, I would, if you don't mind, say a few words about that. I was merely saying that the government program and coalition agreement generate new necessary expenses and that we will want to see in the middle of this year if the Ministry of Finance will be able to obtain these revenues. And if not that we would like to return to the year-old debate, that is, to the debate before signing the coalition agreement, when we proposed an increase in taxes. This means either we will be able to communicate with the Ministry of Finance sometime in the middle of this year that the funds are secured, or we have said, let's go back to a year-old discussion about raising taxes. I wasn't explicitly talking. I was merely saying that it was a vision of social democracy to ensure the need for some 40 billion. to finance the state for next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u118	Thank you and I ask Mr Farský if he wants to ask a question. He wants, please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u119	Thank you. The bill itself passed several committees, all resolved by interruption. One of them adopted the final resolution, which was last June or late May on the Constitutional Legal Committee, and it concluded on what the resulting proposal should look like so that he could return to the House. If the information does not deceive me, then in the resulting proposal, which has now been sent to RIA, ČEZ is exempted as a company to which the register of contracts would not be subject, while invoices and orders for which the possibility of publication is automatic, that is to say, non-cost-free. I want to ask if the information is correct and why the departure from the conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Committee, where I still had a chance to participate in the decision-making, why it happened. Well, I wouldn't ask in an interview, but I'm afraid I'm learning the information in very unofficial ways, and I'm not even getting to the meetings. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u120	Thank you. I beg the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u121	It's easy to help. So in order to get the lyrics straightened out, I'll have that text sent to you, my colleague. If there is an interest in the Chamber of Deputies, I will have it sent to all Members in their e-mail boxes. I hope it's not considered unsolicited mail. I do not think it is in this model, as you said, on the other hand, it is a comprehensive amendment of the three Members headed by Mr Vondráček. Again, the final text was also consulted with the Reconstruction of the State, which was very active in this matter. The final text I think you could have within two days in your mailbox, and then we can meet at it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u122	Thank you for your answer. Next is Mrs Pěnčíková, who will interpel the Foreign Minister Zaorálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u123	Hello, thank you for your word. I'll be brief. On Monday, Deputy Minister Petr Drulák spoke at a conference in Brussels for the adoption of an agreement on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether these words have been spoken with your knowledge and consent, or who has given Mr Drulák a mandate for such an expression. And if he didn't have a mandate to make that statement, I personally consider it to be his grave misconduct, and I wonder what the Deputy Director will bear for it. And the second question. How can he even say such an opinion if the final form of this Treaty is not yet known? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u124	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u125	Thank you. Good afternoon again. I believe, as far as I know, what the Deputy Minister said only that the Czech Republic supports the negotiation of the TTIP Treaty. I would like to point out that this negotiation is taking place on the basis of the mandate given to the European Commission to negotiate. The mandate of the European Commission is publicly known. And I don't think anybody understands the mandate by saying it's some kind of automatic consent to what's going to be the result of the negotiations. That's the only thing we can sign up for today. [[16.40 hours]] Of course, I wish that these negotiations would also be conducted as transparently as possible in public terms. At this point, we know that such a method has been chosen and that the content of individual chapters is published on the European Commission's website. Information about the results will take place due to the tradition of negotiating similar contracts in a very high standard way, as it will be kept informed about how the negotiations are developing. You probably also know about the way that they decided to set up the so-called. reading rooms, reading rooms, where national government officials will be able to learn about how these negotiations are progressing. It is a relatively very non-standard procedure chosen for the first time in this way, there is nothing similar in history. It is precisely to give as much information as possible to the public about what is happening around this Treaty. It may also be at the expense of the fact that Europe has weakened its position a bit here, because it actually tells the public in advance what opinions it will defend. I can assure you that the Czech Republic is signing just under the condition that the negotiation of such a contract is in no way linked to the European Party's retreating in such matters as environmental protection, labour legislation, consumer protection, social state settings or sanitary regulations. I can assure you that no one agrees to reduce for example. chemical industry standards. We do not agree with the release of chlorinated chickens or genetically modified foods or beef-treated hormones. This means that when I talk about these issues with politicians, or when it is discussed in the negotiations between ministers, there is a united position here that such negotiations cannot in any way result in a fall in the level of public protection standards in the various areas I have listed here in Europe. However, this is a difficult journey. In order for this agreement to actually meet expectations, it will be quite a very difficult process, and I believe that this process will be far more transparent than it was in the past is the right thing to do. And I repeat, the agreement that exists at the level of the Czech Government that the Commission can negotiate does not mean at this point that we still know what the outcome will be and how we will be dealing with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u126	Thank you. The Member is not interested in asking the supplementary question, so I will ask the next one, this is Mrs Matušovská, who will interpel Mr Ťok's Minister of Transport. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would like to ask you about the information that was heard on the Audit Committee last week, that the State will get to the documents and technical details on the operation of the current toll system after 31 December 2016. The same day the contract with its supplier, Kapsch, ends and from 1 January 2017 a new system will start to work. On Sunday, however, the Managing Director of Kapsche, Mr. Karel Černý, said that all documentation including data, hardware and software has the current owner and toll system operator, the Ministry of Transport, as well as ŘSD. Your Deputy Minister, too, at the 10th meeting of the Supervisory Committee on 9. 10. said - quote: The software and toll gates are owned by the state. Own management of this software is a very complex matter. The Ministry of Transport tries to penetrate the software, into the installation mode so that it does not happen that the company Kapsch terminates its operation on 31. 12. 2016 and the Ministry of Transport will not have any software and the system could collapse. Because nowhere is it said that if we have toll gates and software available, the system will continue to go, because the human factor is very important there. End of quote. Therefore, Minister, as rapporteur of the Supervisory Committee, I am asking whether you can now tell me how it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u128	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this question, because I really said at the meeting of the Supervisory Committee that the complete dossier, the one that we can use to operate the system, will be given up to 31. 12. 2016. On the other hand, I must admit that the statements made by the representatives of Kapsch are true to the extent that they have given us all the documentation they have written in their contracts and which they should have given us. However, it is documentation as if it were instructions for use. So we know exactly that if we press one keypad or another that does it in the system, but we don't understand the system, and we can't configure the system. That means, if we have any change there, we have to ask Kapsch and do those things through him. That means, we really can't try out the system today under existing contracts and make changes so that we may be able to take over and run it ourselves. We also have the source codes for the system. They're locked in the vault at the Department of Transportation's security department, saying that if we try to unplug them, Kapsch's guarantees fall and all the guarantees for the system to go - they won't go to Kapsch, but they'd be at the Ministry of Transport, especially at ŘSD. So we're in a situation where we can try - or I thought we should have a chance to try out how the source codes work and if we can go into that system. Basically, we can't, because the daily billing is about 30 million and it only seems dangerous to us for an hour. So, after we get the first results from a group that actually deals with another myth, I want to enter into negotiations with Kapsch about whether they would really give us a fair way of providing documentation and information that would help us in the next steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u130	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member. She does not want to ask an additional question, so I will ask another one, which is Mrs Nováková, who will interpel the Minister of Education, Mr Marcel Chládek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u131	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, once again I am returning to the problem referred to twice today, it is basically some abuse of the pupils' trust, namely, to imagine it, it is the pupils, for example, the quints, I specifically know one of the disabled, because he is from my home grammar school. These students believed the Minister's promise that if they put their own work into it, they put money in it, it was over 5,000, that the rest would be paid by the Ministry and they would be able to participate in the project of the Centre for Talented Youth. Please note that John Hopkins University has been on our educational market since 1979. She's working with 41 grammar schools. And now, in fact, those kids got an answer from the grown-ups, from the minister that the word doesn't apply. I may understand that it wasn't entirely out of your will, but, Minister, here I think it's more important that you don't somehow betray the word you gave to those students than that something doesn't like any of your undersecretaries. And then I'd have one more question, if I may. It is extremely important that we take care of pupils with special educational needs, but it is equally important that educators have good methodological materials to seek out talented pupils. Since I have not yet found this in the further education of teaching staff on offer, I would like to ask if you are considering such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u132	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u133	Thank you, Madam President. honourable Members and honourable Members, on your question. I didn't deal with the students mentioned by you, so I couldn't even promise them anything. I dealt with the organization's representatives, and there I promised them we'd do our best to support it. The fact that they've been in the market for a long time is true. And the truth is that, in the long run, the ministry has been reaching out to some kind of subsidy, and the state has never supported this activity in the past, and I had good will to support this activity. As they say, for the sake of the beggar. Because then when you have a situation where you really can't give a minister an order to sign something for serious reasons, and of course those reasons have been mentioned here, the students you talked about - the answer was previous, but I repeat - we offer some alternative solutions, either in two ways - either a free offer of other courses of a similar nature, or if they insist on something like that, a fund is opened to support gifted young people up to four times the number of children whose family doesn't exceed four times the minimum of life, but not just for this particular course, but for any course they choose. So the possibility here is for children who are also logged in, which will belong to, say, above-standard financially secure families, and they pay college tuition in some of the schools they apply for, so I don't think that's gonna be such a problem. Now, about the other part of your question. You asked me what the whole area of talented education was based on. One of them is the 73/2005 Decree on the education of children - students with special educational needs and children - pupils, students with extraordinary talents. Of course, there is a whole passage that describes how to follow it. This is followed by another decree 55/2015. Our goal, of course, is also to provide methodological assistance, and we expect to work with teachers in this strategy as well as helping talented people. We often get into a situation where our system has not been able to support enough talented students in the past. I'm going to give an example of when the parents of a pupil who was four years old and something came to me, and we couldn't get him to primary school, even though he was intelligent enough. He had a measured intelligence quotient of 150. And the 150 just because it didn't measure any more, the tests for the kids. Our system simply couldn't put this child into the system so that he could be offered alternatives and not stunted. I had to make a ministerial exception. I don't think that's a good thing. We should work this out systemically. I agree with you that we should create a system like this, and this debate here yesterday was probably about two hours of inclusion, and inclusion isn't just about helping children with some disability and children who have unfortunately or have bad luck that something prevents them from accessing mainstream education, but also helping those gifted. But, of course, Czech education has a significant disability in this long-term, and I believe that we will be able to straighten it out. Of course, this includes the methodological leadership of teachers, because it is teachers who should work with and care for talented pupils in the mainstream.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u134	Thank you and I see that the honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u135	After all, I would like to focus my attention on this project, which is based essentially on what I have heard from teachers, de facto at a lower university level led by the project, so this project Talnet, which I have only heard about so far as it should replace, so if it is a comparison, we will certainly follow it with colleagues and colleagues and we will ask students how they can compare it, so we may also have an opportunity to compare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u136	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u137	Thank you. I will only add to this: the vast majority of those courses offered for gifted pupils are of course identical, so they can be similar. One of the moments that might be on that offer, it's not just one, there's about 25 of them in that offer, which are similar, not the same, but similar. They're processed by our colleges. Some are, one of the problems, some are needed in Czech, but some there also have those English passages, English parts. But just because if one of those students didn't choose this offer, we're offering the alternative, the support of the fund, that means for those kids who won't be able to pay for it, or their family, we're offering them this fund. We find it a more systemic solution than to choose one activity, because we could get into a situation, and we also have a few letters that someone is writing to us why we support this particular activity, but there are a number of them. But I can definitely tell you now that we cannot find the same and identical course, but we are also working on preparing within the framework of the funds that could be put into this activity, that is, for example, the sum of CZK five million should go to the fund for talented pupils and CZK five million we would also like to provide universities with the development of their programmes and improve their programmes so that they are alternative both within the Czech language and the same course in English. Another thing that follows up there is, of course, much more to promote education in English at universities, which is of course in the offer, and there is no such interest among foreign students as it might be. So the steps are a lot more. And if you want, we'll send you the list as well as your colleague, because it's not just the one type of course you were talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u138	Thank you and I am now giving the floor to Mr Seďa, who will interpel the Vice-President of the Government, Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u139	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. vážený Vice-President of the Government, the amendment was not approved during the state budget debate, which was intended to address the financing of the Czech Republic's space activities in relation to the European Space Agency this year. I understand that this has been a non-systemic solution and that it will not be suitable for years to come, but I would therefore like to know how you, as Vice-President of the Government for Science, Research and Innovation, will stand up to this problem. I just want to remind you that, for the next year, the implementation of the projects under the European Space Agency should have been earmarked for these projects by our country's contribution of CZK 355 million. Without this contribution it is not possible to involve Czech companies in these projects and thus fulfil the national space plan. In my view, there are two ways to deal with this, and now I mean not only this year, because I assume that money will be found in the state budget, but for years to come. The first and more transparent for the public is the creation of a new chapter of the state budget for the space agency of the Czech Republic, or add a sub-chapter of the same name to the chapter of the Ministry of Transport. Perhaps there is also a solution that the Prime Minister also supports, namely the establishment of the Office for Science and Research, which would then be in charge of financing the European Space Agency project. I would like to ask, Mr Vice-President, if you will address the systemic financing of the space agency of the Czech Republic and the financing of the ESA project. And if so, which option do you prefer? Thank you for your specific answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u140	Thank you and I will ask the Vice-President of the Government to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u141	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, this question should rather be directed towards the Minister of Transport or the Minister of Education and Sports, as the issue of the national space agency and space activities is primarily entrusted to the Ministry of Transport, on the basis of a government resolution from previous years. In my opinion, this non-systemic change took place on the initiative of the Ministry of Transport, because until then it was within the competence of the Ministry of Education. Both amendments were rejected in the third reading of the draft State Budget Act. And from our point of view, in terms of issues of science, research and innovation, international cooperation, and here and for contributions to ESA, the Ministry of Education is fully and competently responsible, which pays compulsory contributions of approximately CZK 300 million each year. [[17,00 hours]] This appropriation also covers the reimbursement of certain contributions in certain optional programmes. Another part of the optional contributions, i.e. contributions to optional programmes, are paid by the Ministry of Transport from its funds, in the order of tens of millions of crowns. But these funds are not for the activities of science and research. It is therefore not possible to support them from the budget of science and research and it should be noted that not all ESA activities are for science and research. They are far more complex and difficult to divide in this way. As regards the extension of the number of budget chapters. I believe that there is no reason to expand them, because the Science and Research Support Act defines the possibilities and conditions in which science and research can be supported. And if any ministry is not satisfied with the budget chapter for science and research, it can provide dedicated support in cooperation with the Technological Agency. There is, of course, the problem that the Ministry of Transport has shifted a large proportion, or actually the vast majority of the money it had on R &amp; D, essentially to the Technical Agency, and it should then mediate this money to them, and it must be those activities that are in line with national research priorities, as approved by the government. It has to be said that space research is not an isolated area, especially in today's multidisciplinary world, so we can find there from new materials, ICT, things that concern the production and accumulation of energy, etc. It's very wide and it's hard to say it's some sort of isolated area. At present, the law also defines precisely the ways and the timeline of how the budget is prepared, and it is therefore essential that it be followed by all the chapters. We believe that the national contribution to ESA is sufficient. Research institutions can deal with activities financed by ESA on their own. Optional programs for which the Ministry of Transport tries to obtain funds from science and research are not always activities for science and research. So that's where we get into the situation that it's not being prepared, and from the perspective of budgetary responsibility, we can't issue a bianco check when we say "yes, we'll give you money" if we don't know how much of it or if everything goes to science and research. As far as the national space agency is concerned, it has not yet been established. So if this happens, it is entirely within the competence of the Ministry of Transport, as well as the financing of these programmes. Of course, we'll deal with the Minister of Transport. Now the Deputy Minister will be changing there, so I assume that we will be in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport looking for a solution that will be meaningful. It is clear that there is also interest in many Czech companies to continue and apply to this program. It is also obvious that part of the funds could be found within the Technological Agency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u142	Thank you. And I ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u143	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Vice-President of the Government, thank you for your reply. However, I think that in general it can be said that the actual distribution of both activities and funding is not only non-systemic but also very difficult to cooperate with each other both ministries and costly because of the loss of time and administration. I have already suggested several times that expenditure on science and research be combined and that it be a separate chapter, or that individual ministries, for example. The Department of Defense had that option. Anyway, it didn't work. Otherwise, I wanted to interpel the Minister of Transport on the same matter. I will contact the relevant ministers in writing on this matter and hope that the 355 miles. The crown will be found. At the same time, I would really like to ask you, as Vice-President of the Government for Innovation, Science and Research, to find some system solutions in cooperation with relevant ministers and with the Finance Minister for years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u144	Thank you and I'll ask the Deputy Prime Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u145	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, I agree with that. We're going to try just as I said at the beginning that this transfer wasn't entirely systemic, so it really has logic, and so that we don't get into the situation that there's a part of the money that didn't even go through the Council of Government for Research, Development and Innovation, and now they're looking for money because there's something in the ministries, something isn't. I believe that, as is the case elsewhere in the world, some departments will have their own chapters on R &amp; D within their budgets. Everywhere in the world, there's defense, homeland, etc., because there's logic to it. Which, of course, they draw from the money through the agencies, etc. So, for sure, we will enter into negotiations with the Minister and we will try to avoid these situations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u146	Thank you. And now I ask that he present his intervention in the next order, and this is Mr Tejc, who will interpel the Minister of Transport Tžok. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u147	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, let me ask you to answer the question whether or not the Ministry of Transport intends - and in that case why - to amend the current decree governing the charging of motorways in relation to the cities on which these motorways are located. Not only I, but also a number of colleagues in the past have persecuted your predecessor and their predecessor, with the need to change this arrangement, because for example. in Brno, where the D1 motorway has been charged since 2011 in a section that has never been charged, i.e. in the section between Raccoon and Slatina, there is a massive increase in traffic bypassing this highway. Noise and exhalation occur in places where they are definitely not desirable, i.e. in densely populated areas adjacent to the highway. I think our goal should be to protect citizens, not just the Treasury. I think it doesn't even occur at this point that the Treasury would be greatly enriched, because simply those who don't want to pay for the road sign and don't want to buy it, so they just don't buy it, they just use these routes, for example. in the towns of Bosonohy, Bohunice and others. And I must say that not only I, but especially the locals from the region where I come from, consider this situation to be very wrong and often critical. I would also like to point out that, contrary to what has been done in this section, another section of the motorway, which is far away from the city, but which are connected to the shopping centres, is not charged. This means, in my opinion, it is not a logical decision, but maybe we should give it to a reasonable degree to relieve citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u148	Thank you and please the Minister of Transport for your response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u149	Madam President, honourable Members, the position of the Ministry of Transport is as follows. At present, we do not want to make exceptions, or it was not our concern to make exceptions in charging motorways for cities. The interest was to maximize the selection of tolls and the selection of coupons from motorway stamps. I've had several requests recently, e.g. from České Budějovice, Brno and from other colleagues during negotiations with associations of regions. I said my position. I understand what Mr Tejc said, I understand what others have said, whether the mayors of the great cities or the captains. Here's the question: we should measure all the same subway. That means either we do parts that aren't charged around big cities where we can use this communication for circuits - but here I would like to point out that I think it should be not for truck transport, but only for transport of cars. We agreed with the captains that they would try to design a system. I would like us to discuss such material within the coalition, because we have to say what our priority is. Whether to fill the budget to fix the highways and, more importantly, how much would be involved. If there is no other way to compensate, e.g. A slight rise in the road sign that those circuits would just be made free of charge. [[17.10 hours]] I would like to have another debate on this issue as to whether it makes sense. I agree that we are here for the people, and we should make it easier for crowded cities, especially in peaks, and for those who take advantage of bypass routes. When it comes to using detour routes or trying to avoid paid truck sections, we really don't intend to cancel the truck myth. On the other hand, the law that I will present here at first reading - we have a new banner for the transit of trucks, so local authorities will have a chance to prevent their local communication through the city from being used by truck transport for the detour of paid sections. So much for that. Do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u150	The Member seems to want a supplement. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u151	Thank you for your answer. Anyway, I'm really after cars, not trucks. I will be glad if the analysis will be carried out if the debate with the captains and others will continue because I think it is not really just the city of Brno, it is also another one, it is all agglomerations where the highway is not even as freeway as it acts as a bypass, as a natural route that is used as a city circuit. I think that if the D1 motorway in that section is not charged in Prague in the passage of agglomerations, I think it might not even be in Brno. So I'm planning on rethinking it. I don't think it's gonna be a major fall in the road signs, either, because those who are circling the route today because they don't want to buy a road sign, so they just don't buy one, so in that sense, I think the blackout, even if there is one, might not be fatal for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u152	I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u153	I would like to confirm that I intend to continue this debate. I will continue to contact the captains and I will invite others, perhaps I also call on other mayors who are interested, and we will try to prepare material that would be discussed. And we have to say what our priority is. I agree, and I understand that this could be a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u154	Thank you. I will ask another in order, and that is Mr Šincl, who will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, today meteorologists in the area of Karvinska, Ostrava, Frýdek places have declared a smog situation again due to poor air quality and do not recommend that citizens go out at all. Again, the standard for the flight dust PM10 and benzopyrene, in spite of all the promises made by the various environmental ministers, is exceeded. Many citizens are also responding to this situation. For example, in December, I received a letter from an Eagle citizen, Mr. David Kozík. Because of the time limit for the interpelation, let me mention only a small selection of his letter. I quote: Air pollution PM10 Orlová, where I live, 279 micrograms per cubic meter, Věřnovice 303 micrograms per cubic metre, Ostrava- Mariánské Hory 233 micrograms, Havířov 231 etc. The limit is, as you know, 50 micrograms per cubic meter. I can't even open a window. Who needs oxygen today, right? My jacket smells like it's smoked. Why aren't you doing something about it? I know how difficult this is to deal with, but I'd like to see on TV how you want to solve this problem instead of endless promises. End of quote. I wrote him back that I see this problem very personally. One reason is that I myself live in this region with my family and I know very well what danger lies in this crossing of emission limits. This is one of the reasons why in this region there is the highest number of cancers in adults and unfortunately in children today. In this matter I have performed many, many times, in the Chamber of Deputies, and I have intersected all the environmental ministers that I have experienced during my era, and I do not know how many there have been anymore. Everyone promised me it would get better. All previous governments have declared that the atmosphere in Ostrava -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u156	Ambassador, your time, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u157	Since you are the Minister of the Environment and you have work to do, I would like to know what you will do with this problem and also what I have to answer to these citizens' questions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u158	Thank you. I'm going to ask the Minister for a reaction, and I'm going to ask all the interpelees to watch their time, because by exceeding the limit, you're stealing from your colleagues for a chance to get out. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u159	Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, believe me if I had the famous Arabelin ring, I would have used it to improve the air in Ostrava, of course, if I had the first thing I would have done in the field of the environment. If my predecessors promised you that this thing was dealt with quickly and painlessly, they just lied to you. You know it's not possible so quickly and painlessly. However, there are a number of steps that we have taken and which we continue to do and which I believe they can bring solutions, respectively. improvement, but it won't be within the horizon of one year, but unfortunately, with full seriousness, I have to say it will be over the next few years. Maybe just to compare the numbers of smog situations. Because last year compared to the heating season 2010/2011, when there were more than 20 smog situations in the area of the entire Moravian-Silesian region, the area of Ostrava Karvinska, Třinecka, and last year there were only five. But this year, in this heating season 2014/2015, which has not yet finished, we also have five. Actually, today's the fifth. This means, much more, over tens of billions that have swelled into the improvement of the environment in Ostrava, especially in the form of the Operational Programme Environment, the destruction of large industrial agglomerations ArcelorMittal, Nové Huta, other businesses, so it has not yet brought the effect that we would like. I don't even want to make excuses for whether it's Poland's greater fault or our part. The truth is, we have to admit that the number of smog situations still affects the weather more and more than what's happening there. We do, and I already talked about it today, it was an interpelling of a fellow Zahradník, prepared, as you know, a programme of cauldron subsidies. If we really manage to drag it to the end, and I firmly believe that we will succeed, it will certainly succeed, but if it is not complicated by some additional conditions, we would like to do so in the 2016 horizon and I believe that we could do it, replace really more than 100,000 local heating sites. Since local heating sites, and this is confirmed today, are not only impressions, they mean relatively significant loads mainly of smog situations in adverse weather conditions by flying dust, dust microparticles PM10 and PM2,5, which then bind carcinogens to each other. The next part is industry. We have prepared other measures that result from tightening up the conditions for the operation of major industrial enterprises, where there has been further tightening of the emission limits from the point of view of operation within the framework of the European Directive since 2017, which should once again improve. In addition, we prepare with the Moravian-Silesian Region, with the Regional Authority, and also with the city of Ostrava solutions for so-called. territorial emission ceilings that can be declared for smaller installations, e.g. smaller foundries, piles, hooves and others that can be declared under the existing Air Protection Act in cooperation with the competent regional authority. Another matter that we want to touch, virtually. We are discussing with the Regional Authority of the Moravian-Silesian Region and even with the city of Ostrava, there are low-emission transport zones. [[17.20 hours]] We know that the first one is being prepared in Prague. It is also considered the possibility of declaring a similar low emission zone in the Moravian-Silesian region in the area of Ostrava. But that's more of a thing to come out of the region. There is our activity rather, say, regulatory or legislative. I want to assure you, and please feel free to refer the people who are looking at you to write me, including some hard to publish. I can take them. We'd be happy to answer them. I'm in Ostrava quite often. I have a task force there, I have an agent for the Moravian-Silesian Region. We're constantly dealing with businesses. Believe me, we're really doing a lot, I don't want to say the maximum, there's always more to be done, but we're doing a lot of specific steps. I firmly believe that if people don't believe in anything, the boiler subsidies really should bring that effect. One last comment. There are further negotiations with Poland.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u160	Minister, I'm sorry, but your time is up too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u161	It's up. I'm sorry. I'm ready for a follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u162	The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u163	Of course, I want to ask an additional question, because the situation in our region in this area is very difficult. Minister, don't blame these citizens for writing such e-mails. I don't blame them either. All previous governments have declared that the atmosphere in Ostrava and Karvinsko is their priority, but it does not appear at all. Just really open the window in Karvina, Ostrava, Frýdek-Místek and you will understand immediately. You mentioned here that it's a matter for the next few years. I've been here about eight years now, and I can still hear it's a question for the next few years. Could you say that so that people behind these screens can look forward to when it will change? I'm probably not gonna be a MP at the time, and you're not gonna be a minister, but maybe here's a promise that maybe in five years it could be resolved. You mentioned that the smog limit was only exceeded five times. But the limit is 50 micrograms and this limit has been exceeded in the last year x-fold. You're talking about a much higher limit when the smog limit is announced. Thank you for answering the question I'm expecting from you now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u164	I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u165	Ambassador, I will try to be very brief. Like I said, I can't make any promises because there are things that we don't have so much power in terms of weather conditions or some Polish influences. But I am firmly convinced for you and for those who listen to this, or for other colleagues from the Moravian-Silesian Region, especially from Ostrava-Carvinsko and Třinecko, that when we realize the really important, revolutionary boiler program for me, which will really go from a significant part to the Moravian-Silesian Region, so already in the heating season 2016-2017 I am convinced that you will know the difference. Thank you. But it's possible I won't be here by then, but I'll be glad if it comes true regardless of whether I'm a minister or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u166	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Hovorka, who will interpel the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u167	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, last year I interviewed you in connection with a public procurement for the acquisition of specialised whole body magnetic scanners for research into the structure of the brain and spinal cord, nuclear magnetic resonance imaging at the Brno research institute CEITEC Masaryk University. 5 November 2014 Masaryk University published information that the Office for the Protection of Competition confirmed the correct procedure of the contracting authority in the said public contract. In this context, Minister, I would like to ask you for a communication - first of all - what all opinions, expert, expert, expert, etc. have been given by the Ministry of Education so far or have been available to it. Secondly, which of these assessments dealt with the price of the instrument and the conclusions reached with regard to the price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u168	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am just making a quick recap of history because it has been going on for some time. The project originally planned other devices with a request for a substantial change. The recipient of this subsidy had three opinions drawn up, I suspect we discussed what they had. Three reports were from foreign experts because there were other complaints, so they still have some expert opinion from the Czech Republic. That's on their side. The truth is, too, when we return to the recapitulation that the Office for Competition did not find fault, but the truth is that the whole matter is now under investigation by the Police of the Czech Republic, because for this has been filed a criminal report and addresses the relevant part of the specifically appointed university and the Ministry of Education has, of course, provided all the documents and is in co-operation for this investigation. As far as the Ministry of Education is concerned, it has commissioned its own expert opinion and, according to the information I have, the verification of the price of the devices for the approval of the subsidy programme and their amount has been found to be market in place and time usual according to this assessment. If it were for ineligible expenditure, as for all other projects, there would be no reimbursement of such expenditure. A similar situation to this project is one more project where it is handled in the same situation, so it is not the only thing. We will see how the Police of the Czech Republic will investigate. These steps have therefore been taken by the Ministry and with this result.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u170	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u171	Thank you for your explanation, Minister. I would just like to ask if the follow-up opinion given by the Ministry of Education is therefore the fourth expert opinion without three, which you set out at the beginning. And so if the assessment was given only after the Authority actually assessed that the procedure of the contracting authority was correct and that only the Ministry wanted to verify the price if it was actually set correctly, because otherwise the evaluation would, of course, have no meaning if the Office had already decided in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u172	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u173	According to my information, the funds have not yet been paid because the receiver of the apparatus has not yet submitted all the documents for approval. It is highly likely, according to the latest information, that he should do so in February 2015. If he puts it this way, then, of course, there will be an approval and assessment process. There's so much more to these reviews. I would also like to mention one further assessment, and that was why the Ministry commissioned another opinion of its own, and that is the opinion of the Audit Authority of the Ministry of Finance, which was just focused on the purchase price of the tomographer, with the fact that on this basis the Ministry requested another independent expert opinion, so that the Ministry of Education would, of course, also cover itself and have another independent assessment, independently of the opinions submitted by Masaryk University. So we'll see. I think that perhaps the matter will be most important in the investigation of the Police of the Czech Republic, and let the authorities involved in criminal proceedings do so. Of course, the financing of the entire project will also be affected accordingly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u174	Thank you. And now, please, next in line and this is Mr Bendl, who will interpel the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u175	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, let me ask you a question. You often say and argue that there has been a waste of money in the past and that this must be avoided. I have to say objectively that I agree with you in a number of cases. For example, in the case of "homemade fish " and so on. That's why I've never signed a contract like this or launched a project. But I think you've committed unprecedented, I'll say unethical matters, and that you've lent yourself to publicity for state money, promotion of so-called. regional food. I think you've surpassed a guy like David Rath, who also spent millions of dollars on his own promotions from the regional budget back then. I'd like to ask you if you already have an evaluation of this personal campaign of yours, how it turned out, when you will eventually publish it and make it available to the public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u176	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to make a brief summary of the question that has been raised here. For more than 10 years, the Ministry of Agriculture has supported marketing campaigns to promote the quality brand of the class and the so-called "Klasa." regional food. We've put about 1.5 billion on the Klasa brand over the last 10 years. Crowns. To date, no one has ever been able to measure how much the investment is worth 1.5 billion. in support of the Class was effective in terms of increasing sales of those products. He also blamed us as Ministry Supreme Audit Office in his findings. However, this is a situation that we do not intend to accept in the future, and we intend to innovate and change these things. But I'm just saying this for some frame for the opening of the discussion. So, in the autumn of last year, in the framework of a properly competitive campaign to support regional food, in the light of the developments that we all know here, following Russian sanctions, in general what was going on in the markets in the European Union, we decided to increase the activity of supporting producers of regional food, foods with the name of Klasa, foods bearing the protected designation BIO, geographical indication, etc. So, let's say, we've concentrated the campaign over a period of three months and the campaign, overall, as the media says it cost 60 million, so that's the total that was competitive for the period of 2014 and part of 2015. When it comes to the actual cost of the competition, it means organizing the competition, i.e. What was more, beyond what would have happened anyway, is about CZK 15 million. As far as the assessment of the campaign itself is concerned, we are, of course, at the first stage of the evaluation. Now on Monday, we released information about how many playing cards came in, and they came in 111,000. We originally expected about 75 grand. So the reality was significantly higher. When we realize that on each playing card there were 30 logos of these labels, we are somewhere over 3.3 million products, and if we take the average price of a regional product, our estimate is rather defensive, so we could quantify this to about CZK 100 to 110 million. Of course, this is not the way to evaluate it, the campaign, we are expecting evaluation, and now we have called on all companies in the Czech Republic which bear the designation and can give the designation of regional food, the Classa, the food product guaranteed by the Czech Food Chamber etc., all the seven labels to give us data and compare us the period when it was 2013, 2012, 2011 when these campaigns did not take place, whether these products were able to increase sales in terms of sales volume. So we expect these numbers from them if everyone gives them to us, sometime at the end of February, early March, and then we have a fairly high-quality evaluation. Of course, there are things in this campaign that cannot be evaluated hard, let's say, in the language of numbers, and that is what I was talking about at the outset when I was talking about the Class, when we invested 1.5 billion, which is incalculable. But let's say there is a certain effect here, which means that the topic has been opened up, that the topic has been discussed, that it has been discussed significantly in the media, and I have a positive response from both foodmakers and farmers. So, of course, we are dealing with this evaluation today, and we are also intensively debating how to deal with these campaigns in the future. How to get more involved in food manufacturers and farmers so that they themselves are involved in the process of setting up these marketing campaigns in the future. So this is a brief answer so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u178	I thank and ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u179	Thank you for the floor. I asked you, first of all, when are you going to evaluate your music video, which was funded by the taxpayer? To know how effective it was for the minister to show off on Czech TV for taxpayers' money. I find that unethical, and it shouldn't be. Otherwise, I support the fact that we have to do everything we can to promote regional food, after all we have always done so, was for the State to notice this, to support small producers and producers of healthy and quality food. Otherwise, I understood from what you said that you didn't have data from 2012 and 2013, how the companies involved were. That means you ask them now, they'll write you a number. And they'd be crazy if they didn't write that there's a big difference between that and they'd like to see the state budget deal again. So you don't have a basis, at this point, to judge it. [[Attention on time.]] That's what I think is fatally wrong, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u180	I beg the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u181	Thank you As for my personal evaluation of my performance in the spot, I will only add so much: There are examples of French ministers, Minister of the Republic of Poland and I am the first minister to speak openly about how important it is that people, when they buy, realize where they buy the food from, who made it, who pays taxes in the Czech Republic, who pays social and health, who employs people and citizens of the Czech Republic. And I've been talking about it since the beginning, since 2010. I'm a man who came out of food and agriculture, and I'm not playing games. It's not putting anybody anywhere. Everyone gets a picture of it themselves. If it's the subject of criticism, of course the voters will evaluate it, and they won't vote for Jurečka next time, I'll accept it, I have no problem with it. However, I must say that if I can say my subjective assessment of the reactions of the people I meet, who write on my Facebook, on my e-mail, those reactions are 95 percent positive. I must say that at the moment when this was also discussed in the media, and I have an absentee colleague to thank. Tejc through Madam President, so at the moment when this was started to be publically discussed, we saw how dramatically the number of playing cards handed over to this competition increased. So even the media interest, which was then devoted to the Minister's role in such advertising, helped to make a lot more people participate in the competition at the end. So you don't have to agree with me, subjective evaluations and people's reactions are what I described. But we'll have numbers at the end of March. And I don't think that companies have any reason to distort data, because we also know how much we may have given these companies, say, space in terms of the range of the product range that they might have appreciated by those labels, so they can't just fix it so easily to say, those numbers were dramatically different at the time, and now we're going to make them significantly better in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u182	Thank you. Another interviewer is the Vice-President of the House, Petr Gazdík, and will interpel Mrs Šlechtová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u183	Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, like many others, I have recently read in the media about the suspension of the approval of operational programmes for which approval was foreseen at the turn of the year. After the annual functioning of your government, the Czech Republic does not have an approved single operational programme. It is all the more alarming that, for example, neighbouring Slovakia has approved all operational programmes today. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you some specific questions, which I ask you to give me an answer. Firstly, is it true that you have received a letter from the European Commission, in which the European Union clearly states that until the government suspends its slippage, which it has in its service law and its implementation and approval of its regulations, the only operational programme in the Czech Republic will not be approved? Secondly, is it still true what you said earlier that all operational programmes will be approved by the end of June and that this planning period can be implemented? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u184	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u185	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I will answer all the questions and perhaps give some information. As regards negotiations with the European Commission. I think it is a great success for this government that we have managed to negotiate the Partnership Agreement. The Partnership Agreement was indeed quite challenging material, negotiated with the European Commission for two years, where the European Commission was also basing on individual words within this document. As for the fact that not one operational programme has yet been approved, and the Slovak Republic and some others have approved operational programmes, it is possible to laurize here, but it would rather be for a more detailed debate as the European Commission approaches the Czech Republic as such. Next week, I will be putting material on the government where, as a national coordination body, we have evaluated the European Commission's approach to many Member States, and the Czech Republic is making it the worst of it, which means that the most strict conditions are being put on us. Of course, we can only assume the reason for this. It can, of course, be errors, underdrafts, media cases about the ROPs, ROP Northwest, closing people who have been responsible for drawing European funds. The Czech Republic has this image in the European Commission. As far as the approval of the programmes is concerned. I've said it several times. The Commission issued a late regulation and really at the last minute, where if we were to draw from 1. 1. This was neither legally possible since the regulation was published by the European Commission in December 2013. It will be at least three quarters of a year before the agreement we have approved is approved. Only then are programs negotiated. This is simply the whole process of how the European Commission has set up a regulation for the 2014-2020 programming period. On your question, the second one, whether we should be able to approve the programme by June of this year, I still think so. With regard to the law of service and the impact on the three programmes already sent to the European Commission, the problem here is not exactly as such, because I believe that after so many years when the European Commission demanded it from the Czech Republic, this is actually the government that approved it, but the problem is that we are now creating implementing documents, implementing documents just in the case of the Service Act, which includes, for example, the remuneration system, which is the most crucial point for the European Commission. On 9 January there was a meeting with the European Commission, where the European Commission noted a positive progress in preparing the timetable and setting up the approval of implementing regulations, but it is most interested in the remuneration system, which is now being dealt with at the level of MPSV and the Ministry of Finance. However, in terms of programme approval, our programs have shifted to the second wave, meaning they will not be approved, or should not be approved in mid-February, as originally announced, but sometimes in the second quarter, April, May, June. I reckon all programs will be approved by June. If that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u186	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I see Vice-President of the House wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u187	I just want to thank the Minister for a fairly very clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u188	Thank you. The next draw is Mr Adam Rykala, who will interpel the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u189	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Minister. The honourable Members, many have been written about the state of the D47 motorway, and many have been said on the floor of this Chamber of Deputies. However, I read on Monday on the press website that the company that built the D47 motorway refused to participate in the repair of this highway and refused to participate in the repair of bridges that are in catastrophic condition. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you really think that the state of the D47 motorway, but also some other roads in our Czech Republic are only responsible for the company that is building these motorways or is responsible for the state, as well as the Road and Motorway Directorate. How is it possible that motorways in the Czech Republic are much more expensive than in Austria or Germany, for example, but the situation is much worse than in Austria or Germany? Why isn't your ministry able to control the construction of roads and highways? We have some project documentation, then the construction itself takes place and we will learn a few years after the D47 motorway was put into operation, when it is driven, virtually. And it doesn't, so we'll know that the building isn't actually okay. We'll know that the condition doesn't fit any standards, and it's even dropping to 30 kilometers per hour. So I would like to ask you, Minister, who is responsible for this situation and how the Ministry will handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u190	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u191	Thank you. Good afternoon. Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to respond to this question. I'll take it a little more wide, which time will allow. Yes, for the second time, we have sent a call to the consortium led by Eurovia for the D47 motorway to start repairing this road, especially the affected bridges, which threaten to collapse. I can say for myself here that we are prepared to do what we have said after their negative opinion, which means that we will begin to repair the highway, especially the bridges, ourselves, because there is a risk of collapse, and from the point of view of a good economic operator, we simply cannot let them destruct in a way that would actually be carried out by the cold roll that will support them. As far as the rest of the question is concerned, I agree with you that there is certainly no clear responsibility for one or the other. On the other hand, I can't accept the fact that there's a contractor here who's gonna build a freeway that's kind of impossible to ride, and he's gonna say he's not responsible for it. Nota bene, that the responsibility calls into question in arbitration, and we get users of this road, our citizens, into a situation that they are unable or cannot use that highway in the sense it was intended. What happens happens will happen what the law enforcement authorities investigate, which will really determine who is responsible. We're in an arbitrage situation today. Arbitrage for who is responsible for the defects and to what extent has been going on for a year. I'm afraid it's just gonna go on for another year or two. There's no way I'm happy with this condition. We want to find a way to repair the highway in line with the state's failure to get into a disadvantageous situation and to recover any damage from the contractor to the extent that arbitration determines that the damage was caused. As far as the responsibility of workers on the part of the state is concerned, this means that workers, in particular, on the side of the ŘSD and supervisory organisations, who should have done and acted, so, according to my information, steps have already been taken and we will certainly continue to assume the responsibility of these workers. I can guarantee that, as can the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u192	I thank the Minister and ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question. She doesn't want to, okay. The next in line is Mrs Maxová, who withdrew her intervention. I therefore ask Mr Číp to present his intervention on Minister Herman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u193	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the non-economic treatment of cultural heritage on the part of Czech Television. From a group of experts and a small group of angry spectators, I get information about the Czech Republic's treatment of dabbing foreign films and series, which Czech Television inherited after Czechoslovak television. There is nothing unusual when even famous dabings are left in the archives and replaced by dabings with new or simple labels. The original dabing is therefore not willing to sell Czech TV for domestic use and the acquisition of new dabings is evidence of the sufficient funding Czech TV has and it is therefore considered whether to reduce the licence fees. And since the last Czech TV management at the end of the 1990s went so far that several hundred edited films and series in excellent condition had been shredded, mostly from the archive of Czechoslovak TV Brno, it is clear that it was at least a Macesian approach. Although the current management of the Czech Television is not responsible for this and is more suitable for viewers in this direction, nine tenths of the edited titles are not released at all or with a new dubbing. I beg you, Minister, to give the initiative to see if at least any of what was shredded paper in the late 1990s can be obtained and saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u194	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you for this initiative, which is certainly very important. I just have to say in the introduction that the concept of dubbing is not regulated by any law under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture. However, of course I can give an incentive for Czech TV. But, of course, the theme of dabbing is an important topic especially in the Czech Republic. The current wording of the Act on the operation of radio and television broadcasting causes application difficulties, and is sometimes even on the verge of democratic principles of the rule of law and sound judgment in this matter. At the same time, it should be noted that the translation from the original text should also describe in the maximum manner the original text and the intention of the creator, otherwise the value of the whole work would be distorted. From the point of view of the authenticity of the dabbing, it is therefore necessary to use expressions that may sometimes not seem appropriate to some viewers, but belong to a given film, an episode, a series of its nature. Of course, the level of language has the limits that must not endanger the physical, psychological or moral development of those to whom the image is intended. In the summer of last year there was information in the media regarding the request of some actors of sound names who entered into a dispute with some dabbing studies on working conditions and remuneration for the work done. Today, the demand has been described that the dubians demand remuneration based on the number of recorded texts, not from the hour, because thanks to the technique the dabing process is accelerating and the actors speak much more text for the same time period than in the past. As a result of this dispute, some of the dabbing studios have reoccupied the dubers, so, for example, Julia Robertsová no longer needs to speak her traditional voice, Nela Boudová. The dispute does not concern Czech Television or Virtual Studies, where Czech film versions are made for cinemas including disneys. This is purely a labour dispute. It may also be interesting to say that Czech Television supports a certain range of dual broadcasts. From 1 December 2011 it offers original sound for selected programs as part of satellite reception on channels ČT1, ČT2 and ČT1HD. On the contrary, due mainly to the limited availability of the necessary bandwidth, the Czech Television terrestrial distribution is exclusively equipped with a national audio accompaniment in the stereo version. Dual broadcasts for some shows, sitcoms broadcast from the record, are used by Prima Cool, not as linear live, but on request, on the Internet, because television does not have frequency capacity for this function. As I said at the beginning, the concept of dubbing is not regulated by any law under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture, but the media laws relating to television are within our competence. Thank you for this impulse and I will certainly be talking to the TV staff on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u196	I thank and ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u197	I would like to thank the Minister and take him more or less at his word, with the fact that I would perhaps once again stress the economic aspect of economy here. If there is a television image, which is already in its own way well tuned and can be used to ensure that there is really no extra and other means of merely embossing or embossing are spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-010-140.u198	Thank you, too. Since it's just 17.55, I'm forced to terminate the interpellation at this point. Before I interrupt the meeting, allow me to load one apology, an apology from Mr Adámek, who has been apologizing since 16.30 for medical reasons. Since we've exhausted today's agenda, I'm ending today's meeting day. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we'll proceed with the approved program. Have a good evening.
