ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 202/1990 Coll., on lotteries and other similar games, as amended /German press 626/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 The Government proposes that we act in accordance with § 90 para. 2, this means that we have already agreed to the bill at first reading. Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, from the perspective of the Government's resolution of 26 October this year, when it was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies with the relevant resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic signed by the Prime Minister that the Minister of Transport alters the Minister of Finance. I am registering President TOP 09's application with priority rights only after the start of the debate, after the rapporteur's speech. The Minister of Transport has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, allow me to briefly present a bill amending the Lottery Act and other similar games. This bill was submitted by the Government of the Chamber of Deputies in the light of the development of the amendment to the Lottery Act, submitted by Mr Jan Volný, this is the Parliamentary Press 437. The aim of the proposal is to increase the taxation of gambling from 1 January 2016 in accordance with the coalition agreement and the Government's programming declaration. It is therefore proposed to increase the lottery levy rate to 23 per cent for all gambling, except for winning instruments and similar devices, for which it is proposed to increase the proportional levy rate to 28 per cent. It is also proposed to increase the fixed levy rate to CZK 80 per day for these devices and equipment. The rates of the lottery levy will thus be close to the rates contained in the Gambling Tax Bill, which should take effect on 1 January 2017 and thus complete the reform of the regulation of gambling. It can be noted that, in the case of winning instruments and similar devices, effective taxation in the proposed proposal is essentially equal to the effective taxation of such instruments and equipment proposed in the Gaming Tax Act. This is due to the fact that the fixed rate of CZK 80 per day and the instrument or equipment corresponds to approximately 7 per cent of the proportional rate and thus together to an effective taxation of 35 per cent. The proposed bill further changes the budgetary determination of the levy in such a way that the additional revenue from the levy is received by the State budget. Therefore, the ratio between the State and the municipality of the distribution of the partial contribution from the winning instrument and similar equipment varies from the current ratio of 80 to 20 in favour of municipalities to 60: 40 in favour of municipalities. The proposed changes should bring an additional yield for the state budget of approximately CZK 2 billion per year. The yield of general budgets should remain approximately at the same level. Given that there is a calendar year for the draw-off period from lotteries and other similar games, a change in rates should take effect on 1 January. In view of the length of the legislative process, the Government has therefore submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a draft law proposing consent to the law at first reading. In the event that the bill is not agreed at first reading, I will request a reduction in the time limit for discussing this bill in committees for seven days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u3	I thank Minister Dan Ťok for the introduction of the proposal, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Volný, then with priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I think the parameters were presented here by the referring minister, Mr Ťok. I would just like to remind you that this proposal has been discussed by the Government 12. 10th around noon and the House was delivered 13. 10. I don't know who made a mistake in this trial. Minister Babiš... However, this law was actually delivered here a day longer than it was discussed and could be delivered here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have an application with the priority right of Chairman TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u6	Excuse me, please, this is just a procedural point, Mr President, I am not taking advantage of my priority application for a debate right now. I just want to ask you to understand that if the parties to the coalition were arguing about these rates for six months, very passionately explaining who is the bigger fraud and who is the bigger freak, perhaps the rest of the Chamber of Deputies could have at least a few days to discuss, to table amendments and, above all, to adopt the resolution of the budget committee, which I think the House would very much need. So please stress that we will not veto the proposal to shorten the period under 30 days, where we also have the right to veto, but the 90s, that's just too much. Please understand, you're completely shutting us out of the game, and none of us deserve that. Just because the vast majority of you obviously haven't read it at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u7	I'm supposed to see it as you're raising for the TOP 09 MP - and I see a colleague of Marek Benda for the ODS Club - the veto to discuss in accordance with § 90 para. 2. We will therefore continue the proper process. I now have two applications, with a factual remark from Mr Herbert Pavera and then a proper application from Mr Ladislav Šincl. [[A messenger is required with priority rights. Kalousek.]] But after a factual remark from the party colleague, Mr President. Please make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u8	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to respond to the fact that the Ministry here comes back with a clear message, how it doesn't really matter how much money it goes to municipalities and cities. Again, there is a reduction in the yield for municipalities from 80 to 60, just as you cut off on Friday the budgetary determination of taxes and an increase in the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities and cities. So you can see how much you care about the development of municipalities and cities, and perhaps the voters will see it too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point by Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. I will more or less follow up on my colleague, Mr Herbert Pavera. It wasn't just the RUD, when you took more municipalities, it wasn't just the Lottery Act, when you took more municipalities. You more municipalities take also in the amendment to the Mining Act, where you take more money from the extracted minerals into the state budget and give less to the municipalities. So the village is in last place. The first is a leaky budget of Minister Babiš, an increase in civil servants' salaries - that is a priority and there you need money! In fact, in the village, it was in the last place. I don't know what role KDU-ČSL plays in this, which has always applied to municipalities. Apparently, she's already changed her priorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, then Mr. Shincl's proper application. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. Don't worry, colleagues, I think I can almost fit within the limit of a factual point. I really don't want to hold things up. In addition to what I had prepared, I would like to reply to Mr Volný, who said that he really does not know what the Minister Babiš doubted. I thought I said that a couple of times, so I'm gonna say it one more time. Because he was the proponent of this law that he knew or should have known, if he didn't know it, he had that if we all wanted to discuss it on Friday, which we all wanted to discuss at a proper meeting on Friday, that he had to deliver it to the Chamber of Deputies on Monday afternoon. Do I have to tell you through Mr President, Mr Volný, how many times I, as Minister of Finance, have been tap dancing with my people in the hallway to watch when the Prime Minister signs it, and when he signs it, will one of my people just take it and run to the Chamber of Deputies to make it by 16.15 and bring it to me from the mailroom that I gave it up in time and that we didn't miss the deadline? Many times! It's just that we've been working and we've been honoring the rules. And this is a bit of a problem with yours, as you call it, boss. The boss promised to work better and work harder. He obviously works harder and doesn't want to work at all, he prefers to go for the heat. So maybe now I've made myself clear enough. It was just his responsibility and his interest to get here in time, and he just bailed! And he set up an emergency meeting for all of us, which he also bailed on because he left for the heat. He's got his digs for it. They're gonna push him around in some way. Now our position on this proposal. I respect, I even appreciate that this is finally a proper government proposal that it is not an MP. The legitimacy of this requirement is indicative of what the government has put forward. I stress that what the government has put forward is something completely different from what was in the Free Amendment. Minister Babiš told us across the sea that the Free Amendment could have been discussed long ago, but perhaps you haven't noticed, you who haven't read it, that there is something completely different in the Free Amendment. In the Free Amendment there is a parametric increase in one single rate and the government decided to go with a completely different concept and the government decided to split rates for different types in hazard quotation marks and according to the degree of social hazard. It slightly contradicts the tax theory, it is one of the comments of the Chamber of Commerce. Who has read the comments of the Chamber of Commerce is about as if you wanted some unhealthy food to be taxed at a higher rate than healthy food. But please, everyone has to eat, not everyone has to bet. And it is true that in OECD countries it is more common that rates are separated. So I don't find the government concept completely unlikable, and I'm ready to support it. I am just stressing that this is a completely different concept than that of Mr Volný, and that when Minister Babiš says: we could already have approved the Volný, so again, as is his custom, either he is not telling the truth or he has no idea what was in the Volný Member's proposal, or he has no idea what is in the government's proposal, which we are now discussing without his presence, even if he is his promoter. Here I would like to appreciate Minister Took, because his speech clearly shows that, unlike the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Transport has read the material. That's kind of nice. I think, and I do not insist, it wants a discussion on the budget committee in the presence of the Ministry of Finance, I think that the government proposal would still deserve a discussion on the burden of individual types - lottery, exchange rate and gambling, and I believe that not in the case of a fee, but in the case of the corporate tax rate, the most harmful gamble in quotes, that is, the ugly boxes with the lights, could bear an additional percentage, which means a greater burden on corporate taxes, but I leave that until the second reading at the budget committee meeting in the presence of someone from the Ministry of Finance who read the proposal. It wasn't the Minister, and it's not even here, after all, and I think we're able to approve it quite quickly so that in some consensus it's effective to 1. 1. 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u13	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I will ask my colleague Šincl to be patient because I have two factual points - Mr Karel Fiedler and Mr Volný, both with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just very briefly in the context of a factual remark, more of a stern statement. Within the spirit of the tradition of this Chamber of Deputies, we cannot allow the first duly registered to speak so soon, that would be contrary to tradition. When we were discussing House Press 437, I read here the Government's position on this House Press 437. And since the House's press 626 is different, as Mr Kalousek said, it is otherwise proposed, but it concerns only and exclusively the degree of taxation and distribution between the State and the municipality, so I would just like to say that even (i) this proposal, according to the government's original position on the House's press 437, leaves significant shortcomings. These are, in particular, the operation of illegal betting games through the Internet network, where revenue from it will no longer be taxed, and the non-compliance of applicable legislation with European Union law. As a result of this incoherence, it is necessary to see a not entirely justified disadvantage for legal operators of lotteries and other similar games. So this proposal does not seek to combat the illegal segment. That's just from the government's position on the 437 House press. And I believe that the House's press is fully valid for 626 when only the level of taxation is being addressed and the illegal sector remains unnoticed contrary to the spirit of electronic sales record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the rapporteur's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'm really very brief. Yes, volný Kalousek is right. My original Free Proposal had 25 percent for everyone. But I, believe it or not, inspired the great guru Mr. Kalousek, who, four or five years ago, also gave one rate: 20. I just picked it up. But by the time we tripped on the government proposal, there was already a MP's proposal in Votava-Volný, where the 23 and 28 were already given. So maybe that's why. And the last thing for Mr. Kalousek: when Mr. Babiš is here for 17 years, he'll know it's ten days, and he'll take the law and run with him to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u17	Thus, the comment by my fellow Volný, Mr Kalousek, raised a factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u18	I don't want to react to those rates, we'd be lost in them now. But as you said, Mr. Babiš, I dare say, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, he hasn't been here for 17 years, but he's been here for 22 years. And over the 22 years, he didn't learn to identify with the Czech state to celebrate his most important state holiday with him. You can't fix that by talking about rates, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with proper application, Mr Ladislav Šincl. Please, Mr. Ambassador. You are duly logged in and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President. [[Messenger Shincl brought a large red shamon full of various documents to the speaker's desk.]] Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, dear government, Minister, excuse me, allow me, as a guarantor of the issue of the ČSSD lottery, to comment on the submitted government proposal, which is basically just a slightly modified version of the recent Volný Member's Act, House Press 437, which was withdrawn by the petitioner last week. [[The speaker looked around at how many members of the government sit in the government bench]] [[only Minister Brabec sits in the government bench]] This proposal is not perfect, but it is much better than the original proposal of the Volný Member here. It is much better because, at least in part, it eliminates the shortcomings that I drew attention to in my speech to the Parliaments of the Press, 437, the predecessors of today's amendment, which we are discussing today. In particular, I mean that it contains at least some differentiated rates according to the social hazard of individual types of lotteries in a similar spirit, as stated in the Government's proposal for the Gaming Act. I am also referring specifically to the fact that there is no negative position of the Ministry of Finance, which was really threatening with one almost so-called coalition proposal in the House of Press 437, which was so-called outside the optimal point of the Lafferův curve and where, according to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance - I stress: according to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, there was a steep fall in income. It is also clearly stated by the Ministry of Finance that they guarantee - that they guarantee - the promised additional proceeds and there is no arbitrage for the Czech Republic as I wished in my previous speech to the House of Press 437. Unfortunately, to my regret, this government proposal does not contain the idea that at least a small part of the funds from the lottery levies and other similar games, which is in the direct state budget, should be assigned to a specific publicly beneficial objective, namely a state drug policy that also includes the issue of gambling and pathological gambling. I want to assure the honourable House that I will continue to promote this idea, for example, in the context of the discussion of the long-awaited government gambling law. Despite this reservation, I would like to tell you right here at the outset that we support this government and the entire social democracy club, and we are also prepared to vote for its approval at first reading. But since the veto was raised, it's not possible. However, I also think it would be fair to answer today the question of why we are here today, 27. 10. we are discussing this proposal not entirely standard way to an emergency meeting, which is still only a partial, incomplete solution, and it is not long ago approved by the promised government gambling law, which is currently only at first reading. This is not because a Member of Kalousek has been more extensive here on the Government's proposal for the Gaming Act. For the sake of clarity, he spoke in particular to the Parliament's press 437 of the original draft of the Lottery Act of the Volný Member. This is mainly because the Minister of Finance did not present Andrej Babiš on time, as the government imposed on him by its resolution No. 165 of 12. 3. 2014. Specifically, it was a task - quote - to prepare a draft law on betting games with a deadline for submission to the government in final form by the end of 2014 and with a deadline for expected effectiveness of September 2015. For my colleagues from the ANO movement, I repeat: in final form by the end of 2014 and with the deadline for expected effectiveness September 2015. This is very important for further understanding of the true story of the gambling law. Yes, the minister did his job. Indeed, on 22 December 2014, the bill was submitted to the government. A modern law, which tried to respond to new trends regarding illegal gambling, dealt with taxation of currently untaxed areas of gambling on the Internet, and also included tightening conditions for the operation of socially most harmful automatic gambling, both by way of significantly higher taxation and by way of setting various adictological brakes according to self-regulation measures for players and registration etc. I must say that at that time I admired this development and impressed me with the ambitions of lawmakers not to be influenced by the legislation of the gambling lobby. However, this was only the first part of the story, whose continuation is not so optimistic and unambiguous. What was presented to the government, however, was only for the cameras, for the media, where the minister wanted to present himself as a great fighter against hard gambling. By the end of last year, however, this good bill under the baton of Minister Babiš and his advisors at the Ministry of Finance was gradually softened quietly until today's almost toothless form to the satisfaction of operators of the hardest automatic gambling. If I had behaved as I do today, unfortunately absent Minister Babiš, I could now accuse him of influencing the gambling lobby, and I would certainly have a number of reasons for that. For example, it could be the fact that the law is very late. The government submitted it to the Chamber of Deputies on 28 August 2015 and the first reading was started on 30. 9. 2015. [[19.20 hours]] In particular, illegal operators of the bet at home or lottoland type are primarily interested in this delay, who, in the current situation in our country, operate their games without any taxation or regulation. However, since I am not acting like Minister Babiš, I will not accuse him of anything like this. However, I still have to ask why and under what influence some major changes have taken place in this law since it was originally presented to the government for cameras and for media in December 2014 and the current situation presented here in the Chamber of Deputies. Why and how has the majority of substantial measures gradually disappeared from it, especially those aimed at protecting the player and society from negative influences? Why such fouls had to be corrected up to the government on 29. 7. where, however, did this happen in a partial way? There are many questions about the change in the attitude of Minister Babiš and his ministry to changes in gambling legislation. When I open this subject, I'll be specific. These are the measures that disappeared from the law a few months ago in a moment by waving a magic wand. It's a mandatory break 15 minutes after 60 minutes of the game. This is a very important measure for the creation and development of addiction. Next, it's a play interval where five seconds have been proposed, which has been reduced to two seconds. Again, a very important measure that affects the dynamics of the game, and thus the emergence and development of addiction. Furthermore, the mandatory closing hours of the game room between 3:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. Again very important, because it is very desirable to disrupt the continuity of playing addicts so that they can think about what they are doing, pathological players. Furthermore, the highest bet and hourly loss have increased radically. It's Section 52. For technical equipment in the game room, respectively. in the casino, the maximum bet was raised from the original 5 to 100 crowns, respectively. from 50 to 1000 crowns. And the maximum hourly loss increased from 2,000 to 4,500 crowns, respectively. from 10,000 to 45,000. The amount of the bet is an essential determinant, a fundamental acceleration of addiction. The changes also affected the issue of a permit to place the game space - Section 98 specifically. The municipality must issue a permit compared to the original proposal of one year for a period of three years. I understand the line of reasoning for this change, but here it should be stressed that this law does not make a primary sense to protect operators' investments, but to protect the population from the negative effects of gambling. Furthermore, in § 67, a ceiling of not more than 30 gaming positions per game room fell out. Now only a minimum of 15 gaming positions are set in the bill, which is a shift in the right direction, but it does not address the significant increase in automata in our country. Only in this way will the vending machines move from smaller operators to larger ones. Next thing I know, I'm gonna cut down on the casino bail. I don't really see this as a measure aimed at cultivating a gambling environment, but on the contrary, it opens up the possibility for even the meanest gambling establishments to turn into a casino. I believe that we want to leave quality operators on the market at a level that respects the rules and legislation. They shouldn't have a problem raising bail. The list of negative changes could be much longer, much longer, but I do not want to delay you today, surely there will be room to go back to this in the discussion of the real great government bill on gambling in the House press 578. As I have already mentioned, as a guarantor of the given issue of our club, I have long been interested in the development related to the new Government Act on Gambling. For example, on 11 December 2014, I interviewed the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš on the upcoming lottery law. Unfortunately, the Minister was not as present today, so I received only a written reply. I would like to document everything, so I would now hand over this evidence to both the rapporteur and the Minister. 1, passed on to the Minister, if I may, through the President. [[He's handing over documents.]] There is this written reply of 22. 12. 2014, where the Minister assured me: "The new gambling law will be submitted to the government by the end of 2014. " I had no idea that it would be for the media only so that the Minister could properly present himself fighting gambling, and that it would then continue to be quietly softened, as I have already described. On the contrary, I naively expected that this gambling law would be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies as soon as possible so that it could be approved in the Chamber of Deputies according to the Government's tasks until September 2015 so that the law could start to apply from 1. 1. 2016. However, since the law was not submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in January or February or March, I asked Deputy Minister Ondřej Závodský to meet, which according to my calendar took place on 21 March. At this meeting, which was attended by the Director of the Ministry of Finance lottery department Karel Bláha, I asked, among other things, when this law will finally be passed. And since there were signs of softening it at the time, whether it would be in the strict version of December 2014 and whether it would finally be called. Renotified by Mr Fichtner's amendment, he is not here, and procházka, but about that shortly. Mr. Deputy Minister, I was assured at this meeting that the law would be submitted as soon as possible in order to meet the deadline of effectiveness 1. 1. 2016. Furthermore, I have been assured that there will be no softening in favour of hard gambling, and that therefore there is no need for renotification or repeated notification of the proposal of Fichtner and Procházka Members due to the early submission of a large government bill on gambling. Which corresponds to a letter from the Ministry of Finance dated 5. 11. but about that really soon. Unfortunately, I did not see the promised law in the Chamber of Deputies either in April, May or June. For this reason, on June 18, 2015, I verbally interpolated - I stress on June 18, this is an important date - verbally interpelled the Prime Minister again in the matter of the planned lottery law, where I asked when the long-awaited law will finally be here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I informed him that, according to me, the law is gradually softened by Andrej Babiš in order to meet hard gambling. In the meantime, the Volný Member from Andrej Babiš was tasked to present the so-called. of course, as in the case of Mr Fichtner's proposal, they created at the Ministry of Finance, whose slightly modified version we are discussing today. In my opinion, the main aim of this Volný was to cover up the described gradual softening and displacement of the proposed large government amendment to the Gambling Act in time to the Chamber of Deputies for a time when it was no longer really possible to achieve efficiency from 1. 1. 2016, and above all, it was supposed to create a media illusion that Andrej Babiš and now a Member of the Volný with Gambling still struggled hard, while reality was completely different. [[19.30 hours]] Just for the record, let me say that the Great Government Act on Gambling was actually discussed by the government as much as 29. 7. 2015. The government submitted it to the Chamber of Deputies up to 28. 8. 2015 and the first reading was started up to 30. 9. 2015. Instead of a normal response to my questions and criticisms, why the Government's bill of gambling has long been tabled and discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, a quick reaction came from Minister Andrej Babiš in his favourite style, called. After grandma's, hysterical personal attacks, slanders, lies, intimidation. These hysterical personal attacks were many, so I chose only the most interesting ones for you not to be too bored and delayed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u21	Well, Mr. Colleague, I understand that it's kind of related to this, but I would have led you to the point of the bill after all. Try it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u22	I'll try, it really has something to do with the subject at hand. Minister Andrej Babiš, for example, in the Journal Law on 20. 6. that's two days after my interview with the Prime Minister on the upcoming lottery law, among other things. The indictment of my person, and even my family related to the Insurance Act, said that - quote: This is not the first time Mr Šincl has been misbehaved, we have had experience with him. When the Lottery Act was under discussion, the Committee on Budgets went on to read from the paper that the lottery companies had probably prepared for him and willingly assisted the ODS in his efforts. The amendment has been stopped in the Committee on Budgets and has not yet made it to second reading. - The paper that the lottery companies have probably prepared for me in the opinion of Andrej Babiš, please remember, colleagues, this will be very interesting. Just for not fully informed, by this statement from the Journal of Law of 20. 6. He meant discussing the amendment of Mr Fichtner's lottery law, the Parliament's 169th press, where, as some members of the budget committee surely remember, I was designated as rapporteur. Since this is a hard accusation, let me make a brief explanation and repeat that this amendment proposal is subject to the so-called Member States of the European Union are obliged to notify the European Commission and the other Member States of any proposal for a technical regulation on observations or similar opinions through which such draft legislation is compatible with the law of the European Union. The primary consequence of the submission of a proposal for notification is the suspension of legislative work for a period of three months. The amendment to the Lottery Act requires notification, perhaps now the Minister of Finance Babiš, who did not identify the new gambling law to the European Commission in August of this year. Let us now, however, leave aside the extent to which this three-month mandatory procedure can justify almost a year and a half of the ongoing delay in legislative work on the so much-needed, completely new gambling law. From my position as rapporteur, I was obliged to draw attention to this fact and I did so during my opening appearance at the first reading held on 17. 7. 2014. I would also like to reiterate at this point that, in the context of the notification procedure, comments from the European Commission have been raised against this proposal for an amendment to the Lottery Act, as well as the detailed opinion of Austria, which led to an extension of the period for which this proposal could not be accepted until 27. 10. 2014. The Committee on Budgets, to which this bill has been ordered, has repeatedly dealt with this House's press, not only 9. 9. 2014, as the Minister of Finance says mistakenly and considers, but also at his meeting 13. 11. 2014. In the course of this discussion, his Members Fichtner and Procházka prepared an amendment to this amendment, which was supposedly intended to incorporate the comments of the European Commission and Austria in order to ensure its compatibility with the law of the European Union. In this context, as rapporteur, I asked for expert - I stress expert - opinions, respectively. confirmation of whether it is necessary, in accordance with the already cited directive and Government Decree 339/2002 Coll., on procedures for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations, to redefine the amendment by the European Commission. I have also asked for expert opinions alongside the Ministry of Finance - please, Mr rapporteur, this is a letter from the Ministry of Finance - other authorities responsible for proper application of the law of the European Union in the territory of the Czech Republic. [[sends a letter to Mr Free]] It was, for example, the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing, which, by the way, is the top national authority responsible for the proper conduct of the notification procedure. . [[He's handing over another charter.]] And the opinion of the Office of the Government and its division of compatibility. I'll set up the rapporteur for the Minister here. It is then the opinion of the Government Agent for the representation of the Czech Republic before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In order to achieve maximum objectivity, I have also asked for the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute in this regard. All these entities clearly agreed on the same conclusion, which was that the proposal for an amendment to the Lottery Act under House printing 169 must be re-notified by the European Commission in accordance with Directive 98/34/EC, as amended by the amendment. The infringement of the obligations under this Directive would result, according to the opinions submitted, not only inenforceability of such erroneously acceptable legislation against individuals, but also in a high risk of action by the European Commission under Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, so called. Infringement. In this context, I would like to say that, according to the opinion of the Technical Standardization Office, it was even the Ministry of Finance itself, which proposed, within the framework of the official opinion, that in the legislative process the bill in question should be withdrawn, the Parliamentary press 169, which they themselves wrote and sent to the Chamber of Deputies after Mr Fichtner, completely. In addition, it was again the Ministry of Finance, through the relevant Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Ondřej Závodský in his letter of 5. 11. 2014, which I have already handed over to the rapporteur for the Minister, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, has informed the European Commission that he does not take into account the European Commission's complaints in a way compatible with European Union law, and that this amendment will lead to a deterioration in the procedural position of the Czech Republic in the proceedings referred to in it by the European Commission, which could ultimately result in sanctions for disrespecting the law of the European Union. Deputy Minister of Finance Ondřej The Závodský Party attached to this letter the opinion of the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing, which states that the Ministry of Finance has officially proposed the removal of Mr Fichtner's amendment from the notification procedure, which leads to the impossibility of further discussion and acceptance of this amendment. I have presented these serious facts to the members of the Committee on Budgets, as a result of which a resolution has been adopted -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u23	My colleague, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask your party colleagues, in particular, to let you recite in peace and present your speech to this important press, or to transfer their discussions to the lobby. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u24	So that it won't be forgotten, I'll just repeat the last sentence. I have brought these serious facts to the attention of the members of the Committee on Budgets, my colleague, through Mr President, as a result of which was the adoption of the resolution of this Committee number 174, on the basis of which the discussion of the House press was suspended until the period of renotification of the proposed amendment. For this resolution, Mr Deputy Minister - who knows the same thing as Andrej Babiš about the issue - I think that is absolutely nothing - 19 Members voted and one abstained. No one opposed it. It is therefore clear from the vote that almost all the members of the YES voted in favour. Only one member of the Budget Committee has abstained. I have further evidence here - the minutes of the budget committee. [[19.40 hours]] In view of the interest in the new regulation of the currently incompatible lottery law and other similar games, I have repeatedly asked the Ministry of Finance's staff at the already mentioned meeting with Deputy Minister Závodský whether this renotification has already been accepted. In this context, however, I have only received the answer that it will no longer be accepted, given the fact that a comprehensive draft of a completely new law is being prepared, which will address the issue completely in accordance with the law of the European Union. It is so clear from the above that throughout the legislative process I have acted fully in accordance with the opinions given to me by the competent authorities of the state administration, especially the Ministry of Finance, perhaps still managed by the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. I would also like to reiterate that this was precisely the Ministry of Finance subordinate to the Prime Minister, who informed the President of the Chamber of Deputies that the proposal in question by Mr Fichtner, as well as the related amendment by Mr Fichtner, is not in accordance with the law of the European Union subject to the notification procedure and, if adopted, the Czech Republic is exposed to the real risk of sanctions by the European Union. Here I have no choice but to remove the way in which the First Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš tried to distract himself from the failure of his subordinate office to prepare new legislation on gambling. Two years later, he was unable to deliver to the House a single draft amendment to the Lottery Act, which would have gone further than the first reading. For Mr Fichtner's proposal, it was the Minister of Finance who officially informed the House that this proposal was incompatible with the law of the European Union and called for the suspension of its further negotiations. And for those who have not yet understood what I have actually read in the budget committee for paper - which is probably prepared by lottery companies according to Andrej Babiš's statement in Právo 20. 6. - that was the letter from the Ministry of Finance signed by Deputy Secretary Ondřej Závodský. I consider it to be something far beyond ethics and elementary decency to denounce the rapporteur of this press, who informed the members of the budget of this position and the request of the Ministry of Finance, of the fact that he was the cause of the cessation of the legislative process. I understand that this way of twisting reality and misrepresenting the cause is easier and more acceptable for the voters of the first Vice-President and the Minister of Finance than if the President of this party had to appear before his constituents and admit that the proposal, which was drafted in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and presented with great glory, is incompatible with European law and will request its withdrawal from the hearing. However, I consider it absolutely necessary for the public to know who really was behind the withdrawal of this proposal from the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. I published evidence of this claim on my website today. And as much as my conviction goes against it, I'm willing to bet the Minister of Finance on anything that all the claims I made today are true. In the light of the above, I must strongly define myself against any attempt by the Minister of Finance to blacken my name, as it is more than clear from me that I have always acted only in order to adopt such legislation, which corresponds not only to national law but also to the legislation of the European Union. And if anyone demanded the termination of Mr Fichtner's present proposal, it was not Ladislav Šincl, but the Minister of Finance himself Andrej Babiš and his subordinate deputy, Ondřej Závodský. I wanted - I have been warned by many colleagues here to shorten my speech, because they are probably tired of it - to use the presence of the Minister of Finance today. I'm very sorry the Minister of Finance isn't here. I was going to ask him if he's still claiming that I'm a naughty MP to present evidence of his claims in front of all of you. In case he doesn't bring them here, let him at least apologize. At least he'll apologize to me and to the entire Chamber of Deputies for his other statements he made in Article 20. Six, where he said there were four and five thieves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u25	I thank Mr Ladislav Šincl. Before we proceed with the de facto remark of the Vice-President of the House, I will read the apologies. Minister Marian Jurečka apologizes from 19 o'clock for the reasons of the ministry, Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel, Mr Herbert Pavera, Mr Marek Černoch, Member Helena Válková, Member Pavla Golasowská, Member from 19.30 and Mrs Marie Pěnčíková since 19.30. I therefore now ask that the Vice-President of the House of Bartošek take the floor on factual points with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I expected a professional discussion on gambling taxation today and that I would ask the Vice Prime Minister a few questions to which I would be given answers. Unfortunately, it is rather shaken here, if there are 36 degrees and visibility in Dubai, 14 kilometers, and not the expertise of this proposal. I will therefore shorten my speech, although I do not want to underestimate the Minister of Transport, but I am afraid that he cannot answer some of the questions, and I will only ask the questions I would ask the Vice Prime Minister. The first would be why, in the long run, he advocated gambling taxation in direct conflict with the Ministry of Finance's expert opinion, when his proposed taxation clearly stated that the market would fall by 18 per cent and the decline in public revenues would be 500 million, i.e. Half a billion. That's one of the reasons and clashes he couldn't explain to me permanently. Next, and that's probably the most important thing. Thanks to the fact that the Vice Prime Minister is not present, he has driven the entire Chamber of Deputies to a dead end. Because if we say it's a very fundamental law, and I think it's a fundamental law that concerns taxes, so if we say "it's a fundamental law in Mr. Vice Prime Minister's gesture, it's important that he's here, let's wait for him to come and defend it" and say "let's cut this point," so everyone who's in favour of breaking the point will ultimately be labeled as those who are naughty and don't want gambling taxation. If we approve this material, and I'm telling KDU-ČSL that we're in favour of approving an increase in gambling tax, it's about him saying, "Look how well I've arranged it, I don't have to be there, it actually works without me, I set it up well." And the entire Chamber of Deputies is placed in a very unfavourable situation, because it is not really a professional debate right now. And I think that this should be the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to put forward the forces of argument. If I had told Mr. Vice Prime Minister's jargon, his business jargon - and as he often compared the state or Chamber of Deputies to the company, Andrej Babiš is a financial director in this company who answers to the Members who are the Board of Directors. The Chamber of Deputies is the body to which the Minister of Finance answers and not the other way around. And I think this needs to be remembered all the time. [[19.50 hours]] For example, I wanted to ask whether this law and prepared to drive the Czech Republic into arbitration. Whether the Treasury clearly has documents declaring that they are acting competently and correctly. One of the things that seems to have vanished in the course of this law is suddenly the already mentioned infringement, which threatens us from 1. 1. 2016. And we are wondering if the Vice Prime Minister has any document that says that he is acting in Brussels and will not issue the Czech Republic the penalty that threatens us. That's a thing I don't have an answer for, for example. We've only defined the area of gambling that we're going to get more money out of it. I say yes, it is right to gamble, but the task of the Chamber of Deputies, the Government and the Minister of Finance is to protect this republic from the greater damage that may occur. Among other things, because the Vice Prime Minister failed to prepare the law in time, the Czech Republic is losing almost one billion to the state budget thanks to its fear of illegal gambling. That's also one of the things I didn't get an answer for. And thanks to the fact that the Vice Prime Minister cannot answer me whether he has negotiated for the third time an extension of the deadline, whether the Czech Republic will not be subject to sanctions by the European Union, I cannot answer whether we will ultimately pay the penalty because, possibly due to its inaction, we will all, all citizens of the Czech Republic, pay the penalty. These were the questions I wanted to ask and I'm not getting an answer today. My mind struggles with the feeling that, on the one hand, I think it would be right for the Vice Prime Minister to be here and defend this material and answer because this material is to be discussed by experts. On the other hand, reason tells me that the material needs to be supported and approved. I am sorry that the Vice Prime Minister is not here, because if we do not talk about materials at expert level, I am afraid that any other discussion is losing its meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u27	Thank you to Vice-President Jan Bartošek. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u28	I would just like to say briefly that, of course, we discussed this amendment, not of course, but we discussed this amendment on the subcommittee on taxes, customs and lottery. I asked the question about the estimated revenues, and I got the answer that it was based on data from 2014 on the size of the lottery market. And because we know that many municipalities and cities are adopting prohibition decrees, the size of the market can change. What is written in several materials in various institutions that comment that there is no expert impact study. I'm not gonna question anything here right now because I won't dare. I'm not the one who snaps his finger and says, "This is how it's gonna be." I want to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we're going to be deciding on something that's missing material, a study that could be more realistic, and we don't know exactly the impact, even though it's claimed by the petitioner, possibly explanatory reports. That's all, thank you. I could use a few more seconds. Clearly, there is an agreement in the Chamber of Deputies to release it further. I think the crucial decision-making will be at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Kalousek is now in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to ask Vice-President Bartošek through you, I didn't understand his point. She contradicts herself inside what he said. He said, if I quote it right, "I'm sorry that Vice Prime Minister Babiš isn't here, the problem would deserve a professional discussion." [[Cheer from the left.]] What do you want, Mr Vice-President, through Mr President? Do you want the presence of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš or a professional discussion? Both together are not possible, we've already checked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. I don't have anyone registered for the debate at the moment. I see no one, and the debate is over. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word. The rapporteur with the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u32	I therefore assume that the shortening of the period between first and second reading to seven days has been read and will be voted on. Well, that's just a very shortcut. I'm gonna answer a few things here. I wouldn't really want to be dramatic, and I'll forgive myself for a lot of things. I think that if my colleague Šincl here had spoken for 14 days, he would not have exceeded his shadow, but I would have wanted from his discussion, which was not directly related to this law, or rather, one big contradiction. On the one hand, he says that he is the naughty Ministry of Finance and the naughty minister by not making the law in time, postponed and significantly favored gambling. Then I do not understand why he ordered me to submit an amendment, which will at least tax it at 25 percent. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Then it's a bit of a contradiction. Otherwise, thank you. Thank you so much for the fair hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u33	In addition to the debate, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u34	I can't not react. I am touched by the blind loyalty of the subordinate minister Babiš, a subordinate member of the Volný Member. However, I would like to point out that we are all equal here, some of us are first among equals, but we all have the same mandate. If any of us say "I got an order and I didn't understand it, I did it," I would immediately recall such terms as the law of enforcement and "jawohl, mein Führer." [[Cheer from the right.]] Get a grip, ANO colleagues. Do you really want to follow orders from someone who is completely foreign to democracy?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u35	Minister Tok reporting. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to open the debate once more with this, with a proposal to shorten the deadline to seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. I know you said that in your opening words, but no one repeated it in the debate. The debate is open. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek is reporting in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u38	Excuse me. I know why seven days. Seven days, not so we can make it, 'cause we can do it in eight days. But seven days because only then will your Führer have time. [[Cheer from the right.]] So I'm vetoing on behalf of both two MPs for seven days and with the agreement of the petitioner, I hope you'll give it to me, Minister, eight days, because your Führer won't have time to do it or he'll have to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u39	The rapporteur's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u40	Okay, so it doesn't have to be read by the Volný Member anymore, Mr Kalousek is right, eight days is enough. I'm asking for a cut as much as my colleague Kalousek for eight days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u41	Mr. Chairman of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák. Calm down, please. Roman Sklenák is the chairman of the Social Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u42	My friends, I don't even want to get involved in this for the Treasury and the rapporteur anymore, but if we cut to eight days, when are we meeting here for second reading? And then between second and third reading, there are 14 days that can be shortened to a maximum of seven days, so when do we meet for the third reading? I don't care, I suggested a procedure that was seven days, meet here on Thursday 5th and 13th November for the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u43	I ask if Mr Vondráček, as acting chairman of the club, has also applied. No, in that case, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. I understand that President Sklenák knows more than I do and the rapporteur Volný. Like if it's eight days, the Führer won't have time. But we could have discussed this bill on Friday. If Prime Minister YES, Minister of Finance, the first Deputy Prime Minister to celebrate in Dubai on October 28th, I don't know what, but certainly not the festival of the Czech Republic, if he had fulfilled his duties on time and properly, we had the law on Friday. You have calculated when again between Dubaj, Agrofert, Nice and I do not know what other duties will have the grace and time to visit us, and it has come to you for seven days. I say eight days, the Volný Member agrees with me eight days. I, on behalf of two MPs, TOP 09 and ODS, veto seven days, nothing you can do about it, and I'm offering you eight. You can veto anything until you're 30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u45	That's right. Another point in fact, are we in an open debate, colleague Fiedler, if he applied? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it's very important that we register, I'll remind you, what was said here a moment ago in the debate that this amendment taxes legal fees. I understand it as meaning: Yes, this amendment does not tax illegals. It's the same thing. What does that mean? There's been a lot of talk about mucking around here. Am I to understand that the petitioner is being naughty with the illegals? That he's giving them the tax break?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u47	That was the last factual point in the debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. Mr rapporteur, please sum up the debate. I just have to say, according to the Rules of Procedure, that we really cannot vote on shortening the deadline to seven days, which was presented in the debate and which the Minister said in his opening report, and that therefore the only possible vote is either eight days or 30 days and so on. Since there was no motion to dismiss, we will continue to deal only with the commandment of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u48	So I assume that ninety and seven days were vetoed by two MPs and now the only one in the game is to vote on eight days. I recommend voting on eight days, shortening the deadline between first and second reading to eight days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-035-01-001-001.u49	Okay, thank you. First, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. In the vote of order number 4, which I have begun, I ask who is for the commandment of the Committee on Budgets as the Committee on Guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 4, 117 for 113, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone else have a proposal to order another committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on a reduction in the deadline for discussion to eight days, in the vote number 5 that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 117, from the present 111, against 1. [[right 5]] The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgetary Affairs and that the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to eight days. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur, and I conclude item number 1 of this meeting. We'll continue with point number
