ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, as amended, and some other laws /house print 309/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the proposal. I'll ask you, Madam Secretary, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a slightly longer opening word here, because this law is very demanding and has basically not been here for almost a year, it was read to the first reading many months ago. The Regional Development Act is very crucial for the Czech Republic, for regions, cities, municipalities and, of course, not least for the state in terms of drawing European funds. I would like to introduce you to the contents of the entire government proposal for an amendment to the Regional Development Support Act. The objective of the part aimed at promoting regional development is to clarify the way and conditions for the preparation and use of strategic national and regional documents, to bring regional development aid legislation into line with current needs and conditions. The current -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u3	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, but I'm going to ask colleagues and colleagues to keep their voice down so that we understand what you're saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u4	Thank you. These current needs and conditions differ significantly from the situation to the year 2000, in which the original regional development aid legislation was designed. This is mainly about the distribution of the scope, part of the structure of administrative offices and, last but not least, also the procedural arrangements for, for example, the provision of subsidies. The terminology of the strategic documents is followed by the proposed modifications in the Regional Law and the Prague Capital Act. The part which is aimed at economic, social and territorial cohesion policy within this amendment contains proposals for a more precise definition of the scope, including the legal anchoring of the coordinating role of the Ministry of Regional Development, which has been entrusted to it only by government resolutions. The need to strengthen central coordination stems from the conditions and requirements contained in the European Union regulations and also from the Partnership Agreement, which is a roof document that has enabled us to obtain CZK 650 billion for the programme period 2014 to 2020. [[Silence for significant noise in the hall]] From this point of view, the draft also deals with the creation of conditions for setting up the implementation structure of the European Union programmes in the current programming period. [[16.20 hours]] Originally, the proposed adjustment and the creation of conditions for further action by the regional councils of the cohesion regions were aimed at. Following the negotiations of operational programmes with the European Commission, this solution was abandoned, given that the European Commission did not accept these regional councils, regional council offices, as an intermediate body within the Integrated Regional Operational Programme. In addition, the issue at issue and other conditions arising from the need to respond to the current state of play for the implementation of programmes from the European Union are governed by different amendments supported by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the Chamber of Deputies. These amendments include above all - I will then make a little detailed comment on each amendment. In contrast to the wording of the draft amendment to the Regional Development Support Act of September 2014, when the first reading was read here, the following changes took place. The conditions for the operation of the Regional Councils of the Cohesion Regions have been deleted as intermediate body in the programming period 2014 and 2020 and sub-schemes related to the completion of the tasks of the managing authority of the Regional Operational Programme under the 2007 and 2013 programming period. Furthermore, the Centre for Regional Development has been adapted as a service office, which confirms the integration of the relevant provisions concerning the newly established Centre for Regional Development of the Czech Republic as a service office in the legal order. Another amendment is the amendment of the Civil Service Act, which aims to enable the participation of regional council staff in selection procedures at the posts of some presented under the Civil Service Act. Another key change is the creation of legal conditions for the exercise of certain statutory cities as intermediate bodies of operational programmes in the field of integrated territorial investments, the so-called ITIs. We have seven in the Czech Republic. In this context, allow me to justify the need for the proposed adjustment of the City's liability for damage caused in the performance of the activities of the intermediate entity of the operational programme. I would like to begin by saying that the scope and manner of performance carried over by the city, including the links to activities carried out within its own remit, are not, in particular, comparable to those contained in the European Union regulations, to those provided for by the national legislation, in respect of the directly applicable arrangements contained in the regulations of the European Union, by the authorities of the local authorities or by other local authorities. According to the amendment, the city is to play a decisive role in the selection of projects through an intermediate body appointed by it. This is still relevant to the area of ITI, i.e. those territorial investments on which it gives a binding opinion to the managing authority of the programme. Here I would like to stress that the holders of territorial investment are therefore intermediate bodies and will select projects, which means that they are really involved in the programmes as an intermediate body. They shall give a binding opinion on them, which shall be respected by the managing authority. Of course, we are dealing with this primarily in the Integrated Regional Operational Programme. At the same time, however, the city will also fulfil other roles related to the management of integrated tools within its own remit. It will be the carrier, processor and also coordinator of the implementation of the integrated strategy, i.e. the reference document, in relation to which the acceptance of the evaluated project is to be assessed. The city itself will also receive subsidies for its own projects. The scope and method of involving the city in the administration of an integrated tool can lead to mutual influence within different scopes and conflicts of interest. The City, as an intermediate body, must therefore act with full responsibility, knowing that non-discriminatory and incorrect procedures in the selection of projects can also lead to damage resulting from possible non-payment of part of the expenditure by the European Union. The Ministry's role as managing bodies will, in accordance with the legislation adopted at European Union level, have an activity limited primarily to checking the correctness of urban practices without the possibility of intervening in the selection of projects, which means that it will be purely in the sense of the carrier of an integrated territorial strategy. We consider the proposed legal regulation of the city's liability for damage caused in the performance of the function of intermediate entity as the Ministry of Regional Development to be fully justified. It cannot be dealt with simply by contractual arrangements, because otherwise the State would be responsible. And here we really need to think about what our state is responsible for. The applicable Public Administration Liability Act applies only to damage caused to individuals where the State, which is primarily obliged to pay it, subsequently recovers the amount in question from the relevant local authority. However, in the performance of the function of intermediate entity, damage may arise directly from the State, provided that it is not reimbursed by the European Union funds for the intended contribution to support the project. This area is not covered by the Public Administration Liability Act. Thus, in the case of the performance of the activities of the intermediate entity, it is the performance of the state administration, in which any obligation imposed on the local authorities must be supported by legal regulation. A solution to responsibility for the function of an intermediate entity only through a public administrative contract could be called into question without appropriate legal regulation. I am talking about audits, I am talking about the management authority's procedures, which means that if someone is performing the role of an intermediate entity within the ITI, then they must also bear responsibility for their activities, which I am mentioning here. Without the proposed amendment, the Czech Republic would not have sufficient legal basis for recovery and, of course, reimbursement of any corrections that may be made by the carrier of the ITI. In view of the final check of the correctness of the urban procedure for the selection of projects to be carried out by the managing authorities, the proposed adjustment will only be applicable in cases of apparent abuse of the authority of cities, such as the conscious indication of false information or fraud. Here it is important to mention that all the adjustments - and not only in this law, but we are processing all the laws here and you approve that they will of course not...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u5	Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I will ask you, especially at this moment on the left side of the hall, to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u6	...that they wouldn't be abused. Now I would like to say in my introductory words about the Centre for Regional Development - we have already discussed this with our colleagues. As regards the regulation of the Centre, the amendment responds to the fact that the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Regional Development Support Act regulates part of the first to third law, which includes legislation effective from 1 January 2015, contained in Part 34 of Act No. 250/2014 Coll., on the amendment of laws related to the adoption of the Civil Service Act. The adoption of the Government's draft amendment to the Act in its original version was completed by Act No. 215/2014 Sb. canceled. The aim of this amendment is therefore to confirm the integration of the relevant provisions concerning the establishment of the Centre for Regional Development of the Czech Republic as a service office in the legal order. On that point, I would like to mention that the founder is the Ministry of Regional Development. The Centre for Regional Development was repealed by my decision at the end of May and from 1. 6. a new Centre for Regional Development has been established, i.e. there is only one Centre for Regional Development. Now, just briefly conclude on the current course of the legal draft procedure. The Chamber of Deputies discussed the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Regional Development Support Act at its 26th meeting and ordered it to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee appointed at its 22nd meeting on 23 April suspended the hearing of the proposal and completed it on 10. 6. and recommended that the relevant House press The Chamber of Deputies has discussed and approved the amendments already mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u7	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I note that, at first reading, we have ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 309/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Pavel Havíř, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u8	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, as has already been mentioned, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development with House Press 309,, which is a government bill amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, as amended, and some other laws, dealt with twice. For the first time at the 22nd Committee meeting on 23 April 2015, when, after a statement by the promoter, Minister Mgr Zdeněk Semorád, news report by MUDr. Pavel Havíř and the debate interrupted the discussion of this press. The press then discussed at the 25th Committee meeting on 10 June, when the committee after the statement of reasons of the Deputy Minister for Regional Development Mrs . Klára Dostálová, intelligence report by MUDr. Pavel Havíř and the debate adopted the following resolution: In point (a) the Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the press number 309 as amended by the amendments adopted, in point (b) empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, and in point (c) instructs the Vice-President of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. With regard to the justification for the amendments adopted by the Committee in the framework of its resolution, I refer to their factual form to the House Press 309/2, which is part of the resolution of the second committee meeting, and I would perhaps not be able to deliver very briefly to the Minister, because she, in her introductory speech, basically justified the amendments in a very detailed manner. I would like to say that the whole process of amendments was primarily the need to respond to the new implementation conditions of the Partnership Agreement for the planning period 2014 to 2020. It was also necessary to respond to the service law and the Centre for Regional Development as the central implementation body, subjecting the service law to this legal standard. This amendment was also balanced, and I think that it was not fully mentioned, with the continuity of the work of committees of existing regional councils, so that by the end of the previous planning period those committees and regional councils actually worked and took responsibility for the projects and activities that were in the previous planning period. The Act also provides for the cessation of the activities of regional councils following a notification from the Council of the European Commission on the termination of regional operational programmes. Last but not least, and this is what the Minister has been talking about, taxatically naming cities that will play the role of intermediate bodies on the basis of a public contract. As has been said here, this law has been in the House for quite a long time since the first reading. I think that cities and regions and, above all, regional authorities and regional councils are impatiently expecting it, so I recommend that it be forwarded to third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u9	Thank you, rapporteur, and I ask you to take your place at the rapporteur's table. I am opening a general debate. At this point, I am registering one of Mrs Fischerová's applications. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u10	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I'll follow up on the words of my predecessors. We have a women's window here now, the submitters are women, so I'm going to follow up on this government law, which is a little incomprehensible for many, because when European language and abbreviations get into it, then many don't understand it. But I listened, Madam Secretary spoke in whole words when I said it, and Czech, so I could understand it. But after all, there is a need for some practice, especially for people who have devoted themselves to this at the level of cities, municipalities, then regions so far, and against that, or I will tell expert teams, I have always called them Eurochildren, young skilled people who have really devoted themselves to projects that our Republic has won back billions of crowns so that projects from co-financing of the European Union can be realized at different levels. And now I'm going to really express myself on specific things. As I listened to the introductory words, whether the Minister or the rapporteur, there may not have been a word about what the current situation within the regions looks like. Because we know that there are still regional cohesion councils. They currently employ around 500 employees throughout the Republic. And so, as individual projects will be terminated when drawing from the planning period 2006 to 2013, the staff of these regional cohesion councils, or regional cohesion councils, will also be leaving gradually. In the meantime, as has been said, the Minister's decision has actually ended, or a new regional development centre has also started to work, when a new CEO is already appointed and there are branches in individual regions, in individual NUTS or statistical territorial units. Individual workers have also been transferred, some from regional cohesion councils to the Centre for Regional Development, and there is a need, as has been said here, for their activities to continue to develop, they have a background, so there is a need for an appropriate law to support this. I understand all that, it's okay. But in addition to all this, as the law was born a little while longer on the march, the service law entered into it to 1. 7. so the legislation must now be harmonised with current practice. I would like to say that, as we discussed and discussed it in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, so even though there was an amendment supported by the Committee, which Mr Havíř spoke about, I would like to add further observations, so-called. obtained from practice, which I would see amended to this proposal, which was adopted on 10 June on the Public Administration Committee. I just want to put it in part, but then I'm going to sign up for a detailed debate. We know that the Regional Development Centre, or CRR, as is very often used, will be financed from the Technical Assistance Operational Programme, which is only good. And now, on the two points, because I chose from the resolution adopted by the Public Administration Committee at its meeting, this concerns, in particular, paragraph 2 of the resolution given to this committee, both here and the previous speakers, that the Regional Council would cease its activities after the European Commission informed the Czech Republic of the closure of the regional operational programme. Since I know from practice that regional cohesion councils are currently quite busy because projects are being funded, and now, at this time, the situation of employees is quite necessary there until the end of the programmes, so I would see this point in the resolution as follows, and then I will sign up in the amendment in a detailed debate. And then the second thing, also said in the introductory language, is quoted: The city is obliged to compensate the State for the damage caused in the performance of the function of the intermediate entity according to paragraph 2. 15. The recovery of this damage shall be carried out in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure. We know from practice that cities are being affected by these responsibilities and bureaucratic burdens more and more, and here I see that this could be dismissed and dealt with so-called. a public contract between entities, and it is also cited in the preceding paragraph of the amendment, in paragraph 2. 16 specifically. I see this as a change to a given. And the question is, I know it's necessary for this law to come into force soon, she's already changed because it was supposed to be, I guess, as of April 15, 2015, so there's been a change to the deadline, I guess, 15 days after the announcement, yes, but I have feedback, I'll say again, from the particular people who work there to change the Labour Code on salaries, wages, etc., so there's a feedback to 1. 1. 2016. [[16.40 hours]] However, I do not put an amendment to this, I just wanted it to be heard here, so that it does not happen that, perhaps, half a month, the regional cohesion council will be paid differently than the other half of the month. That's why I'm just pointing this out. So thank you all for your attention and I will join you in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u11	I thank you, Madame, for your contribution to the debate, and I will ask the other Member, and that is Mr Bendl. No one else is entered into the debate at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, although there is no large list attached to this bill, it is not a law that is marginal and that can be really crossed because it determines a number of things and the functioning, the use of European funds and the functioning of public administration for the next few years. And I want to say this, in particular, because many of you, especially coalition Members, criticize the past and the poor use of European funds, etc., and we are in mid-2015 and we are dealing with a law that we urgently need to be able to make effective use of the funds provided by the European Union for the years 2014 to 2020. I beg you to listen to the data and when you talk here about how bad it was set up in 2005 or 2006, because that was when the drawdown was set for 2007 to 2013, so that you know that around the middle of the term, we have a law that we need to be able to draw money effectively for 2014 to 2020. That's important. Technically, we're going to get into trouble, or those who are going to draw on operational programs are going to get into problems that are related to personnel backgrounds. That means the old system is commuting and the new system is starting to run next to it. This involves the service law, which will have to - or which will be slipped into by the employees, or if you want officials who will work with those conditions and legislative facilities for the years 2014 to 2020, already laid down, and in addition they will commute projects and will need to be monitored etc. With this rule of N+2, that means something had to be ended by 2013, plus we still have old projects to check up on, and the whole bureaucracy to finish. This problem will meet us in practice and there will be a problem that actually people who will prepare projects and should approach it professionally in the future and also use it will be otherwise evaluated, because some will already be under the service law and others will not be under the service law. So the clerk will always behave a little differently. This was one of the things about which there was an extensive debate on the committee during each of its negotiations on this issue, that there would actually be disproportions and actually another perception of what was going to be and what would be in terms of officials. And even though it doesn't look like it now, they can - logically, because they will also be otherwise rewarded, they will be perceived otherwise - run the projects in a completely different way. We will only see what the service law will do to the functioning of officials in general, but this will apply to us for years to come. I would only like assurances from the Minister that he has or that he will have personnel coverage of both the commute, the crossing, both the end of the previous period 2007 to 2013, and the beginning of 2014 to 2020. The Minister herself admitted at a seminar that some of you visited, seminars to draw European money and to establish individual operational programmes and their approval - when the seminar was, by far the Czech Republic did not have all the operational programmes approved when we talked about it. But the background needed to be created. I would like to see if the Minister could mention here how she is prepared for this, or how the Czech Republic is prepared in terms of personnel. Do they not fear these problems, because I have listened quite carefully to the officers who criticized the situation of the two systems, when they will be under the service law and will process the money of European funds for a new period, and others will not, who remain just below those regions. How's he gonna deal with this situation? At the same time, they may also meet at individual offices or offices, whether this will be connected in the future or work separately. Because these are things that may be external techniques, individual applicants for support from European funds may not be interested in this, but it may cause problems for which you can get into the same situation that you are criticising yourself, or basically the coalition Members have already gotten into it, because we are really already in the period when we should draw on it, and in the period when other countries that are part of the European Union are already drawing European funds. I don't know about this in my country yet, that we're capable of it. At the same time, I would ask the Minister that the Ministry of Regional Development - the name itself says "for local development" - will carry out an analysis of the equipment in the future especially by the infrastructure of individual cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic, because the scissors, imaginary scissors of the development of individual municipalities and cities in the Czech Republic, I am deeply convinced, are opening up. We have regions that are able to draw money on cross-border cooperation and use it for individual publicly beneficial activities. We have regions that do not have borders with other countries and therefore do not use this option. We had regions that were able to use funds for the so-called Pharaoh before the Czech Republic entered. By 2004, this was a considerable amount of funds that some regions were able to make use of. And there are regions that haven't used them. I think it would be responsible if we were to talk about regional development so that we could at least know the elementary and basic amenities of individual cities and municipalities by what they need to live. So that we can also say what the priority is. At the joint meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, the Minister told us, among other things, that the state is also ready to respond to a priority which concerns reconstruction in particular of local communications. There is no such option in operational programs, as far as I know, and the secretary said it would be. It's written in blue on white. I don't know if the Minister will deny it or not, but when we sat together like this, she said that she was aware of it and that we should have some European money for local communication. According to my information, there will be no such means of local communication, and it is one of the important priorities that the municipalities really cannot reach on their own. The state should know that this is one of the major problems that the community will suffer in the future. Of course, recently, yesterday we discussed the need for playgrounds and support for civil associations, etc., I do not deny that this is not important. But to the life of the community, the basic infrastructure is necessary and necessary, and we should know whether we are able to help the municipalities in the future in regional development, or from operational programmes to the priority that I perceive when discussing with the mayors and with representatives of individual cities called local communications, pavements, public lighting, etc., investments that will certainly not be enough for budgets in particular for smaller cities. [[16.50 hours]] Therefore, I would ask the Minister responsible for regional development to tell us here how she is able to tackle this issue within the Ministry of Regional Development. Whether the government expects to support cities and municipalities in this area. In the event that the Czech Republic is unable to negotiate as one important priority the use of European money for these investments, whether the state will think of it because it is one of the things that I believe is necessary in the future in local development. Therefore, I ask very much to express, first of all, whether the Ministry is prepared to analyse the facilities of cities and municipalities in terms of infrastructure and to define any priorities for the future, and at the same time what we will do with the issue of local communications, because apparently European money will not be earmarked for this. And the state should address this issue because it should be aware that municipalities and cities will not have local communication. The third is the question of personnel, which, please just the assurance that we are doing well and that the system will not collapse, because we, I don't know, we haven't figured out the matter of the audit, so it went a little under the ice, so I don't know what the outcome was in terms of the dispute between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry for Local Development, whether we are ready to draw European money or not. The issue has not yet been raised here today, so I would like to ask, Madam Secretary, if you would assure us that everything is as it should be, and the potatoes are in line, or if there is still a dispute between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask another duly signed up for the debate, and this is Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u14	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, when we look at the numbering of the law that we are changing, we see that this is Law No. 248/2000 Sb., i.e. it is dated to 2000, when it was approved by the House. This is the year when the first elections took place at the conclusion of the regional councils, when actually the regions were formed, which then fully took up their duties in 2001. Structures began to emerge gradually, which then allowed European funds to be drawn up in the first initial programming period 2006 to 2013. I must say that those structures that arose under this law, namely the cohesion regions, the regional councils of the cohesion regions and regional councils, have fulfilled their role very well. Regional operational programmes have worked well and have enabled a very good and qualified distribution of funds, which has supported regional development in our regions. The fact that we see some mistakes in their work today is, in my view, quite normal and many of the accusations that are being made are then refuted on the basis of the legal proceedings. We have decided today that the Czech Republic has decided to take a different path in the area of regional development support than it did in the past period. It is therefore designed and promoted by the Integrated Regional Operational Programme. It may be a bit of a logical contradiction to talk about an integrated and regional programme, but that, in my opinion, is something that I think can no longer be done, the programme is probably already approved by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u15	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm gonna ask for peace again so you can hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u16	Thank you. So, as I said before, it's kind of a logical contradiction. The Minister spoke about the division of the territory of our Republic from the point of view of the regions into certain types. She spoke of integrated territorial investments, some regions of ITI, but I think she neglected to say that part of the territory of our Republic will not be included in these preferred territories, that they will be territories which are designated as territories in which an integrated territorial development plan will be applied, IPRÚ. For example. South Bohemia with the centre of České Budějovice or the region of Zlín with the center of Zlín belongs to these somewhat less significant, perhaps unfortunately, and that is what we fear, less supported territory. To be honest, I have not been able to find out on what criteria these divisions were based on, on which criteria those territories were thus divided. It is known, or at least from preliminary calculations, that a relatively significantly larger amount of money will flow into the territory of the first type, or territory of the ITI type, than into regions controlled under integrated land development plans. Another question has not yet been raised as to what role will be played by those local activities that, in my view, are prepared to facilitate the flow of European money into the territory, i mean local action groups, which are relatively well stabilized, which, in my view, manage to survive this period, where they do not actually have any resources for their existence, where regions, those who are interested in their operation, support local action groups from their own budgets. I think that within the third instrument, the third leg in the regional dimension, i.e. in the commodity-driven regional development, these local action groups should really play a very important role. My last point concerns the third part of that law, and it is kind of the first codification of something that is beginning to occur very significantly, these are the European grouping of territorial cooperation. This is something that actually has its origin in the provisions of the European Commission, which have already been approved a few years ago, and even some such European grouping of territorial cooperation is beginning to arise, however much information is not available between the public and, unfortunately, between politicians. The Danube-Vltava region on the Czech-Bavor-Austrian border is one region that has actually started to work. In fact, this region already has its own institutions, it already has some priorities, it is trying to get involved in the programme period. The Sub-Committee on European Funds and Cross-border Cooperation is planning its meeting after these summer months, which would like to dedicate precisely to the functioning of these regional cross-border programmes, whether they are cross-border cooperation programmes of the Czech Republic-Austria, the Czech-Bavia, the Czech Republic-Saxon etc., and then, of course, the projects and programmes that will be created in these European territorial cooperation groups. [[17,00 hours]] The fact that we're actually late here is something that my colleague Bendl mentioned. Only if we look again at what I started with, the date of the law that we're changing - No. 248/2000 Sb. The law was passed in 2000, so there was enough time to prepare all the competent authorities, which resulted from this law so that when we joined the Union 2004 and when we started drawing funds 2006 all these bodies were properly negotiated and properly functioning. The question of how much we will succeed now, in my opinion, is uncertain. However, we all need, regardless of our political orientation, our jurisdiction, our coalition, our opposition, to do our utmost to get the period properly started and, in particular, the regional dimension of the European programmes will start to work very quickly and rapidly and for the benefit of the regions, because I must say that all the active people in the regions are urgently waiting to start these regional programmes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So I'm still asking if anyone is reporting for a proper debate. I don't see anyone. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor before a detailed debate. After her. Thank you. I am therefore opening a detailed debate in which I am registering a single application, and that is Mrs Fischerová. I shall ask you, Madame, for your speech. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief in a detailed debate. I will refer to the number under which my amendment is registered, 2612. I have already justified this in part in the general debate. Otherwise, I will say that my amendment concerns, in particular, the point where the Regional Council is to cease its activities after the European Commission informs the Czech Republic of the closure of the regional operational programme. The second thing is in my amendment - the city is obliged to compensate the State for the damage caused in the performance of the function of intermediate entity. I want these two things to be crossed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u19	Thank you, Madame. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. In that case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. Madam Secretary has applied for the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the things that have fallen. I would just like to point out that we are dealing with the Regional Development Act here and not, for example, a monitoring system or an audit of the monitoring system and a lot of other things that have fallen. However, I will really respond to them out of politeness, to everything that has fallen here. I will start with Mr Zahradník, who spoke about cross-border cooperation and EGTC. Here I must mention that there are only two in the Czech Republic, respectively. I must say, this is an example of how over the last few years and past governments have been really promoted here. However, my personal objective here is to raise awareness of cross-border cooperation, which I also do by meeting with my anti-partners in Poland, Germany, Austria and Slovakia. I have visited several projects. And, of course, given that the Ministry of Regional Development is the managing body of the Czech-Poland programme, we are also dealing with where the money will go exactly. At the same time, MMR acts as a national partner for all other cross-border programmes. And here I have to say that, for example, the Bavarian-Czech programme is the third most successful programme in the whole of the European Union, i.e. 28 countries, respectively. It's still 27 times the number of operas times the ground. This means that we are the third best with one program, roughly from 400 to 500 programs. I think that's a great success. I would really just underline here, and I think it is also obvious that I am personally putting great emphasis on cross-border cooperation, and I hope that it will continue to work. I would also like to mention, through the President, the reaction to Mr Zahradník's remarks about ITI, IPRÚ and masks. We have seven ITIs, approved by Nečasův' government. The rest of the regional cities have the so-called IPRÚ. The claim of money is only in the partnership agreement with ITI. As regards IPRÚ, of course, the assumption of money is given in the national document on the territorial dimension, where I have approved its updated form at my meeting today, for example. So what's left is masks. And here I have to say, after the Department of Agriculture basically said that it didn't have enough money for masks, they're being paid off of cohesion funds, and where, for example, IROPs are actually taking a piece of money, and of course, they're going to be covered by technical assistance. So here I want to say that masks as such as the Czech Republic and our government see as basically those beneficiaries who are capable, have and are able to process their strategies, which therefore have to go through the wheel at the Ministry of Regional Development, because their largest part of which they want to finance belongs to the MMR Gesture within the Integrated Regional Operational Programme. Of course, we have money for them, and for them to operate either within the framework of projects or animation costs. So we're not starting a debate about the masks. We're basically waiting for it to start and they're about to start asking. So that's what's been going on here for the last four years. There's no point in going into detail. I would like to comment on Mr Bendl, through Mr President. I didn't quite understand the point, but I think I'm going to answer it the way it was meant to be between MMR and MF. Here I want to say that the audit that has been carried out has, of course, to do with how contracts were awarded in 2010, 2011, when basically our government is putting out again something that has been caused here by past governments. I want to say that the demonstration that is currently recorded in the monitoring system has already registered 5,000 applications worth about 46 billion for announced calls, which means about a month and a half after all the calls have been announced, is proof of this, and now take a picture of yourself whether the monitoring system works or does not work. Now I would like to respond to some of the references that have fallen here, for example the Centre for Regional Development, and I would also like to respond to Mrs Fischerová, partly in my response to all the remarks that have fallen here. CRR has been malpracticed within the scope of the service. Somehow, it's forgotten about the CRR. I had an obligation, or rather, there was no other way than to cancel it from my level and at the same time create a new reconstructed CRR where we changed the formations to match what the CRR would do in the future. Our goal is for every regional city, and I am talking about regional cities, to be branches of the Centre for Regional Development. Why? This is precisely because the ÚRR people are going to decline and they have their agendas for 2007 to 2013, and these employees will no longer be dealing with the preparation of the 2014 to 2020. They will, of course, be employees at the Centre for Regional Development. And here I would also like to mention to all those present, because the governments really took turns, that I am the first minister to deal with the situation of the 460 employees at regional council offices after legal travel, and I am doing something about it. So I reconstructed the Centre for Regional Development and we are ready to recruit and have already recruited 59 people to various locations in the Czech Republic to be employees of those regional branches of the Centre for Regional Development. The rest, of course, must already undergo the selection procedure under the Service Act. However, I would like to mention here if we do not accept this amendment, I, or the Centre, are unable to accept any executive from the Centre because it does not meet the conditions of the Service Office. So here I am saying again and again that the aim of this amendment is that the UR is not under the service so that I as an MMR can employ them and use their qualifications within the territory. So it's to the CRR. At the same time, I would like to mention that CRR employees are not only financed from OPTP, as has fallen here. The employees will be financed mainly from IROP and from technical assistance to cross-border cooperation, because the intermediate entity OPTP will only reach the period 2007 to 2013 and for the period 2014 to 2020, I have it at the Ministry of Regional Development, so it will not deal with this at all. I would like to mention that I think it is very positive what changes are being made within the Centre for Regional Development, regardless of what governments have been in power. We're looking at 460 employees. We have analyses of requests from individual regions, regional council offices on the number of employees to terminate regional operational programmes. [[17.10 hours]] Here I really just repeat, I mentioned it in April, I mentioned it several times already, MMR does not do it and I will not allow steps to be taken without being supported by anything. The regions have sent us analyses of how many people they need for what operational programme regional in individual NUTS, in individual regions. I would also like to mention that it is not possible, and I can never accept that our amendment, presented by us, should fall out, respectively, in order to add a term where regional council authorities essentially end. I cannot agree with that, and I would like to introduce the Chamber of Deputies, which will vote on this, with the fact that, until now, and we are here in mid-2015, two programmes from the 2004 to 2006 programming period are not completed. I believe that this is an absolutely relevant reason that no term should be mentioned there. Because you're ROP, virtually. their termination, audits will take at least another five or seven years. So what happened next here? As regards the staff of the ÚRR. We can't legally take over the employees, I mentioned that here, because of the deliberation, because of the legal error, virtually. The Centre for Regional Development is not included in the Service Act. So we and this amendment are trying to get hold of the fact that ÚRR staff qualifications will be acceptable so that we can recruit them to the Centre for Regional Development on the basis of a selection procedure under the Service Act. With regard to the remark made by Mr Bendl here, I would like to thank him for it through the President of the Member for mentioning that this law is key. He's very key. It is crucial for regional development, and not just for drawing on European funds, where all this has slipped. However, the law does not just deal with the drawing of European funds, it solves a lot of other things. I would also like to mention here what happened here both from Mr Zahradník and Mr Bendl that we are late. Yeah, but I don't know if we're gonna throw ourselves back in the middle of why we're actually late or something. It is not true that many Member States have already announced challenges and draw on them. It's not true. There are many states that have not yet announced any challenges. I am able to give you examples, but I would hate to put those Member States on the record of the Chamber of Deputies, so I would like to tell you in private. However, it must be said here that we have caught up with a lot of Member States by declaring these challenges. Like I said, now 46 billion. 5,000 applications registered in the monitoring system. As far as the further question about the amenities of municipalities in the field of infrastructure is concerned, I would very much like to do so if the public administration were not as decentralised as it is, there was no regional law and municipal law. So I'll take that as your subject, the incentive, I'll deal with it. However, of course, I must do this in cooperation with both the regions and the Union of Towns and Communities, because as an MMR, of course, competence, because there are two other laws, we have rather limited. To your last question about supporting local communications. I would like to say that I did not say that local communication within the IROP will be supported. I said I'd be bailing out local communications from the state budget by the Ministry of Regional Development. Municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants. That's what I want to put out a program for. While the Member, if I can speak to him through the President, is shaking his head, I do think that the Chamber of Deputies could welcome this, because Europe will simply not finance local communal communications to 3,000 inhabitants. So I took this as my own task, and I have already agreed with the Ministry of Finance that I will announce a programme by the Ministry of Regional Development to support local communications for municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants. At the same time, I would like to mention that it is also not entirely true that roads, for example, will not be financed from opera. They will. For example, twos, threes will be part of the IROP. Just like other things. However, on my part, I would like to thank you for all the subjects. As there will be other factual points, I look forward to them. However, I would like to say that we will take all the subjects you mentioned here to the body. I will focus on an analysis that we could possibly process in cooperation with others under other regional and local laws. And as for the other things, I think I covered everything. I hope that the Chamber of Deputies will pass this law as it is ready to go to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u21	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You actually answered all the questions, or a significant part that has been asked. Not all ministers do, which I'm sure they do. I also want to say that the detailed debate has already been concluded, so there is no room for factual remarks, only for priority rights. And with the first priority right, Prime Minister Stanjura is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u22	I would like to ask the Minister to come to the microphone one more time and open the debate. Because what she did, it's just not fair. There were questions, she said in the wannabe answer, I didn't quite understand it, I needed to explain it, but she chose a moment when the MP couldn't respond anymore. Of course he has the right. I'll pass on the form. I'm gonna bail out local communications! Well, I don't know, it's gonna be state budget money, not Secretary Šlechtová. Me, me, me, I've heard that a thousand times in your speech or your answers. And if you ask the question of how local communications will be financed, and the answer is: It's not true that they won't be financed from the opera house, they'll be financed by twos and threes - it's not worth it. Twos and threes aren't local communications. So you're answering something completely different from what Mr Bendl asked. Well, read it, the log. It's not true there's not going to be funding from the O.R., there's going to be twos and threes. I agree with that. The question was how local communications will be financed. And those aren't twos and threes. Don't be mad at me. That's completely different. You were saying that you -- you guys -- you're gonna be bailing out local communications in municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants. What about the towns over 3,000 inhabitants? Now you're saying how crucial this is, how it needs to be discussed and accepted. And if you recall - when did the law come to the Chamber of Deputies, Madam Secretary? Today is July 8th, 2015. And that key law, which is so crucial that we need so badly, when did it come here? This Decision shall enter into So, third reading, if we're gonna pass it on tonight -- and why not? - then we will vote in September 2015. Twelve months after he came to the Chamber of Deputies. And if the government minister claims that any law is crucial, yet without the opposition delaying him for one single second, he is discussing 12 months in the Chamber of Deputies, it itself shows how crucial it is to this government. And now I'm really asking you to come to the microphone and allow my colleagues to respond to your performances. If you don't, I'll consider it a sign of weakness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-011-015.u23	Thank you. At this point, no one is reporting a word. In that case, thank you, both the Minister and the rapporteur, and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. We will proceed to the next point that we have placed at the meeting, and this is
