ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-003-065.u1	65. The representative of the Karlovy Vary Region's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended /house print 202/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 202/1. I now ask that a member of the council of the Karlovy Vary Region, appointed member of the council, Mr Josef Novotný, state the bill. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-003-065.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government. Thank you for the floor. This amendment, which was first submitted under Nečasův' government, awaits many people who currently do not buy motorway stamps, many seniors who go to doctors, only occasionally go to meetings and so on. Now allow me to justify why he is presenting the Representation of the Karlovy Vary Region, which has exercised its right to legislative initiative and has agreed to the repeated draft amendment of Act No. 13/1997 Coll. on roads. The proposed amendment to the Road Act brings a change in the introduction of another possibility to pay a fee which would not only be defined by the time range of validity, but also the territorial principle of validity and its maximum prices are newly established. That means it's a systemic introduction of a new coupon, a new highway sign. We called it a regional one, and I welcome the initiative of the current Minister of Transport Ťok to deal with this issue, even if it approaches it in a different way than the proposal of the representative of the Karlovy Vary Region. The aim of the proposal was submitted by the Representation of the Karlovy Vary Region to the Chamber of Deputies in the previous parliamentary term, in February 2013, but this proposal was never until the first reading, because the first reading was due to dissolve the Chamber of Deputies. At that time, the government expressed a negative position on this proposal, which is why the Karlovy Vary Region redesigned the proposal and submitted it to the embassies of the Karlovy Vary Region for approval, and only then was it re-submitted to the Chamber of Deputies as it is in today's version. The representative of the Karlovy Vary Region has taken up the legislative initiative because of the need to respond to a certain gap in national law, regulating the charging of time charges, where this legislation already basically includes territorial scope, but only as a national one. The new proposal, which means this, basically consists in introducing a time fee not only according to the time period, but also according to the territorial scope, that is, according to the regions. The current legislation defines the time coupon for the motorway network for a whole year or for a shorter period, that is 10 days, a month, with the law setting an upper limit of CZK 1,500 and determining that short-term coupons per month or 10 days are set in proportion to the year-round. The exact prices are then set by the Ministry of Transport by decree. The new proposal would introduce territorial scope and, according to the borders of the regions with a maximum limit of CZK 300 for the territory of one region, thus allowing all drivers of the Czech Republic who regularly use only some part of the toll network legitimately to use only the freely selected part of the toll roads. So much for the amendment proposal in general. And now, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment here on the opinion of the government that has been distributed to you as House Press No 202/1 and which is dissenting. We assume that the government's position was probably prepared by the relevant department at the Ministry of Transport, because although the composition of the government was quite different, the text of the negative opinion of October 2012 means from the time of the Nečasův government, even from June 2014 it is very similar, and even in some paragraphs except a few words completely identical. In the first two paragraphs, the government takes the view that the proposal for change is inconsistent, non-systemic and that it is contrary to the long-term concept of the state. Once again, we see from this text that the proposal is understood as an exception not to apply somewhere, but it really is not. On the contrary. A completely systemically, conceptually and globally, another variant is being introduced. That means people will be able to choose, we'll give them another chance to choose which road sign they buy, and I believe they'll appreciate it. In addition to three existing variants of fees for the year, month or 10 days for the whole Czech Republic, the fourth possibility of a year-round coupon for the territory of the selected region or regions is introduced. [[16.10 hours]] There's no exception that it won't be paid anywhere. On the contrary, conceptual systemic measures so that the driver can also have a fairer alternative if he is using only a small part of the toll network. This means that the state register will also be filled, because those who have not currently bought motorway stamps are willing to buy the stamp for 300 crowns. The proposal does not introduce an exception, but extends the existing three possibilities of payment to another option. It is very likely that this fourth option will have considerable potential to attract new users of tolled communications. In the third paragraph of its negative opinion, the government does not agree with the argument on the minimum impact on the state budget and, on the contrary, argues that the adoption of the proposal will clearly lead to a decrease in the revenue from the time fee. I've already disproved this place, but I remind you again that the government has not relied on any qualified estimate or study or any model example. It's just a simple statement without any justification. In the fourth paragraph, the Government states that the proposal is not clear as it is not clear whether the regional validity of coupons should also apply to ten-day and monthly stamps. It states that if this were not the case, this could be indirect discrimination against persons of other Member States of the European Union. It is not possible to identify with this opinion. The current three types of time charges apply to both citizens of the Czech Republic and all other citizens of the European Union. The fourth option, which will once again be available to citizens of the Czech Republic and all other citizens of the European Union, will be added to these three. Most regions outside Prague and Central Bohemia have a certain border with another state. This means that even foreigners can buy 300 crown stamps for the region concerned. In the seventh paragraph, the Government has opposed the draft validity since 2015, which is factual and logical and can be agreed with it, which means that the validity would have shifted to 16 or 17. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been properly discussed by the representative of the Karlovy Vary Region and the law has been supported by a vast majority of regional representatives and citizens who have expressed themselves in the petition, and two and a half thousand signatures only from the Karlovy Vary Region testify that interest in this stamp is great. I would therefore like to ask you to move this proposal to second reading, and there could be possible solutions to any comments and to amend the whole legislative proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-003-065.u3	I thank Mr Josef Novotný. I now ask that the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-003-065.u4	Hello. Thank you, Mr President. We have listened carefully to the appellant's report and, of course, we have also taken note of the position of the Ministry of Transport, i.e. the Government's position. When we listened to the reasons of the translator and also the representatives of the Karlovy Vary Region, we realize that the law is needed at the moment, and we can basically welcome the position of the Ministry of Transport that it is preparing a more complex material. At this point, the House has the opportunity to pass the law to second reading in which it would recommend that the Minister of Transport, the government, submit a comprehensive amendment to the proposed solution presented by the Regional Representation of the Karlovy Vary Region. So from my point of view, I would recommend to the House that we advance the law to second reading, and to the Ministry of Transport that at second reading, through second reading, may present some complex additional elements. From my point of view, I recommend that the law be passed to second reading and discussed with the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-003-065.u5	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Schwarz first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-003-065.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I think I will disappoint the former Governor, although perhaps this is my opinion, but also the opinion of the Minister of Transport, when I consulted him on the matter this morning, and with my colleagues, and I would like to make a procedural motion in this way to reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-003-065.u7	I thank Mr Schwarz and I note his proposal to reject the proposal. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. I see no such person, so I am ending the general debate. I will call our fellow Members from the lobby and vote on Mr Schwarz's motion to reject the proposal. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. The number of people present has settled, and I am opening the vote to reject the proposal submitted by the Embassies of the Karlovy Vary Region. Whoever is in favour of rejection, raise your hand. Who's against it? It is vote number 96, 112 Members and Members registered, for 46, against 53. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee for this press. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 97, registered 120 Members, for 95, against 10. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I'm asking if anyone has a motion for another committee to discuss. If that is not the case, I note that the Committee on Economic Affairs has been voted by the Guarantee Committee, and I conclude the first reading of this bill. I thank both the rapporteur and the appellant. The next item is item 66, which is
