ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-007-066.u1	66. Government bill on public procurement / House print 637/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the proposal. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-007-066.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank all of you who have helped me to discuss this law today. I'll tell you why. Because the Ministry of Regional Development, including some of the members of you, has calculated the dates we have left to make this law effective. The new Public Procurement Act must be effective by 18 April, when we must transpose three European directives into Czech law. On 18 April from today, they are basically four months for the entire legislative process. So today is the last possible term for this law to be discussed at first reading. At the end of my speech, I will say the terms for the next reading and, of course, I will ask the House to shorten, not much, but at least a little, a few days, to discuss between the first and second readings. I'll start at the beginning with what we're in danger of if the law isn't implemented. 'Cause that's what I think is probably gonna stop each and every one of you. Therefore, I would like all of us in this hall to realise that this law is a priority of the Czech Republic, not just of the coalition, not just of mine, but of all of us sitting here. If the law isn't effective... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] If this law is not effective in time under the implementation of the European directives, we are at risk of suspending all European subsidies that we have received for the 2014 to 2020. I'd like this information not to fit in here. I would like to inform in the introduction the whole context of the creation of this new law. In February 2014, the Council of the European Union approved three new directives. I would like to mention that two of them concern the review and supervision of public procurement. The co-president of this law is the Office for the Protection of Competition in the Czech Republic. These three directives regulate the area of public procurement and investment at European Union level. The Czech Republic, as well as the other Member States, resulted from this fact the obligation within two years to transpose new rules into national law. I would also like to mention that, in the meantime, the Government has decided on an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which has been discussed here recently, is essentially valid since 1 April. And in the meantime, of course, a new law should have been written long ago. I would like to mention that the new law arose within eight months, the ninth month we were able to discuss it at the government's meeting with all possible contradictions. To this law, and I would just like us not to call it that, because some of us are still calling it, it's a big amendment to the Public Procurement Act. It's not. It's a brand-new law on public procurement. This law looks completely different from the existing law. It is based on other principles, respects European directives and we need to respect that it is a law. It is not a version after 21 amendments to the Public Procurement Act No. 137, which is now in effect. I would just like to remind you again: the current law on public procurement has 21 amendments. In this way, no one imagines that, in fact, under this law, we should enter and use public resources within the entire contracting community or environment. The area of public investment is one of the key areas for local development, which is why, immediately after the publication of the final text of the new European directives, the MMR started preparatory legislative work and set the solution to the task as a priority for its activities, the entire Ministry of Regional Development. The Ministry's priority effort was and is still to create legislation that will be understandable for all parties to the procurement procedures, which will reduce the administrative burden, make the entire procurement process as effective as possible while maintaining transparency and equal access in its course. In connection with the preparation of new legislation, several groups were established on the Ministry's soil. I'd like to hear from my mouth that I'm not presenting a law that no one has ever seen. It's a law that may have seen together, I don't know, 5,000 people, 10,000 eyes. It is a law that has been discussed on the ground of expert groups, where they are members of the professional chamber, academic sphere, entrepreneurs, self-government, all contracting entities, whether sectoral or public. So this law was really discussed by A to Z with all of them. At the level of the Minister for Regional Development, the College was formed, where the top representatives of these institutions were the very ones. At the same time, I have created a group of Members and Senators in advance, in January 2015, and I would like to mention through the political spectrum, that is, through all your political clubs, both at the level of Members and Senators. I would like to thank you from this point of view to all of you who took part in our negotiations every month because you have shown interest in the state of the law and, of course, the process of its establishment. The form of the bill, which came out of a demanding inter-ministerial commentary procedure, where I would just add that we received about 3,500 comments on the bill in general, and if you take the time that was given to me after taking up office, that is, since January, basically this year, we have managed to deal with the comments. Overall, there were 1,500 contradictions, really fundamental contradictions, and then this material went to the government with 60 contradictions. The government postponed this law in the first act because we were dealing with commodity exchanges and expanding owners, which is the key thing I will introduce you to. And then the law is brought to the Chamber of Deputies without conflict. According to the schedule set, the final form of the new bill on public procurement was delivered to the Legislative Council of the Government which discussed it. I must say that the Government's Legislative Council has been discussing this law for about 12 hours, because, of course, this law is very demanding, it is completely new, and the members of the Government's Legislative Council have shown an enormous interest in bringing it forward to both the Government and the Chamber of Deputies formally and factually well. On the basis of a government debate, the following new facts were included in the proposal: For major public contracts, the obligation to appoint an evaluation committee was maintained. The possible extent of the so-called "possibilities" has been reduced. Multi-working from 50 per cent to 30 per cent of the original estimated value, i.e. maintaining the current limit. Let me just remind you that European directives propose and allow 50 per cent for more work. However, I would also like to say here that what the European directive allows for, 50 per cent, which seems very strange to us, is that the multi-work is 50 per cent per change. When you have 20 partial changes, that's where 50 per cent is counted for each change. So it's going to be over the limit. Our law is stricter. We said 30 percent and cumulative. This means together, total to all changes, total to 30 percent and not more. As it is now. The draft law was exempted from the exemption for administrative offences in co-financed public procurement. The competition authority will therefore review co-financed contracts where the contract has already been concluded. The bill was enriched with the solution of the supplier's property structure. In the case of a selected supplier, a public limited liability company will be obliged to examine whether it has shares other than book-entry shares. In the case of anonymous owners with a Czech supplier, the contracting authority's obligation to exclude such a winner from the procurement procedure. In the case of foreign suppliers, the contracting authority must submit a query to the owners of the shares above 10 %. Furthermore, the winning supplier will be obliged to make a statement about the real owners. Following the approval of the law, notification must take place with the European Commission, where the compliance of the law with the directives will be examined. The effectiveness of the new legislation, as I have already mentioned, is 18 April 2016. If I were to select only some key amendments to the bill, I chose about six, which I would like to introduce you to. And this: The proposal for a new law brings several options for identifying an extremely low bidding price. At present, the law merely provides for an obligation to compare the bid price and performance, but it does not give other options or instructions on how to meet the obligation. Our proposal for a new law allows contracting entities to define in advance in the tender documents a formula for the calculation, or to determine directly the price at which the tender prices will be considered to be extremely low. [[17.40 hours]] The MMR envisages that we will also propose the way in which this formula is to be compiled, in our methodology to identify an extremely low bidding price. At the same time, we are working on the implementing regulation on the adequacy of the lowest bid price. Contracting authorities are newly allowed to exclude a supplier who has failed to prove himself with the contracting entity. Here I have to say that this is a novelty that will appear in our legislation for the first time in the Public Procurement Act. This is allowed by European directives. This means that in the past, penalties or damages have been applied to the performance of the contract. Furthermore, the law will allow for the exclusion of a supplier who has undergone serious professional misconduct. This is a completely new approach in the context of Europe, which has so far been inadmissible. The new European law formulates this authorisation in general, but we see in the general wording the risks of various disputes about the legality of such exclusion. That is why we are working very intensively on this in our methodology, which is accompanying this law, and, of course, in cooperation with all the experts mentioned or my colleagues, which I mentioned, including representatives of the ÚOHS. The contracting authority will also be able to require proof of compliance with the qualification assumptions even after the subcontractor, i.e. subcontractors. It often happens to us in public contracts that subcontractors are sold and subsequently, of course, someone else is dealing with the contracts, which also eliminates the possibility of basically seeing to the quality of the subcontractors even if they were not part of the offer. This means that the directive introduces this possibility in particular because of the verification of the subcontractors, or whether the subcontractors are not in one of the situations which requires their exclusion. A novelty will also be the obligation of the supplier to submit the identification data of subcontractors, thereby informing the contracting entity of the persons present at the construction sites or of which companies provide what services. Here I have to say that this is very much acknowledged for all the contracting authorities that we have discussed, as well as for the authorities, because, of course, we are trying to eliminate any sales within the sub-contracting services. This is also linked to the introduction of direct payments to subcontractors, if they so request. The subcontractor will thus be more protected against the negative consequences of the economic situation of the supplier. This means that if, of course, the supplier fails, he will not subsequently pay the subcontractors. We sort of write it down in the law, how a sub-contractor is supposed to stand up to it. It is also essential that information on the method of invoicing is forwarded to all interested parties in advance and can be addressed to them. At present, the contracting authority is obliged to control all tenders, regardless of the fulfilment of the terms of the award, which puts very high demands on time and brings a high administrative burden especially on large public contracts, where many candidates have applied. Newly under this law, which I present to you here for the government, the contracting authority will be able to choose whether it is easier for it to control only the most advantageous offer, or if the evaluation is more complex, whether it first evaluates all offers and evaluates only those that are okay. This is also a big news that is highly acknowledged because we give the opportunity to either evaluate the best, or only those that are okay and not, for example, those that do not meet certain criteria for formal evaluation. The bill does not impose - here please beware, with the exception of major public contracts - an obligation to convene an evaluation committee. European law does not impose such an obligation, therefore there is no reason to regulate this area excessively and to put it as an obligation in our law. In particular, it seems problematic that, in the present situation, the evaluation committee actually decides for the contracting authority, but the decision is signed by the contracting authority, although it may not agree with the opinion of the evaluation committee. Here I have to say that these are, for example, things where the contracting authority even judges with some members of the evaluation committee, and if the project or contract is financed from the European Union, it will, of course, no longer be built, it will not draw up and there are errors. So that's what we've been trying to get into the new law in some way. Another problem is that, in the case of regulation of evaluation committees, it is necessary to set detailed procedural rules. These rules do not effectively affect the conduct and outcome of the procurement procedure, however, their infringement constitutes a breach of the law and the contracting authorities are in danger of financial correction. Here I have to say that we have responded and followed all the European directives in this law, but at the same time to contribute and help something we know that we are making the most mistakes. As the Ministry of Regional Development, we have all the information from all electronic tools, we have all the information about all public procurements in the Czech Republic, and here I have to say that these are the biggest mistakes that are caused, for example, by the cancellation of the selection procedure or, subsequently, corrections. A completely new one in this context will also be the obligation to identify the person who carried out the evaluation, which at the moment does not have to be. The proposal for a new law is a significant shift from the formal concept of the procedure. The contracting authority will be able to require the addition of any missing part of the tender, except for information having an impact on the evaluation. So the contracting authority won't have to exclude it for a trivial formal error, which I guess we all agree in this room that it happens many times if you don't deliver something signed or give something a copy, so we're giving space for the contracting authority to call on the candidate to deliver it subsequently. At the same time, the new proposal allows the supplier to adjust the budget for public works contracts, if he forgot, for example, to appreciate the item. It is really very difficult for buildings and we have tried to solve this thing by saying that the supplier can also adjust the flat budget under certain conditions. However, this change must not again affect the overall price offered. The supplier will thus have to take into account changes in other items. European directives give rise to a direct requirement to remove barriers to entry into the market of public procurement for small and medium-sized enterprises. In the law, we therefore introduce the principle that the primary objective of the contracting authority is to divide the contract into parts, especially in the case of large-scale investment actions. Only if there are objective reasons shall the subject-matter of the contract remain undistributed. However, the contracting authority shall be obliged to justify such a decision. This was about six such key areas that I had to mention here before the general debate was opened. I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to shorten the time limit for committee discussions between first and second reading to 50 days. It is precisely because we are really pushed through time, and I want to say here that I am personally worried that, as a national coordination body, we are dealing with a lot of infringements, that the European Commission's management may come against the fact that we have improperly implemented the European directives. I would just like to mention that we are scheduled to have committees meeting for the first and second week of January, where we are expected to be able to discuss our law in the guarantee committee and in other committees. We would have expected that from 19 January we would have been on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies for second reading and third reading at the end of January. Why? Because then the law has to be sent to the Senate, which has 30 days before it puts it in its meeting, and the time really runs. Thank you for your attention. I am, of course, prepared to respond to any questions. This law is the priority of our government, it is the priority of the whole coalition and I think it is the priority of the whole Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-007-066.u3	I thank the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Lukáš Pleticha, who has had enough material for this. [[He's carrying a briefcase and a pile of paperwork.]] And I expect one more procedural proposal from him after the end of the intelligence report. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-007-066.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, we approach the first reading of a very important law, which, apart from a few anti-corruption activists, is perhaps welcome and awaited by everyone - mayors, contracting authorities and entrepreneurs who supply for contracting authorities. This law aims, on the one hand, to transpose directives, but, as the Minister has already said, also to remove various such unsolvable places, unsolvable situations and complications that have proved to be in the present, existing arrangements and which, in particular, have complicated life for contracting authorities in relation to subsidies. This law also introduces some other partial changes, all hoping for the better, such as the innovation partnership procedure. [[17.50 hours]] The procedure should also be improved if someone contradicts the conduct of a public contract, the award of a public contract to the Office for the Protection of Competition. Even though I think it still has reserves there, we'll see, we'll talk about it in the committees as we go on. I think the debate will certainly be about the limits, as the Secretary of State spoke of them. Our options are much wider, and I believe that, at least for municipal needs, we should also look at increasing those limits from the current 30 per cent in multi-work and take over, for example, the European adjustment. I don't see why we should think of anything tougher for ourselves here. I think these are just some of the key points that, besides what has already been said, I'm intrigued. And since it is a law that I have no doubt will be debated here very much, here and on committees, I will just be very brief and, for reasons of procedural economics, I would also like to propose to merge the debate with the following House press, which concerns the Government's bill, which amends certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, so that, for reasons of procedural economics, we can discuss this at once, because both are related. So that is my proposal, and I will allow myself to end my report right now and let us go to the next general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-007-066.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, for your report and the procedural proposal to merge the debate on paragraph 66 and 67, I will vote without debate. If we agree to this, I will interrupt point 66, I will begin point 67, and then we will start the debate as a whole. So we will decide on the merged debate on paragraph 66 and 67 in the vote number 33, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of merging such a debate. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 33, 155 for 113, against no one. We will therefore negotiate in a debate merged on two points and therefore interrupt the Government's bill on public procurement and open item number
