ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u1	64. Government bill amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and other related laws /house print 590/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me introduce and put into the first division the Government's bill amending the law on promoting sport, as amended, and other related laws. The Law was submitted in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan, with the emphasis on strategic management of sport support being an essential element of the proposed legislation. The proposed amendment introduces a new definition of conceptual documents in the field of sport at national and regional level. At central level, the content areas which are mandatory under a State policy plan in sport replacing the existing concept shall be newly established. The plan includes, in particular, the objectives of state policy, the definition of priorities and criteria for financial support for sport from the state budget, measures against the illegal influence of sports results and measures on the dual career of athletes. The draft law introduces a new obligation for regions and municipalities to ensure the conceptual development of sport in their territory on the basis of strategic documents. All these conceptual documents are also aimed at ensuring effective multi-source funding in the field of sport. The new proposal also demonstrates areas for which support from the State budget in the field of sport can be provided. This is mainly about promoting sports representation of the Czech Republic, sports of young people or successful representatives of the Czech Republic in the Olympic Games. Investment aid may also be granted under the draft law. The aim of this incorporation of content areas is to increase transparency in the provision of support for sport from public funds. It is also proposed to establish a register of sports organisations and athletes, which should serve in particular as a source of objective information for setting effective State aid policies in the field of sport. We also propose the establishment of the National Sports Council as an advisory body of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The new rules are also proposed for the area of support for major sporting events, for which categories of major sporting events are also recognised of particular importance. The promotion of major sporting events of exceptional importance is subject to the Government's approval. The request for consent shall include requirements for public finances as well as organisational, security, transport and other requirements relating to the organisation of such events. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports proposes to order a bill to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. At the same time, I would like to add some information in the introductory words concerning the register of sports organisations and athletes. It is a register of sui generis, the administrator of which is the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The Ministry is also the processor. It checks the truth, completeness and correctness. Failure to provide true data is an administrative offense. It is important from the point of view of personal data protection to say that the register is not public. From the outset, I consider the amendment to be sufficient and, of course, I am ready and looking forward to the debate between Members and Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u3	Thank you, Minister of Education. And now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Holeček to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies, gentlemen, colleagues, I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry of Education for finally presenting the amendment to the Sport Support Act after two years. The amendment to the law on promoting sport, although it is not a new whole complex law, as promised by the coalition treaty, is a step in the right direction, which will move Czech sport a little further. The mentioned register of athletes will definitely show us exactly how much funding is available for MŠMT sport, how many athletes, football players, hockey players, skiers, swimmers, etc., and thus more transparent and more precisely funds can be allocated. I will be very happy when the register, which is why it is also not public, will present the year of the birth of athletes, so that we can more accentuate the support of especially sports children and youth. Without such a date mentioned in the Ministry of Education register, it will be difficult to distribute more money between sports children and young people. I would also like to mention, and this is also in line with the government's programme statement and the coalition agreement, that we must not forget also coaches, instructors, teachers of physical education. Today, this group of residents and coaches is very far behind and very poorly financially valued. These are people who not only improve the techniques of our children and athletes, but even raise our children and young people and set the right example. Unfortunately, in that 20-year period back, sport in this area is at a dead end. He got into the dead end mainly because even sport today is organized through the Ministry of Education. Not that the ministers, the ministers of the previous ten years, which, if I count, have replaced 12, not that they may not have the will to take care of sport better, but, of course, because the service life of ministers in this ministry is so short, so they primarily deal with matters of education and sport often does not reach the ministry. Since this law and, above all, the submitted plan for promoting sport development for the next two years by the Ministry of Education has given the government as a fundamental priority the support of sports children and youth, where they would allegedly want to allocate up to 30% of all the funding that the Ministry of Education has for sport, I can only recommend and support it. I would like us to support the wording of the law, ladies and gentlemen, to proceed to second reading and order the committee, I presume to the school. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mrs Anna Putnová was the first to sign up. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u6	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues. I welcome the amendment to the Sport Support Act, however much we expected it to be a new law. The Minister mentioned in her introductory words that this amendment aims to improve strategic management. We are currently also discussing the amendment to the school law and I would very much like to see sport and school as one subject. I think that this would be a crucial step for strategic management in terms of sport, which would better light up priorities and then follow-up, such as funding. Now let me make a few comments on the novel itself. I will consider what has been mentioned here by the Minister, and I will begin with the most visible amendment point, and this is a register of sports organizations and athletes. I consulted with a number of experts on information systems and also athletes, and I concluded from this that the law should state that the sports register is one of the sports information systems, which will use information from the basic registers in the diction of the Act on basic registers No. 111/2009 Coll. and the whole other diction of the point of law should be subject to this terminologically and factually. The reading of data items in point 3a may be insufficient or impossible for certain sports. This detailed description is irrelevant to the wording of the law in my opinion. The register will need data from information systems operated by individual sports associations, associations for its functionality. In order to establish the use of subsidies on the register, it is necessary to clarify how the registration will be carried out. Will the unions register their members in any central database, or will they just report their members registered according to their own methods? That's a crucial question. When, according to the methodology of the Ministry of Education for drawing subsidies in 2016, is the data on members provided from 2013 sufficient? So it is necessary to clarify when and who will be involved, who can be entered in the register, because the law only talks about a sportsman and a trainer, but in the methodology for subsidies 2016 are defined as athletes in competitions active athletes, free-time athletes with monthly regular mobility activities, coaches, referees, organizational staff, officials and others. How will regular monthly activities possibly be monitored? How will the fact that some athletes are also members of several sports unions be taken into account? Another crucial issue posed by this amendment is the area covering the sport organisation, and this is the National Sports Council. According to what key should representatives be selected for the National Sports Council in the proposal? If it is to be an objective body, then the board should represent the interests of all athletes, not just those in the list. According to the proposal, the function of the Board will be fair and would not be paid for hours of work and independent examination of the requests of individual associations for grants. There is therefore concern that these members will pursue their interests, and I think that it would not hurt if we talked these things out before the council is established. I'm getting into the area of funding sport from the state budget. In my opinion, the law should impose that the financing of individual sports should take into account the costs of the sport and its social benefits. This is a topic that we have already mentioned on the school committee's premises several times. Will we support motor sport and athletics in the same way? The law should also define the role of the Olympic Games in supporting major sporting events and ensure that all sports have equal conditions. In complexity and financial complexity, it will also be difficult to qualify athletes for the Olympic Games, and the size of the sport in the world appears to be a key and legally neglected parameter. I would like us to look at the role of the central authorities in the field of sport in the next discussion. I am thinking of the Ministry of Health, which issues conditions to support preventive medical assessment in the field of sport, and a number of sports associations see this as a big problem for the functioning of all sports associations. First of all, it is the decree of the Ministry of Health No. 391/2013 Sb. The last point, but far from the least significant, is the issue of action against doping. I would recommend that we determine by law the percentage of the total amount that will be used for the equal ratio of tested athletes, and please all categories, i.e. from the youngest pupils. I presume we'll take a closer look at this amendment on the school committee. TOP 09 recommends referral to second reading. I want to say that the ambition for the financing of sport to be transparent cannot be met by this amendment. We really only got by half a step, and if funding for sport becomes a topic for the nearest future, I would consider it the best possible in a given diction of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u7	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u8	Thank you for the floor. So first, good news for the Minister - we will not propose rejection at first reading. That ends the good news a little bit. In general, I would expect the Ministry of Education to take care of our beautiful Czech language. If you look at the law as it's written, it didn't quite work out. I would ask for a semantic explanation of some paragraphs, because it's really smiling what the official language does with Czech. But first, a few specific questions. Paragraph 2 defines who can apply for aid - or maybe Section 3, hold on for a moment. Basically, it's a sports organization that performs... For the purposes of this law, a sports organisation is a legal person established for a purpose other than profit, where the subject matter of the activity of that legal person involves an activity in the field of sport. I understand. Does this mean that they will automatically be excluded from the support of professional clubs under this law? In sports such as football, ice hockey, volleyball, basketball, where according to Federation regulations it must be a trading company that is licensed and operates the sport. And, of course, the company is founded for profit. So I want to ask whether this is conscious and we automatically exclude all business companies that operate especially top sports - and I note that this is a condition for you to get a license and that competition to play at least in those four sports that I know are safe to play, for other sports it may also be, but I don't know - that is, can't run a legal person who isn't founded for profit, such as extra-lig hockey, prvoligo football, prvoligo basketball or prvoligo volleyball. If that's what the law-maker means, let's make it clear to everyone, even to these clubs, that if the proposal was adopted in this form, it would be illegal to support them. The question is whether only illegal by the state or even illegal by public budgets in general, that is, from the budget of the regions or municipalities. That is what I think needs to be clarified, if not today, then during the committee hearing, and possibly adjust the diction, unless it was intended. If that was the intention, then I understand it, but it is necessary to interpret this law from the beginning that it will just be that way. [[14.40 hours]] In my opinion, the weakest part is Section 3a, the record. And here I'll try to quote something in case the secretary listens to the Czech language. Sports organisations applying for support under this Act shall be entered in the register. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 is obliged, without undue delay, to enter in the register these data and their changes, e.g. information on the sport organisation that is grouped in it, in the scope of points (a) and (b). - So the sports organization will enter in the register the information about the sports organization that is grouped in it. I think that's a very vague sentence. It means for example. that the Czech Moravian Football Union is the person who will write the individual clubs that are associated in the Czech Moravian Football Union? Does this mean that when a village troop from the village in which I live accepts a pupil during the course of a year who will receive a registration card for a junior competition or a district championship, will he be obliged to report this fact immediately under penalty with all this information? Well, I think that's what it means, because there's everything that this sports organization has to write, whether it's a collective or a separate one. Because a date has to be written from when an athlete or a trainer takes action, i.e. in the case of Slavia Malá Hoštice, to be specific when on 10 September we persuade some sophomore to become a member of the group, so how long before the sports organization has to announce this change to the state, register, Ministry of Education and Youth, with the fact that there will be a date of birth, place of permanent residence, perhaps the size of the kicks, it would not be from the point of view if we were running it. I think, and we're going to propose that we release the entire paragraph. It's completely unnecessary. I don't know what that register's gonna do for the Ministry of Education. I understand that, and I think that's a much better way, when I write a grant title, I can put, for example, in the terms of the title, that it will prove the number of members in the section, union, union, it doesn't matter. And it's common, it's not news, many of you are experienced local politicians, and this is quite common, that in urban or regional grant districts it's required of those applicants and it's also controlled. So I don't know why we should do this, because, without a doubt, those organizations will continue to ask for money from city and regional budgets. Logically. Who else would support small sections, especially those non-meat sports, other than cities and municipalities or regions? Then why are they still sending data to the athletes' register? It seems completely pointless to me, and I'd like to know the main reason why the state needs it. What happens when someone quits their activities or when they transfer or one sport ends and the other begins? Then it's gonna be the changes... I wonder, Madam Secretary, how many do you estimate how many people are going to do this? What are the costs? Because it's so fancyly written that the registry is an information system for public administration. But the public administration's information system has some parameters under the law. It doesn't say anything about it here, and I wonder if the authors of the Ministry of Education have any idea who will create it, who will write it, who will serve it, who will pay the operating costs, etc. etc. I think there's gonna be a waste of money here that could be used to support the sport. The bill is very systemic - and it is very smiling again. See Section 6c Supporting major sporting events when you say in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 under what conditions it may be - but look at paragraph 4. Aid from the State Budget for major sporting events, that is to say the name of that paragraph, not referred to in paragraph 1, is granted on the basis of a programme pursuant to Section 6b. So what we're saying here is, legally, we're going to define significant sporting events, they're going to be entitled if they meet the conditions to support, but if they don't get the support, we're going to use another paragraph, unsystemically, and it's going to work. So once again, whoever has a wider elbow and a cleaner path, even though we pretend to be significant and that we have determined by law what is a significant sporting event, so if they fail, they will use it under Section 6b and it is already called Sport Support in the form of state budget subsidies. Is this a major event, or isn't it? Are they entitled to the money or aren't they? And maybe in paragraph 2 or 3, there's a significant change. So far, the concept of sport has been approved, and now, as I have heard at press conferences today, after two years of government coalition work, there is a significant change: we will not have the concept of sport at all levels, but we will have a sport plan. And that's it. I don't know why we're changing concepts, we're replacing the concept with a plan that makes a semantic difference. I need to explain why the concept is wrong and the plan is good. I consider it almost synonymous, but maybe I'm wrong, see what the difference is. The responsibilities of municipalities are quite generally set there. I know that many remain the same, it is only in another paragraph, but for example. The municipality ensures the preparation of sports talents within its own jurisdiction. Well, I'd like to know how, in a separate capacity. If those deputies are gonna be coaches, 'cause they can decide, make a decision, or I don't understand. If there is to be a general paragraph that would be appropriate for municipalities to support sport from their budgets, especially young people, I'm sure it is. But I'm asking why we should have it in the law. It is § 6 Tasks of municipalities. They provide financial support for sport from their budget. So it's like it's dubling. Or I don't know how communities in their own capacity are supposed to ensure the preparation of sports talents, and who actually determines who is a sports talent and who actually sports just because it amuses him, and doesn't have the ambition to be a top athlete. And maybe he's not that talented, but it's a good thing he's into sports. It's full of good intentions in the law, but if you read it in detail and think it through, you don't really know what it's for. What's going to help the sport? And I think that many of us agree that sport, especially to the mass or youth, the state, regions and municipalities, is supposed to help, but not to me by establishing a register and putting such vague wording into the bill. I think it is enough that the person who writes out the grant circuits is on time, informs about the criteria, informs about who sat on the evaluation board and informs about the results, possibly justify his decision. That's absolutely right. That's what I think we'd all be supporting. Then it seems to me, I don't know if it's based on the sports public, or if it's an initiative by the government coalition that we're legally setting up an advisory body at the Ministry. No offense, but I don't need a law to set up a minister or minister. The National Council could have been created yesterday, two days ago, a month ago, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, a month later. You don't really need the law to do that. I think you're going to choose the unions, the union, the credible people, you're going to ask for help, they're going to provide it, and the National Council can start working tomorrow, or after the New Year, so I don't overdo it, we have Christmas holidays and the end of the year. I really don't know when it's an advisory body, i.e. Basically, when I say this very cynically, they meet up, they deal with it, and then we somehow -- either we support them or we don't support them. I understand if there were to be any binding positions. Well, then, he's got to have a leg up in the law, but in the case of an advisory body, why give it up in the law? I don't understand. I don't know if ministers have advisors or any advisory bodies, probably, yes, it's very common. And they have it in the law of competence? I don't think they do, because it's completely unnecessary. Or maybe it expresses the deep distrust of people in the sports world that no one is talking to them, and at least they want it in the law. But in that case, I say - so let's meet them, we can do it without the law, we can show good faith without giving more and more paragraphs and paragraphs and new laws. The record is also linked to the proposed offenses and fines. There is, in turn, such a rubber formulation that the legal person is not responsible for the administrative offence if he proves that he has made all the efforts that could be required to prevent a breach of the legal obligation. And what I'm saying is that there's a $1 million fine, and sometimes there's $2 million fine. They're not negligible amounts. When you imagine a sports environment, for example, for some people that they didn't issue a sports pitch, design a million or two tickets, it seems to me that there's only that number to impress. Who's going to enforce the fines? And who's really gonna pay them? And which one of those really... Most sports groups...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u9	I am very sorry, Mr President. In particular, I will ask President Laudát for silence and other colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u10	Do we really believe that the vast majority of sports divisions are wealthy organizations that are able to pay a million or two in the event of misconduct? I don't think so. So I want to ask why there are such draconian fines. What's the point of that, anyway? We'll say that we've put in responsibilities, we've put in misdemeanors, and we've put in high fines. So? For example, it infringes the decision of § 7b that a particular sports undertaking will take place without the participation of visitors. So let's imagine the most popular sport - football or football. Very often disciplinary punishment is to play a game without visitors if there are any improprieties that I think we should fight against together. I will note that it is a legal person based for profit. Suppose he gets some support from the state budget, for example, to participate in European cups. Then UEFA will give some punishment of EUR 20,000 and maybe close the playground. At that point, there is an administrative offense, a fine of one million to two million crowns. That's not normal at all. If we step away from these fancy words, how we all want to promote sport - and I believe most of us want to do it. And many of us at City Hall have specifically demonstrated this by deciding to take care of the sports grounds. We in Opava opened the school playground for the public. We pay there in the sole responsibility of the administrator. Why build a new gym and a new playground when it's built in primary school? All you have to do is pay someone to make sure there's no destruction, and so on. We began to support children from families going on a ski trip, a small amount of money, so that there was no financial barrier, so that, if possible, every child could take ski training in seventh grade, and so on. These are concrete steps that take place today and daily in hundreds or thousands of municipalities and cities. And we now have a law on promoting sport, which I think has another purpose - to reassure the sports public that we're going to put more money into sports. I can understand that. This call is justified, in particular support for the construction, maintenance of sports sites, support for the sport of young people organized or unorganized is worth it. And we can talk about if we don't have an increase in the budget. Even the fact that it will concentrate, at least the money from the central level, on the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, is good too. But we don't need the law to do that either. It is enough to agree that the central grant titles relating to sport will only be written by the Ministry of Education, and will be filled. So I would ask the Minister once again how she sees the benefits of this law for sport. I certainly don't see them on the sports record. I really think that's a bad idea. I don't know what athletes look like, 'cause they're gonna do it. In their municipalities, regions give this information and I assume that if they receive subsidies from the state budget, it is also one of the conditions of the subsidy title. Why does the National Sports Council have to be in the law and not set up by the decision of the Minister or Minister? Why misdemeanors? Why is there a rubber paragraph on how a legal person will prove that she has made every effort not to make the offence happen? Some model example of how a violation occurs and how a legal person can develop. Why a million to two million? Why are legal persons excluded from this? I think those are the basic questions. But I think that all the things I've been talking about can be corrected during the second reading by better wording, release, addition and so on. So we are prepared to discuss this in detail, but I would ask that at least some of the questions be answered now, because we are not all members of the school committee, not all of us will be able to participate in the debate. Then I would very much hate to hear how I hear it very often: when it has already been spoken on the committee, do not delay it at second reading. I'm interested in the law, so I'm sure I'll do it at second and third reading, and I believe we'll convince the Secretary that she'll leave the record of athletes. Haven't you had enough of these registers? A record of contracts, a record of offenses, a medical register, a teacher's register. Now, the sports registry. And I said at an exaggeration that we should create a smoking register and compare it to a sports registry and see if there's any duplicates. But I'm kidding. I think we've had enough registers. And let's not give athletes more and more administrative responsibilities. I don't think there's any big money leaks. Perhaps some events are unnecessarily megalomaniac, maybe some stadiums or halls could be smaller, they would correspond to more population, whether in the city, regional, district or fallout areas, it certainly would. But especially if we mean supporting the activities of youth groups, there are no rewards or very low ones. Let's just say that. Many do it like their hobby. So let's not turn them into dirty suspects who have to report thousands of data, and the state will check the thousand data to send some money. Many will then give up for the very reasons, and I am talking about the smaller village sections, that they will not have the administration to write such a request at all, so that they are sure that what they are supposed to send to some register of athletes is good enough to know how to send it. Many don't even have a computer. Let us not live in the view of large clubs that have secretariats, they have administrative staff for whom it would not be such a big problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u11	I thank Prime Minister Stanjur. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u12	Thank you again, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to the performance of my colleague Stanjura. I have to give him the truth about the National Council. I even have an invitation to the 5 National Sports Council meeting on 17 December 2014 by Mr Marcel Chládek, who invited me because I was a member of the National Council at the time. Indeed, it is clear from the law of competence that the Minister can set up a national council without law, and I highly recommend it. I have to tell my colleague the truth in this regard. But what I can't give him for is the truth, and I'd like to convince him when it comes to the record of athletes. I do not know if colleague Stanjura knows, for 2016 some new programmes have been announced, which should support the sport of children and youth. How will the funds from the Ministry get to the youth? The best way to reach young people is to go directly from the Ministry to a specific small club and in a small village. The Minister suggested such a program, it is functional for next year, a number of clubs throughout the country, the Czech Republic, are reporting in, and therefore it is good to register with the Ministry with the number of athletes they have. I imagine the Minister is faced with the task of dividing funds, non-investment subsidies, into individual sports and clubs. How will it go without knowing how many athletes in a given club or sport? How will he do that if he doesn't know how many of the total are young and how many are adults? To date, the Minister must rely on information he receives from the Union. Nowadays, clubs register with specific associations through the registration of athletes. However, a number of associations admit that they show false data on the Ministry of Education. It gives information about athletes who register, who are no longer active, even some of them are no longer, unfortunately, among us. And they're still showing them in state. And that's the problem. This means that the information that comes to the Ministry of Education is distorted and inaccurate. We would need to, and I would advocate that the funds for sport be distributed fairly according to the real states, by the actual numbers. And that's why I can only recommend and support this register of sportsmen and clubs. [[15.00 hours]] On the contrary, I would intercede for another register. And another register - a register of sports sites, because money is not only divided by non-investment character, but also by investment character. And today, the Ministry of Education splits money almost blindly. That's why I'm saying he's at a dead end, among other things. In fact, funds are distributed into investment funds in a number of cases according to subjective feelings and this is not good. It would be good to create a map of sports sites, where it would be clear, for example, in the Moravian-Silesian region, how many football stadiums, hockey courts, the state of who they are, how many members there are, how strong the base of children and youth, how many adult athletes there are, where, for example, the community or the region contributed funds to such a club so that it does not repeat itself over and over again that it contributes to investment subsidies to the same entities. I noticed that that's what happened, at least in the past, that's what happened. And I would like financial investment subsidies to be given to those who have been asking for years and never have. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u14	Your way to the rapporteur. I didn't say anything like that. I was just saying that I think it's a better way to ask for the data from those who apply for the grant, and to have in the grant procedure that if there's no true data, they'll return the grant. I'm very skeptical of other and other registers. Because even the map of the sports grounds. That's very nice. And how long will that be? Let's take the football fields. There'll be thousands of them. So to have a so-called fair program, we should find out for everyone: When was the last time the lawn was changed? How much money? Who contributed to this? How many people will do this, Mr rapporteur, through Mr President? That's an incredible job. That sounds nice. If the D.O.D. keeps giving the same guys, they don't have to give the same guys all the time. I mean, it's the Ministry who distributes the subsidies, not the applicants. And if you have a problem with the fact that the Minister can't decide for himself, and I agree with that, he can't, so let's put the money in the tax budget, 4 billion for sport, and let's split it between cities and municipalities. And let's give it a bow, it's money that belongs to sports and the village. And the municipalities will already know which clubs are there, when they changed their lawn, when they bought their goals, whether they have jerseys ten years old, washed or new. But the effort of every village troop, every village playground, comes across practical problems from the central register. Full database. Loyalty to the database. And the current database. And I don't think there's anything about that in the explanatory memorandum. I'd like an estimate. How much does he estimate the sports grounds will be there? What information are the owners of the sports grounds supposed to enter? How many years back will there be, for example, operating subsidies? Or investment. Or non-investment, because sometimes it's the nature of the repair, sometimes it's the nature of the valuation, one accountant tells you that it's a cost correction, the other tells you that it's an investment in depreciation. What are you gonna do about it? So you get a list of 10,000 football fields. You say we have five million on the football field. And will you choose the worst, whether he asks or not? I don't understand. [[Attention on time.]] Sounds good, but it's practically impossible. That's my major reservation. And I agree with that, which is why I told them to give the data, and if they're lying, they'll return the money. It's very simple. I don't care if it's sanctions. Not even a grant applicant should lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u15	With another factual remark, Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would certainly stand up for that register, because it is a national secret that black souls in those sports grounds simply exist on the basis of different demands at different times. And to make things right, I think it's worth it. And especially considering that according to the real state of the athletes, money will be coming to the sports organizations. As far as the register of sports facilities and in custody for some drawing, I think it's even more complicated there, because sports organizations are mostly civic associations and mostly, or quite often, I don't say that mostly they play sports on playgrounds that belong to someone else, mostly municipalities or town halls. There's a lease, just a symbolic one. By this support the municipalities, those representatives also support sport in the given village, in the given city. So then it's like the grant applicant is going to be a community because she's the owner. It's probably a community because it's a playground owner. Or it'll be a civil association, but it's not the owner again, so it's hard to send a grant to someone who's not the owner, even today. So from this point of view, I'd like to think about it even more than putting it in the law now, as if somehow pushing too much into the playground records. Although, I'm sure there's a sense to it as a certain possible overview. But it seems to me to be pretty inaccurate to tie the funds to it so far. But if I go back to those sports registers, I might as well be in the second league of football somewhere today, even though Mr. Miroslav Kalousek calls me an old man, and I'd be included in the draw, because I just have a registration. [[Time warning]] And maybe he's right, 'cause then they said, "I can't hear right," so instead of "boy," they might have called "grandpa." But it's not that important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u17	I'm very sorry, colleague, but your two minutes have run out a long time ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u18	I'm sorry too. And I think this bill will be worth discussing in a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u19	I thank my colleague Urban. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Petr Fiala. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u20	On the contrary, from my experience with the Ministry of Education, I would have taken the liberty of declaring the register unnecessary for several reasons. First of all, yes, there is a bit of a problem that we may not know in detail how many active athletes there are and how many youngsters he sports. On the other hand, it must be said that the Ministry of Education must respect what we might call the autonomy of sports and sports associations, so the Ministry does not allocate funds directly to individual clubs except for certain investment events, but actually allocates them to sports organisations. And we have here the construction of a complex, expensive register, which one day some data will be inserted into and then how the register is filed, eventually the union will be responsible again. So it doesn't really matter if the individual sports unions tell us how many members they have, or if they're going to fill it back into an expensive register. As a result, it doesn't matter at all. But creating a complicated register that everyone is going to register in seems completely unnecessary to me. It won't be up to date, it won't work better. I don't see any big problem with the Ministry's allocation of subsidies. Let's work on it. Let's make it better. Let's work together. Let's have national sports councils. Not in the law, but in fact. And we will definitely achieve a good system. We're not gonna help each other by registering. And I would say to Mr Urban, through Mr President, that there is nothing wrong with you being registered as an athlete somewhere. In the end, this is okay, and the state must be interested in moving and sporting, for example, in people who are close to the elderly. That doesn't bother me. It's perfectly all right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u21	Thank you. Obviously, President Fiala has pleased Mr Urban. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Stanjura. Subsequently, Mr Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u22	First, a comment on what the honourable colleague Mr Urban said. We all know they have black souls there. I don't know. And if that's the case, let's be specific. It's just that somebody's a dirty suspect. Everyone's got black souls, so we're gonna put in a register. They'll send it to the same people who have black souls. The only thing there is, then the Home Office enters, looks into the population register and says, yes, this person is at this address, and he's still alive. Of course. The Home Office probably doesn't know if Milan Urban is getting on his left wing or hitchhiker, or he's not getting on his football team anymore, and he can't even have it. So nothing's gonna change. And speaking of youth support, I'm all for it, but the rapporteur was just talking about organized sport. When I said experience from my town, when I was still a mayor, we supported open sports grounds for the unorganized, which I think is just as valuable as those who are in those sections. [[15.10 hours]] But, of course, they won't be on any register, unorganized. An open playground that a child walks by, or a teenager, can play sports there, play basketball or play football. So we're not gonna support this? Because even if the register was, they wouldn't be registered there anyway. Unorganized activity is just as valuable as organized activity! And I don't think the law thinks about that. I agree with Mr Urban on the sports grounds that the situation... It's a little different. The majority of the civil society had that property in the '90s, and then logically, it was beyond their powers, very often corrupt or incorruptible. But watch out for the rents! Look out! Watch out for the police and the prosecutor! It's not economical to rent a gym to someone for a crown a year. And there are cases where colleagues from the council or from the council ended up being uneconomic and were being investigated by the police. This is a clear political decision, and it is the clear support. Because there are really symbolic rents. But seriously, consider it. [[Time!]] Just right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u23	Thank you. Mr Urban is erasing his factual point. With a factual remark, Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u24	I do not want to prolong the debate too much, therefore a factual point. In my opinion, the law is too mushy. It may be well-meaning. The title would be signed by each of us, but once we look inside, we find that the whole support will take place primarily in the area of bureaucracy and not in fact money that should come somewhere. I think the easier the law will be, the better for everyone. Let the state organize its own, leave the regions and municipalities to its own organization. By this law, we also interfere with the separate competence of municipalities, where we tell them that they are obliged to have a sport development plan. So we'll probably be in the village, there's a hundred permanent residents, so we'll be writing plans for the development of our sport about every year. I guarantee, Madam Secretary, the main issue with us is that we need two toilets in the sports centre. That is our main objective, and we hope to achieve it. I'm a little worried that we won't have to change the light bulb and that won't be in the sport development plan anymore, so we'll need to update the updated sport plan we've had there before. And so on and so forth. As a result, they're all gonna fuck it up, and they're not gonna do anything like that. I would very much like this bill to go to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Perhaps there will be a number of municipal politicians from practice and try to leave what is important in that law and take out the nonsense that we want from municipalities at the moment and call it the development of sport instead of saying that we want more and more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u25	I thank Mr Bendl. Two more factual points, then with priority rights, the rapporteur. Sorry, three factual points. So, with the first point of fact, Mr Martin Novotný, Mr Ivan Adamec, followed by Mrs Anna Putnová. All factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u26	I just wanted a few sentences, a nice afternoon, to the idea that the rapporteur said that we should make those registers a little higher and start building a register of sports sites. At the level of a relatively large city, we tried to pass through our sports sites, provide this information to the public over the Internet, map these matters. And I guarantee you that, at the level of a hundred thousand city, it's impossible to fit into a table and in any way objectify this area and be able to read out the real needs of what kind of sport is, what kind of investment it needs, essentially without having any invaders at your disposal, people directly from that location who know how a sports club works, what's going on around it, where the investment makes sense, where the investment doesn't make sense. And the idea that, apart from some strategic investment in major sports sites of republic or regional importance, everything can be mapped in this way, and from any detailed table, something objective can be read and, on the basis of that, making decisions on a national scale is completely wrong. Because you just can't do it without the local knowledge, without the insiders, and there's no way you're gonna be able to include them in that process. Such an idea that the world can be objectiveized and created some perfect mechanical system, how to control it, is in no way possible. And without people who have local knowledge, and without the ability to respond to their recommendations, which is no lobbying in that negative sense, no good decision can be made in the field of sport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u27	I thank Mr Novotný. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Anna Putnová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u28	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I don't want to delay either, which is why it's just a point of fact. You know, the funding of sport in municipalities is a topic today, and I think in a number of cases it is a subject that ends with criminal announcements and a great suspicion that the money is not treated directly from the point of view of sport, I would say, honestly and legally. But I don't really want to talk about it. I was going to say that my colleague Petr Bendl is wrong when he says that a village like Brotronice does not have a sport plan, that sport in the village will not work. It's just that he can't reach any state money. And he implied it here, of course. And I think it really is, if you read Section 6, I read it, and I'm not wise of it at all. I will read it: "The municipality, in its own capacity, creates conditions for sport, in particular ensuring the development of sport for all, especially for young people. " So I don't know what we've done so far, that it has to be in this law. I don't know what we did! "They ensure the preparation of sports talents, including disabled citizens." Well, that's what we do! There's just a question of how much it should be done. And I think that's a crucial question. Because there's a difference in promoting talent, which of course someone else will find, not that an official in the village or mayor or councilman. But how much will it cost, and what is the aid intensity? That's what I miss very much here in this bill. "They provide construction, reconstruction, maintenance, operation of sports facilities and provide them for the activities of citizens." So please, again, what have we been doing for years? That's all we do! But if we are asking for subsidies for the construction of any sports facility, we are doing this to provide them for this activity! For other reasons, we don't do that. "They control the effective use of their sports facilities." From Sumava to Tatras. I don't know what to imagine under this as mayor of the village. Really, it's impeccable, it's de facto unspeakable. "They provide financial support for sport from their budget." Well, if we didn't, there's no sport in this republic anymore. Because as far as I know, there is no other support than from municipal budgets today. Well, I already talked about the plan. [[Attention on time.]] I think that the whole of Section 6 would be worth excluding from this bill, and I believe that this will happen after the expert discussion in the school committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u29	I thank Mr Adamc. With a point of fact, Mrs Anna Putnová, followed by a point of fact by President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u30	Thank you. Good afternoon again. I think we're dealing with an area that technically runs into the formulation of the principles of the organisation of the register, but the fundamental question is whether we want to divide performance and inefficient sport. Because if we don't split these things up, we're still gonna support performance athletes who are professionals in a number of cases! This is a matter that we should emphasise. We may not be able to do this by amending this law. That's why I said it's just the first step to have a discussion about what this sport should look like. And when we talk about what is and is not transparent. I have a table in front of me that analyses the subsidies for 2015 for representation. And when I look at how the individual unions have succeeded, I have to say, more than anything else, the person in charge of the head of the union. So there are some sports that are long-term supported no matter how many members they have and how successful they are in international comparison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u31	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. With another factual remark, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, after him with priority rights, Mr... Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u32	I'm not sure we have to define in the law what is a top sport, what is a performance, what is mass, if we even agree on the definition. It is precisely because each of us likes a different sport, so in my opinion there is no objective criterion, no table to objectively assess it. But I want to talk about nothing else. I want to talk about money because sports need money. And it's been a few days, maybe weeks, when we voted on a gambling novelty. And I, because almost all the members present in the Chamber of Deputies, whether Members or Members, voted in favour of the proposal that the government has brought in two billion extra, but the government coalition has decided not to divide the increase as it has been, and de facto, by its decision to change from 80 to 63 percent, the municipalities and cities have prepared at least 350 million, and that is the bottom estimate. And most of this money ends up in sports and in support of small sections. So the same people who are gonna call the mic here today, how they want to promote sport, took at least 350 million crowns from them two weeks ago. And if we want to support the youth, I say we put the money into the budgetary determination of taxes. That's fair! Or according to the number of children who live permanently in the village. This is also a fair criterion when we want to do it on our head regardless of whether the child is or is not organized in a section. And there are no black souls. Either the kids live there or they don't live there. You've got it all figured out. This data is available to the Czech Statistical Office and you do not need to invent any register. Let's make the sum, let's split it up with simple measures and cities, and the municipalities will deal with the money because they know which section to support and which is not, which is virtual and which is real.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u33	Thank you to President Stanjur. With a point of fact, Mr Volný, after which Mr Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, as I would like to assure my colleague Stanjura through you and to reassure him that it is enshrined in the existing law that the Olympic Committee, sport, money and not little, receives from gambling taxes. Now he's normally getting $450 million, and by raising the percentage and picking up, he gets even more sport. That means the sport with this increase got even more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u35	Thank you, Mr Volný. With another factual remark by Mr Novotný, Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u36	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be brief. I would like to support this amendment of the law and I think that sport deserves a real amendment of the law, I would even say that sport deserves its own ministry. Just like the Ministry of Culture, I think that sport should have its own ministry, so that, let's say, in quotation marks, it doesn't glean at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. This idea is not new, it has already been promoted, but I think it is growing on need, because you know well that our children are not moving much and that really the need at all, when I watch this broad discussion, is very necessary. So think about this thought, too. Maybe someday we'll come to a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u37	I thank Mr Novotný. I ask Mr Stanjura to make his point of order. After that, Mr. Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u38	Mr Volný's performance - he didn't say the whole thing. First of all, he didn't say that we made it through the last parliamentary term, and it looks like a great success that he and his movement have shown here. Secondly, and that is much more important, look at the budget committee's record of negotiations. The Minister of Finance Babiš repeatedly criticized it and said, if I had my way, the Olympic Committee wouldn't get any money. He said it publicly repeatedly. So don't tell me with a tear in my eye how you think about the Olympic Committee and how you raise their money. Your chairman on the Committee on Budgets has repeatedly said that it is wrong that he will unfortunately not be able to cancel it, and if it were his way, the Olympic Committee will not receive any money. Whoever doesn't believe me, find a record on the House of Deputies' website of the budget committee when we were discussing a gambling tax amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u39	Thank you to President Stanjur. With another factual remark, Mr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u40	I want to express a certain skepticism about the idea that if we want to improve something, we have to start another ministry. We've been thinking about the Ministry of Research. I guarantee you that the Ministry of Research, as proposed in this form, will certainly not improve anything in research, and that we will not divide it from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, we will call it the Ministry of Sport and we will manage it separately, there will be no shift. We'll just have more officials and another office on our hands. But what needs to be done in sport for a long time and it hasn't happened for a long time is to stabilise the funds that go into sport, and so I, for example, at a time when I was acting as Minister of Education, considered a variant of two chapters so that the money that goes for sport wouldn't be in common with the money that goes on the education system. But I don't think that's the right solution either. The solutions are much simpler. And if we want her to be a youth sport, then we don't have to come up with some complicated registers and complicated things, but let's start with the simple ones. For example, when an excellent sports centre, the only one in the village, stands up for expensive money, it has no logic to shut it down after school and no one gets there. Let us create, for example, conditions for children to be able to play sports there, for young people to be able to play sports in order to benefit from sports clubs. And here I mean the state, the village, the county have a way to intervene. But let's not do this through the office, other and other legislation, registers and things that will ultimately not bring about the better movement of people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u41	Thank you to Chairman Fial. With another factual remark, Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u42	I don't want to delay it. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, but here is one big problem, and perhaps that is also why there is a new law on sport. You'll remember with me. There were hundreds of millions of crowns in sports from Sazka. Sazka is privatized and the money is missing. So sport rightly asks for money to work, so with all possible channels it asks for it to go out of public funds, and therefore there is some kind of effort to straighten out the rules for distributing public funds among athletes. And if there wasn't a big blackout from Sazka, which I don't feel responsible for, then maybe we wouldn't have to deal with the situation today, even though it's always worth the order. So where's the money that went to sports from Sazka? Who's got them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u43	Thank you. Mr Štětina, Mr Kalousek, followed by Mr Kalousek, made a point of fact. Mr. Mr. Štětina prefers his honored colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, do you have... [[Messenger. Kalousek prefers to return.]] So it's really Mr. Mr. Slutty. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u44	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here with great interest to see how we are all interested in making a lot of money for sport. But, as we recall, about six months ago, we were discussing an increase in funding for sport, so there was no one billion bianca. I'll tell you why. Because money for sports is still out of control and not transparent. I believe that the draft of this law, which is currently being prepared by the Minister, is the basis for what should be here. You need to know and it's not some thing that talks about re-registration etc., but it's about putting order into how and to whom we're supposed to give the money. I was here with great interest to watch Mr Urban's speech, through the Vice-President, where he mentioned Sazka. And maybe you all know that many people who worked in Sazka and were in high positions are now presidents of the unions or even of the whole movement. I'm asking how that's possible. [[15.30 hours]] I just think that what this law is going to do is perfectly fine, and let us not blame it for not being possible, because we would prevent the definition of sport, what is mass, what is basic sport, top, and I don't know what else. But the money really needs to be given very well, honestly. And as long as it doesn't steal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u45	Thank you, Mr Štětin. With another factual remark, the President. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr Urban, to whom I do not call an old man, made that up, said here that sazka has been privatized, which, with all due respect to him, I would like to call a false statement. Sazka couldn't have been privatized because she was never state. Sazka was always a private subject, she was in the possession of body unions, and these are private subjects. It was a private company that went bankrupt for its mismanagement. It is amazing that those who brought her to the crash, which was a historical performance, were in Guinessův's record book, bringing to ruin such a monopoly that to this day some of them are fat recipients of state subsidies and are warmed up in the favor of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. It's warm. For example, the Autoclub - I've been looking at how much funding it has compared to the IAMK, and I think it's heating up. And what's going on with the money from sazka that went into sports? Well, they're receiving the state budget. Sazka did not pay taxes and the mandatory contribution for the charitable purposes paid by the lottery organization was the contribution of Sazka to the Czech Republic and to the body associations. After I was the first Minister of Gambling in 2011, perhaps the current Minister says that I am his king, so when I passed gambling tax, this levy became 20% of the tax and this tax is the income of the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u47	Thank you. Hello. Before I give the floor to Mr Horáček, I will read the apology received. Mrs Semelová apologizes for Thursday from 9 pm for work reasons. Mr Holík apologizes until 14.15 for professional reasons. Mr Procházka on Wednesday, from 18:00 to the end of the day for working reasons. Minister Jurečka from 15 a.m. today for ministerial reasons, Mr Klaška today 15.45 to 18.00. So many apologies. Mr Horáček's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to make a brief statement, too. First of all, in order for this not to go away, I would like to draw attention again to the section 6, which my colleague, Mr Adamec, said here. It's just absolutely misguided. The tasks of the municipalities - the municipalities do the same, and they will always have to do it, because they would not last in the village. As far as the new Ministry is concerned - while I respect my colleague Novotný, I do not think that by introducing a new Ministry, our youth will start to sport. Let's see what it looks like in gym class right now, recruiting at the Home Office or the soldiers. As for the others, such as the sports register, I think it's just a matter of the Ministry telling each other. I don't know about your place, but if I remember, when I wanted something in the village, I asked for a multipurpose playground, a football field. I've always gotten a grant, I've had a share in it. Of course, all this information is somewhere. Why are we putting in a new register? Let the D.O.D. work it out between themselves. As far as the task of the municipalities is concerned, it has been said here, I believe from the rapporteur that it will now come to pass, that money should not be lost and that it should also come to some sections that have not been received before. Maybe that's the way it is in big towns. I'm from 6,000 city, and I can't imagine forgetting about anyone for a few years. I think it works, too, and there's no need to think of anything new. So, to sum up, I don't think a record is a good thing. I would definitely have Section 6 crossed out because it doesn't solve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u49	Thank you. Mr Novotný, also a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u50	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to perform anymore, but because I was practically invited. I train kids for my whole life three times a week for two hours, Saturday Sundays for tournaments. Practically all these people do it for free. So, first of all, I would like to respond to that remark by means of the President to Mr Fiala, saying that he is really right, that the playgrounds will be locked or disabled and so on. But the biggest problem here is really getting coaches. Get coaches, get people willing to do this for little money, and sometimes they do it for free. So here I would really appeal to the money going to the coaches who take care of the youth. Next thing you know, it's the Ministry. Please be clear - I'm listening here that sport has a lot of problems. Of course, I did not call for the Ministry of Sport to be set up just to create another apparatus here. But on the other hand, I have to say that when the Ministry of Culture was set up, people didn't start singing more or playing theater anymore. So the argument that if we set up the Department of Sport is that the kids are going to be more sporty, of course, that's probably a little out of order here. Personally, I think that sport has so many problems and that it is so important that it is at least worth considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u51	That was the last point of fact. The rapporteur will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u52	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the proposed Ministry of Sport. Look, compare it to science or the origin of the Ministry of Science - at least science has its agencies today. He's got Grant's agency, he's got a Technological Agency with his own separate budget chapter. Sports don't have anything like that. Sport is organized simply under the Ministry of Education. I feel the atmosphere in this room that everyone just wants to help sports in some way. So let's agree that we're gonna do this, that we're gonna help sports kids and young people, amateur and public sports, that we're gonna try to separate a completely professional sport in the near future that has to make a living without the support of the state, that's very important, and let's help those kids out of socially weaker families so that they can even play sports in those clubs. We know that physical education today does not attract elementary school pupils, often not entertained, apologized. And it would be good if they could just sport a sport that they enjoy in clubs, but that's where it costs money. This is taken care of by the municipalities, thanks to them, and above all, the funding is taken care of by their parents. According to the SANEP survey, up to 20 percent of families have no money to sport their children. That is why there is the goodwill of the new Minister of Education to get money to support sports children and youth directly into the club. And in order to see what clubs to send it to, the Ministry needs to know how many children and what classes there are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u53	Now there is one factual remark from President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u54	Thank you. I would like to ask you, colleagues, if we have the will, and I think we have it in common, to bring the law to a successful end so that there is more systemic support for sport, let us forget the establishment of the Ministry for Sport. I think that many of us have been active or performance athletes, I really don't want to come to my motherhood and say, "Dear children, we've arranged for you to do better sports, so we've set up a ministry for you." I'm willing to be a clown sometimes, but only when I have to. In this case, no way. I beg you - starting with the promotion of sport by setting up a ministry for this is the most absurd and insidious step. And let's talk about system financing and system support for sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u55	Thank you. Mr Svoboda also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u56	Good afternoon, very briefly indeed, also as a former athlete. I'd just like to remind Werich and his forbie, as he says when the ministry is set up, that there's definitely someone looking for the building where the ministry is going to be. I'm afraid, Madam Secretary, if we're not looking for a building for some new ministry. Werich made that very clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u57	Yes. If there are no further factual remarks, we will return to proper applications. Mr Pojezný shall have the floor and Mr Benda shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to begin by responding to some of my previous speakers' remarks. Someone said, "Where's the money that used to flow into sports?" And he was talking about Sazka. But if we look, who mainly financed the sport? It was a state budget. If 0.7 percent of the state budget went into sports 26 years ago, and today it's less than 0.3 percent, that's the 80 billion that are missing in 26 years. That's the biggest item. We got to such a time when 25 percent of children can't play sports because parents can't do it, which is about a quarter of a million children today. 80 per cent of the cost of sport is borne by families. Normally in Europe, it's about 50 percent. We have come to the conclusion that at present 60 percent of the population is overweight, of which 30% are obese. In the last 15 years alone, obesity has increased four times in children. That is why I completely disagree with the views I have heard from my colleagues from the right, and I personally welcome the Government's bill amending Law 115 of 2001 on promoting sport, as it contains a number of new, specifying paragraphs that will enable the position of sport to be strengthened, as well as specifying its funding for the ultimate objective, i.e. to the various sports clubs, to the teams. I believe that even though the proposal for a new law on promoting sport has not been initially considered, this is a step in the absolutely right direction, but I consider it a step first. The second step in the future should be to prepare and approve a new amendment, which, as I have been informed by the Minister, should be prepared in 2017, i.e. He'll be ready for approval a little later. It is absolutely essential that there be a gradual step forward at the same time, but I say, to a rapid increase in the volume of state budget funds with effective, well-set and mainly controllable funding, which was not in the past. He confirmed it, for example. at various cases Supreme Audit Office. Unlike my colleagues from the right, I consider it to be a fundamental new condition for the drawing of state subsidies by introducing a register under Section 3a, which will be an information system for public administration to maintain data on sports organisations and active athletes. Its administrator is to be MŠMT, and this register will therefore be non-public. Its introduction should set the scope of financial support from the State budget up to the final beneficiary. The register thus appears as currently the most objective standard of the real state of active athletes, as there should be quite a very precise acquisition of data, which will be relatively difficult to question. And I agree that another register should also be created in the future, e.g. registering sports sites or property, because according to those programmes announced by the Ministry of Sports, it would be appropriate for a certain percentage of the state budget to be prepared to restore these sports areas. It is also worth attention to the establishment of the National Sports Council as an advisory body on conceptual matters in the field of sport. Details of the organisation and activities are laid down in the statute approved by the Ministry of Education. The President and members shall be appointed by the Minister. Personally, I think it will be necessary to appoint members, and I think someone has already mentioned this, to rule out an uneven representation of the sports environment. At the last meeting, I pointed out that an association of sports associations, which currently has more than 10,000 clubs and more than 600,000 members, should not be left out. There are other new and beneficial standards in the proposal, such as: the obligation of the Ministry of Education to draw up a draft State policy plan for sport, which it submits to the Government for approval. The Ministry then coordinates the implementation of the government-approved plan and provides financial support from the state budget. I am very positive about the so-called. I also have a positive assessment of the responsibilities of the regions and municipalities in the field of sport. If this amendment is approved, it will be possible, in time, to determine to what extent its main objective has been met, more addressable funding, in particular the basic articles of sports associations, and should also contribute to better conditions for the adoption of a new law on promoting sport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u59	Thank you. With another factual remark, President Kalousek will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u60	Just very briefly, forgive me, I won't hold up any longer. But I found it a little incorrect to compare my previous speaker with what share of the state's sports budget expenditure was spent 27 years ago and what today. Please note that those anabolic steroids that were then used for the greater glory of socialist bodies were extremely expensive and swallowed a substantial part of this amount. They're not allowed to be used today, so they're logically spared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u61	Mr Benda and Mr Andrle will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as 50 factual points are made, the debate is usually almost exhausted. So I'm in a little bit of a difficult situation where my colleagues outrank me in a lot of ways. However, I would like to make a few comments. No wonder Officer Pojezný welcomes the records. I'm a little surprised the Madam Secretary is presenting them. Not by chance Bucharin, and only after he was executed, they attributed that sentence to Lenin, he said that socialism is mainly evidence. I'm a little worried that we're falling in love, virtually. that this government has fallen in love with it and feels that if it has a record for everything, it will be better and better in the world. I'm afraid it won't be. On the contrary, I'm afraid we'll be less and less free. This does not call into question the efforts of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports to direct more money and more precisely to sport. To try to find out where someone's deceiving her and giving her some false information. But I don't know if the path they've chosen is really the right one. Let's see what we have to do. The register is an information system of public administration. Who knows the 365 Act on Information Systems in Public Administration? Who knows him at the Ministry of Education, I wonder. And I would very much like this committee to be directed not only to the Education Committee but also to the Public Administration Committee, which has always been the guarantor of public administration information systems. [[Law]] One of the jokes that are, the information system, and the senses that are the information system in public administration, is that their correctness is guaranteed by the state. That their correctness is guaranteed by the state. What is inserted there is verified as correct by the state authority, and whoever looks there can believe that what is inserted there is correct. [[15.50 hours]] What kind of system are we creating here? While we say that this is an information system of public administration - not public, I can get to that - but at the same time we say that sports organisations are inserting, they are putting their data under some rather drastic sanctions - which I would also like to know how the sanctions will be applied. I think Mr Stanjura has already stumbled upon this to some extent. And in paragraph four, the registry user is the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Apparently no one else, just the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, is doing it for themselves. And paragraph 5 is that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports confirms the truthfulness, completeness and accuracy of the data in the register. So I'm assuming that this register is to be verified by the Ministry. It's probably just for itself, because no one else has access to it, but that this registry is supposed to be verified by the Ministry. If you really mean it, then you can't think of a sentence from a explanatory note saying that the establishment of such a register will cost several million. There will have to be such a hundred people at least who will verify the data of individual associations, compare them with the population registers regularly, find out who is reported, see if the data that are transmitted there were correct, if they agree to the permanent residence address with the current permanent residence address and a lot of other things. It's not just that we're going to say that we're going to plant them by sanctioning who gives us the wrong ones, he's going to be punished for it. That's not verification. You should have made this, if necessary, as a comment, as a condition of subsidy. And whoever gives you a false statement doesn't grant him next year. But once I say that the Ministry is responsible for what's in the register, the verification has to take place and it can't just lie on those unions. That's the first point on the register. Second point. In order to make sense, other authorities who can decide on subsidies should also have access to it. Otherwise, you're just doing it for yourself. This is how it looks like you're doing it for yourself, maybe you'll still be working with some other ministries. However, in order to make any sense at all, the regions that provide the funds, the municipalities that provide the funds, and even the diction that is chosen to register in paragraph 3 in paragraph 2 of the second sports organisation requesting support under this law. It's not just about a sports organization applying for state budget support under this law. It's every sports organization that asks for support in the last village. Well, then, Madam Secretary, please read it properly. A sports organisation that applies for aid may grant aid from the state budget, regional budgets, municipal budgets. That's exactly how it's written. You don't have a spec here. We may be able to adjust it, but we need to adjust it. If I ask my municipal office to give me $2,000 of money from the gambling collected for 50 schoolchildren, I really have to register at the Ministry of Education with all the personal data of all my schoolchildren, with the fact that when I registered badly and I misjudged someone's date of birth or place of permanent residence, I'm facing up to two million sanctions. I don't think that's what we wanted, but it's written like this. So just please don't make it sound like it's like a technical standard, that we thought about it the way we did, and it's gonna work out. Once I write these things down in the law, if the D.O.D. says they're a subsidy condition, they can change it every year. Once I write in the law, it's a legal obligation and everyone who has a request for support tells it, they have to register, then it has to be everyone. Even the one who asks, not the one who gets the support. This is the most important reservation against the register against which I would have doubts whether, to this extent, it is really to be kept whole. But now that he's being led, it has to be clear who he's being led for, who has access to him, and under what circumstances I'm registering, and I can't mix these three things up. I can't say at the same time that they're all signing up, and no one else but MŠMT has access to it. That makes no sense at all. And the last thing I wanted to ask, and that's probably my ignorance, but I'd like to ask the secretary about her after all. Section 6d coordination of the provision of support. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports coordinates the provision of support under this Act with the Office for the Protection of Competition. I am afraid that the competition authority is an independent body that examines whether there is a distortion of competition, or where appropriate it examines or gives the documents to the European Commission, whether there is illegal public support. I'm not sure it's even possible for you to coordinate with him, because at a time like this, we would get into the fact that the office is a priori in conflict of interest. If he gives you an opinion in advance that he agrees, and then it is he who is to judge it, or it is he who gives the documents to the European Commission, whether there has been illegal public support. I'd like the committee to take another look at it, but I think... I know what this is meant, maybe it's meant well, but I'm afraid it's being violated here as a division of power between individual authorities of state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mr Andrle, with priority rights, the President of the KDU-ČSL Club. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u64	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said here. I would also like to add a few words here to this amendment to the Sports Support Act. Most of the time, I do so at the end of the discussion because I like to listen to my colleagues' opinions both coalition and opposition. Sometimes it is stimulating or it is possible to respond better to it. It can also be seen that sport was not only a phenomenon of the 20th century, but also remained a phenomenon of the 21st century on the basis of this rather detailed and long debate, and that is good. I say that as a person who once wanted to become a gym teacher. I would like to say that, from our point of view, this is not a purely new law on promoting sport in this text, as one might suspect from the coalition agreement, but rather not a very fundamental and not very extensive amendment, which has resigned from the area of sport financing, and therefore, from this point of view, the financing of sport will probably be much more important than this law then the sport plan. But yet here the speech of my previous speakers to finance sport has been very often turned on, and I'm also doing part of my exposé. I am in favour of the sport being financed by the state, not by gambling. Then it happens that the greatest supporters of gambling are paradoxically sporting and beneficial organizations to have money for their activities. Sport is in any case in the interests of this state, and it is to be financed by the state and not by the gambling lobby. We, as KDU-ČSL, actively reminded this law during preparation, and from our point of view the most problematic passages are no longer in this amendment. The sport plan will no longer be mentioned by just two organisations, and there is also greater emphasis, and that is what we very much wanted, the emphasis on sport for everyone, and not only on performance sport, to which originally this amendment by exministra Chládek basically, could be said, headed. In this sense, I would like to pick up a constructive and helpful approach both to the Minister and to fellow Members of Holeček, representing the ANO movement. [[16.00 hours]] We've already talked about the register. I don't want to comment on that. As well as the National Council for Sport has already been said a lot. It is actually the only body with which the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has to discuss the conceptual materials in the field of sport before submitting to the government, and therefore it will be very important in what composition this board will be. We believe that it would be ideal for organisations to be represented in particular by those representatives who provide sport for everyone. It is also important to note in the amendment that the regions and municipalities are to redefine the plan for the development of sport and the regions and municipalities and ensure its implementation. However, there is basically no word in the proposal on the means for this activity, and therefore we are a little concerned that this will not just remain on paper. I would point out that in the comment procedure, there was agreement that this sport development plan will only concern municipalities with extended scope, which we recommend, but this may not have happened because this material was first withdrawn from the government and then it was no longer mentioned. In conclusion, I would like to reassure the Minister in any case, KDU-ČSL will support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u65	Yes. And now Mr Andrle has the floor, who is the last to be entered into the debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u66	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As the last two previous speakers have said, a lot has been exhausted, but there is still one point that I have not made. I am therefore glad that the Minister of Health is present. I wanted to say before I go into this, that Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic have a very important position in the world in sport. If you know such a control question, as Lieutenant Troník said, which sport in the Olympics from Czechoslovakia was the most successful? So it's gymnastics. She won 87 medals at the Olympics. And we're usually 15th to 17th in state ratings, so we're very successful. This success, of course, shows a great deal of work especially for voluntary workers in the body, cantors and parents. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I speak to you not only as an MP but also as a coach, as an educator, because for about 33 years I have been a swimming coach and a representative team, and I have also been a club president for about 30 years, so I know what I'm saying. I would like to stress that sports activities should, in principle, affect young people in particular. Youth sports have an extraordinary educational, educational and, above all, preventive health effect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u67	Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you to remain calm!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u68	You may know that in the Czech Republic today we have one of the largest percentage of obese children in the European Union, and according to recent statistics, each third child is overweight. We've heard that before. The solution to this unfortunate condition could also be the introduction of compulsory swimming lessons at primary schools, which are being prepared at that time at the Ministry of Education, taking into account that swimming is perhaps the healthiest -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u69	Colleagues, colleagues, one more time. I'm begging for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u70	- considering that swimming is perhaps the healthiest sporting activity with the effects of educational, rehabilitation, recreational, hygienic, performance and educational activities. The Ministry of Health must also take into account the health benefits of sport and contribute to its financing in the framework of disease prevention and injury. In this bill, however, I lack the involvement of all insurance companies, not only those health insurance companies that should contribute to the financing of sport from the chapters of the damage barrier, in order to prevent any disability, drowning, etc. In the past, this was the case that the insurance companies were very much involved in the financing of sport from those chapters of the damage barriers. It's completely gone. I believe that this issue could also be addressed by an amendment to this law. The design of a plan for the development of municipalities, sport of municipalities and cities should include the cost of compulsory swimming lessons, namely technical operation, meaning the rent of the pool and, above all, the transport of pupils to and from the pool. By doing so, municipalities and cities will fulfil the obligation to provide sports facilities to citizens, especially young people. The municipalities and regions will be obliged to draw up a plan for the development of sport in their territory, where swimming lessons should not be lacking. I'm not gonna mention a register or anything like that. I would just like to say that the criterion of the number of registered athletes or referees, coaches and parents is carried out using the register of each association and funding could be taken into account so that the number of athletes would be only a certain percentage, let's say 20 percent will be taken into account for the number of athletes, 40 percent will be taken into account for the energy intensity of the sport, I mean the rent of gyms, swimming pools, profits etc. So the number of athletes shouldn't be the only criterion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u71	That was Mr. Andrle. I will ask if anyone else is joining the debate. If not, I am ending the general debate. Let me ask you about the final words. Madam Secretary is interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u72	Mr President, honourable Members, I will take advantage of the possibility of a final word because there have been a number of questions raised towards the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. First of all, I would like to say that the amendment to the Sport Support Act is the first legislative step in this area after long years. We have not resigned to the Sports Act and we would like to find a consensus on its substantive assignment until the end of the term of office. As far as the criticism of the language of the law is concerned, I would just like to say that, of course, the language of the law is very often due to how the law was written as such, and then, of course, you will not achieve a partial amendment to fundamental progress. I believe that the law on sport, when it is discussed, will have the most favourable language for its addressees. Of course, I reject the fact that the bill contains legislative errors. I will therefore comment on the questions raised by the President of ODS Stanjura from the point of view of suspected legislative errors. As regards the definition of sports organisations in § 2 para. 2, that is, which is the subject, let it be precisely defined, so it will mostly be the association, but it can also be a commercial company if a non-profit basis is defined in its founding documents. Here I would just like to say from the point of view of the discussion that the Government Legislative Council has dealt with this issue and we have a problem which is repeated to us in a number of similar laws, where we want to support some publicly beneficial activity, because we still lack the law on public utility. As far as further comments are concerned, in the case of the register, I would simply say that the register is an information system, but it is not a public register. Here I am answering a little bit of the questions raised by Mrs Putnová and then by other Members. [[16.10 hours]] As far as the register is concerned, why it is formulated, as it is formulated, I would just like to say that, of course, the wording was based on consultation with the sports environment and sports organisations and what seems strange, i.e. that sports organisations have entered their registered data, so, on the contrary, sports organisations have demanded this precisely from the point of view of reducing the administrative burden with the fact that we have discussed that the convergence of those data from the point of view of being transferred to the register is not technically impossible, and vice versa, the register should help them from the point of view of registering and reducing the administrative burden. The register is not supposed to be some kind of wanking stick for those who may be suspected ahead of time that they are not handling funds properly in connection with e.g. with the subsidy programme or conditions of the subsidy, but it is intended to enable the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, but also, of course, to better monitor strategic data in the field of sport. Here I would like to compare it from the point of view of the general data we have, in terms of development, e.g. school records and how many, for example, to predict. children and youth in individual sports organisations are engaged in the sector, i.e. anonymously, and progression, i.e. i.e. in the future from a point of view, e.g. the correct targeting of grant schemes so that we can help them with the particular sport sector that is struggling with the lack of support for children and youth, or, on the contrary, to find out in this way the lack of sports trainers of a particular class and, on the other hand, the system support to ensure their education or financial support for sports organisations. As regards the specific question of how the registration will take place, this has also fallen, it should adapt the implementing decree, which, in terms of simple administrative complexity, should work with the format of the data message, with the organisation registering. Here I point out that this is the organization that, of course, wants to do so voluntarily if it wants to achieve support under this law, and that means supporting the subsidy from the point of view of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Therefore, not the question of financing by municipalities and regions, because there is no link with the financial support of municipalities and regions in terms of the amendment of the law. At the moment, as the amendment is presented. After registration, the registration data shall be provided by the Ministry in the form of a digital signature data message, the organisation shall be registered and shall fill in the register with its data. The Ministry processes this data, uses it for purposes in accordance with the law. And if Mr Benda asked how he intends to verify the data, i.e. the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. from the point of view of the guarantee of correctness, so in this case we expect the use of public administrative control precisely in terms of the provision of funds, but of course the control is systematic, but not that we would verify each individual figure. With regard to the start-up of the system from the point of view of the burden, I just want to recall the transitional provisions which give six months to sports organisations for registration and, in some cases, even one year. Furthermore, from the point of view of the tasks of the municipalities, here I would like to politely turn against the comments concerning the tasks of the municipalities that have been made, because colleagues who have criticised the text and wondered at these tasks, so I would just like to point out that they have criticised the current state of the law, i.e. not a novel, i.e. tasks that municipalities already have. I will also ask colleagues to learn more about the question of sanctions that have been repeatedly defined here as draconian, because it is again a valid state of law. As far as the link with registration is concerned, I just point out that the current state of law provides for the same possible draconian sanctions, e.g. in the case of not putting the visitor's order on the sports grounds. So it's also not something that we would put forward for this novel. With regard to the plans, why we formulate plans, why not concepts and what we are pursuing, the point is that there was a government policy plan, regional and municipal, and the plan was chosen with regard to other similar plans in similar areas. For example, you know that the issue of social services or other services is being addressed through a plan. The plan is indeed carried out in a separate context, but as I have already mentioned other areas of regulation, this is not unusual. However, we do not refer to the planning of toilets, as Mr Benda mentioned here, but, of course, we mean that the municipality should set its objectives, according to its local conditions, e.g. that it will support a certain sport sector, it wants to focus on the sport of children and young people, and in this perspective it has worked in terms of its actions, but of course, so that this can also be taken into account in the financial support of municipalities and could, for example, be taken into account. from the point of view of the subsidy programmes for this plan and the fact that they strategically plan and use funds have benefited. Here I would like to say that the investment programme that we have announced in recent days contains just a new series of specific links and criteria that take into account municipal and regional policy. And if we are talking about the merger of funds from the state, municipalities and regions, this is what we consider legitimate, we do not find it bothering. And I would just like to point out that, of course, the amendment has been positively discussed with the respective representatives of the authorities, i.e. with the Association of Regions, with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and with the Association of Local Authorities, and vice versa these institutions, which represent the municipalities, are interested in this kind of cooperation. As regards the concern that the law, Mr Bendl, is being violated, or could be violated, with regard to the Office for the Protection of Competition, here I just want to add that this is, of course, the competition authority's competition agenda, which concerns public support and the negotiation of notifications with the European Commission, when the competition authority itself calls on other actors who are announcing public support to the European Commission to cooperate, so I believe that this text is in accordance with the law. As regards the objections to the issue of administrative complexity, as President Stanjuru has put it, § 3a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c), the information on the sport organisation that is grouped in it, in the scope of points (a) and (b), in turn, is based on consultations with sports organisations, where it is primarily with regard to the registration of different data that the association or the sport organisation of this kind should register, but that does not mean that if it does not register that the sports club would not be able to register. So there's an explanation. I just want to say that the data and their collection are not really motivated by my side or by the Ministry of Education by some greedy regulatory function of the state, but very often you refer to the fact that we already have the data. But I therefore ask why your contributions are criticized by the fact that the Ministry of Education's investment programmes, for example. the operating aid refers to the 2013 data. This is where you have to admit that the coin has two sides. If we do not have data that we evaluate and monitor in any way, it would mean, of course, that every year all sports organisations would have to update their data towards the subsidy programmes of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, e.g. from the point of view of athletes or coaches. So, in this spirit, the register is supposed to operate in exactly the opposite way and remove it. With regard to other comments concerning the National Sports Council, we can, of course, discuss this, I do not want to delay the Chamber of Deputies, and the proposal was justified in the context of the explanatory report, and whether or not it is necessary, so of course this can be supplemented. As well as the question of a specific representation on the National Sports Council. [[16.20 hours]] I hope I haven't forgotten anything significant from the point of view of my reactions. I will allow myself to end my final word from the point of view of the responses I have made to the suggestions of Members and Members. I refer, of course, to a detailed debate within the Committee's discussion, where we will certainly have room to clarify a number of things. I would like to politely ask, at the end of my word, for the support of a given government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u73	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur has room for a final word, and then I register a request for a priority act. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u74	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I wanted to conclude by thanking all Members for an interesting debate, which will probably be brought to committee or committees, depending on how we will then vote. I would also like to thank all Members for their goodwill in helping Czech sport. I greatly appreciate that, because I grew up in a sports environment from my birth and I think that Czech sport has been neglected and deserves greater care both organizationally and financially. I would like to recommend press 590 to proceed to second reading and order it to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Thank you. And for today, I'd say goodbye to sports!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u75	[[With a smile.]] Thank you. Before we vote, I will give the floor to President Stanjur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u76	Mr rapporteur, through the President, it is all a "sport of success and football separately, esteemed football supporters" as the legendary Vít Holubec, the legend of sports commenting on football, said. I would like to check with the Minister because she said a sentence that I don't want to believe, but she has a legal education unlike me: "business company if it has a founding nonprofit character." [[unintelligible]] For example, the condition for obtaining a license in football is that it is a joint stock company. It's not a community service, if we understand each other. I was just pointing out the problem. I think it's rather unconscious and it's space to somehow remove it. When we started talking about the role of the Office for the Protection of Competition, and I see my honored colleague, Mr Vozka, here, I remember once that the Czech football club, or its owner, decided that he would list public support in Brussels as he is, and he asked the wrong questions in Brussels, because everyone is doing it and nobody wants to deal with it. The vast majority of Western clubs go beyond de minimis support, we do it exactly the same way. Take a look at the city budgets where high-end football, hockey, basketball, volleyball and possibly other sports are played, where this de minimis rule is completely flagrantly repeatedly violated. But everyone's breaking it. So the application of this rule within Europe makes no sense. Rather, it would be worth taking the sport out of this at European level, because the amounts are million, perhaps ten million a year. And you know for yourself, especially in regional cities, how much annual support is. The fact that it is disguised for the operation of stadiums or youth is the support of the relevant organisation. So I wouldn't let the competition authority into this at all. We're just gonna make a problem, we're gonna be the only ones in Europe, we're not gonna solve anything, we're just gonna make it harder for clubs and athletes if we try to identify this. Second thing. And sometimes we can talk about unpleasant things, the ones we keep quiet about. If there's a quarc system working somewhere, it's in top sports. That's just the truth. All fighters against the quarcsystem go after checks, control companies and so on, but no one ever goes to check the sports club where athletes are at the I.C.O., billing a single company, and that's the sports club. I'm not criticizing it, because the moment you turn them into employees, you're gonna raise the club's costs. That's clear to all of us. But it's a problem we should be talking about. And either we should publicly admit that in sport we don't mind the quarc system, or anchor it somehow, or, if we really want to fight the quarcsystem, and that's what the left side of the political House wants, in particular, in terms of political conviction, not exactly the chair that sits on, which says they have to fight it, so start there. It's quite simple there. But there's no courage to start because it's really complicated. The problem really exists in many top sports. I say we tolerate it, but we can't pretend it doesn't exist. Speaking of sports problems in general, it is one of the sports that reduces costs, because labour costs are extremely high. But we do not want to accept it with companies, and we often try, control, fine, but with sports clubs that have a large audience background, we do not do it because it is not politically popular and it could bring negative political points to a politician or office. I think if the law narrows down, some paragraphs, like 6... Madam Secretary is wrong. If you look at the final part of the law, where there is actually an existing text and a boldly highlighted new paragrafo text, for example for the obligation of municipalities it is a new paragraph, it is there boldly. [[The Minister speaks to the Member from the rapporteur's table: One.]] One who, of course, says what you said. It's more of a rhetorical question. We're gonna get the municipalities to come up with a plan to promote sport. And? Are we going to check the budgets of the municipalities to see if they're carrying it out? We won't. I understand. We have no way. It's a separate scope. Then what's the point? It's in the Sports Support Act. Did we help that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u77	That was President Stanjura. I don't have any more requests for a priority right. Let's take a vote. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee, like the rapporteur, has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. I'll ask if there's another proposal. It's not like that. So we're going to vote. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the guarantee committee's commandment to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is serial number 265. Registered 173, 156, no one. This proposal was adopted. I state that we have ordered the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. No further proposals were made to the Committee's commandments by the Organising Committee. I'll ask if there's a motion for a commandment to another committee. Mr. Klán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u78	Since this issue concerns cities and municipalities, I propose a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-001-064.u79	I'll ask if there's another suggestion. It's not like that. We will decide by vote on the commandment of the Committee on Regional Development. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is in order 266. Registered 173, 75, 61. This proposal has not been adopted. We don't have anything else to vote on, which is why I'm ending point 64. Thank you to the rapporteur. Madam Secretary stays. Let's continue with the point.
