ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-009-031.u1	31. Proposal by Members Soňa Marková and Stanislav Mackovík to issue a law amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing some related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house printing 126/ - first reading We discussed this House press on 11 February 2015 at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where we interrupted it in the general debate. I would remind you that the Government's position was delivered as a House press 126/1. I ask that Mrs Soňa Marková take the position at the rapporteur's table. [[He's not present.]] In that case, I will ask Mr Stanislav Mackovík and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Igor Nykl, to sit here at the table for the appellants. So I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to take the position of both the rapporteur and the petitioner. [[It's done.]] So now we will continue the interrupted general debate. I'm filing two applications. I will therefore ask Mr Svoboda for his contribution to this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-009-031.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good day to you all. We're going back to the bill on public health insurance at a certain distance, so we're at a stage where about two thirds of them don't remember what was said here last time, and the remaining third isn't sure what she heard last time. For this reason, I think that some things really need to be reopened and repeated. The Act on Public Health Insurance, actually in this version of the Act on Regulatory Charges, passed a certain amendment, here we voted on it, and the completion of this law theoretically has the government prepared for the nearest period, the last date was June 2014, so that is the time that has passed somehow. And I just want to remind you of one crucial thing. We've canceled the regulatory fees here with the fact that they're not regulatory fees, that they don't make sense, and it was a statement from the Minister that he knows the data and he does, and we know today that it wasn't true. After the abolition of part of the regulatory fees, on January 1, hospitals were fulfilled so that it is not possible to place all people again, especially in long-term hospitals, because no one is leaving because of where they would go? Families don't want them, and it doesn't cost them anything. [[17.20 hours]] At the moment of the amendment, or the abolition of regulatory fees that are not regulatory, we have a refilled practice, and those offices operate in a completely different way. He actually did the regulatory fee for specialists that the insurance company paid for, for example, once a year a comprehensive preventive examination. This, of course, makes sense in a number of fields, these preventive examinations are actually capable of achieving that preventive effect, which is the only thing - a reduction in mortality to a diagnosis that is being preventively investigated. And, of course, those patients, when they had this kind of examination paid for, made sure that they didn't go there more often, so that they wouldn't have to pay the fee, and on the other hand, all the doctors were interested in keeping their patients in order to get a preventive examination. The impact of this was really huge. In a number of surgeries, the preventive examinations began to represent a truly fundamental part of the practice of those outpatient specialists. So crucial that it represented three quarters of all their activities. And today, we're back in reverse, that three-quarters of their activity is actually an examination at the request of patients, where there's really no justification for the examination, in many cases the patient or patient comes to talk. I get it, we're a country where there's no one to talk to, we don't have a lot of believers talking to their vicar, we don't have any institutions to take care of it, so doctors do it, but unfortunately they do it from the means that are designed to treat patients. I wouldn't fight it, patients need to be talked to. But the resources in health care are so desperately low that each loss simply means a completely fatal negative impact on the quality of care provided. We were assured that the failure of those funds that were not regulatory would be replaced. At this point, we know perfectly safely that it is not replaced, that about half of the missing funds, given these regulations, will be paid in some form. The resources needed to be released from other medical chapters. And the other half won't be replaced. This is, of course, when we know that we are moving in the order of the blackout somewhere around 4 billion, when we add it all together, this is a blackout, which is a very fundamental and very fundamental way, as I have already said, that affects the entire development of the treatment process in our country. I don't know how you get to see health care establishments, how often you go to them, but the truth is that hospitals that are actually very special from a social point of view, whether they're long-term hospitals, whether they're psychiatric hospitals, especially psychiatry for children, are establishments that have nothing to pay for their operation. We took their food funds, so they have to replace them with something else, but they don't really have any basic payment that they can make. These are devices that have no performance in the list of health performances for which she could receive some funds. She's got some flat-rate payment per head, and the flat-rate payment just doesn't cover the hospital's overhead. What does that mean? Those hospitals that finally started working a little better for the 30 - 50 - 80 or even 100 crowns have returned to their original condition. That means nursing care has to go down rapidly because it has to reduce nursing conditions. Of course, the impact on the whole care is absolutely essential, because in these sick, mentally ill children, the question of the care is actually the only thing that changes their outlook for the next life. The same applies to the old people, and we're all going to be expecting it someday, and I know it well there, and I wouldn't wish it very much for you to have to stand in such well-funded hospitals. I'm sure it's an uninteresting talk, but the talking has its meaning. It means that on the basis of the populist gesture, because it is pure populism, no one who does not work with it knows how negative it has impact, on the basis of this populist gesture we have avenged our citizens, and unfortunately we have avenged those who are the weakest who have the least chance to defend themselves. Now here we have a law that tries to abolish everything and give it back to everyone richly and widely for free. And nothing's free, it's all worth something. And unfortunately, what's free isn't worth much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-009-031.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. During the negotiations, I learned that the rapporteur, Igor Nykl, is not present, so now I will need us to formally vote on the new rapporteur for first reading. I have here a proposal for Mr Rostislav Vyzula to be the rapporteur. I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of the proposal for a change of the rapporteur at this reading to become Mr Rostislav Vyzula. It's a vote with order number 121. Members present are 155, in favour of proposal 104, against none. So the rapporteur for the first reading was designated by Mr Vyzula. Thank you. We'll continue the negotiations. The next party to the debate is Mr Leoš Heger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-009-031.u4	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm relieved that we already have a proper newsletter, so hopefully my performance won't be cut off as confusing. I would like to continue with what the Professor Svoboda has said here. The proposal that is put forward here has a explanatory note, which, I would say, is juicy described how regulatory fees have led to the impoverishment of our poor. But in addition, there are the two things that have usually been discussed in the recycling of proposals for regulatory fees, and that is whether the regulatory fee is regulated and whether it brings money. So the fact that it's regulated, or it's regulated, or a lot of those charges have been, is that Professor Svoboda has already explained quite well here. All I have to add to this is that the study carried out by the Institute for Health Informatics and Statistics sometime in 2013, I think it was clearly demonstrated that these fees were regulated over a period of about 10 percent. But what even the left in the House recognized was that, in particular, those ER fees were regulated, where the reduction remained against the years before the introduction of the fees by about 30%. So the regulatory effect here was clear. And the second part of the argument that the fees didn't bring any money is from the perspective of today's knowledge, when the fees are already virtually all cancelled and the remaining ones are relatively negligible in the amount of money, so at this stage it is clear that the regulatory fees of the four five billion have brought the four billion into our health care. It's money that's gonna be missing every year today, even though it's been compensated by other options, but it could have been here. [[17.30 hours]] So I think that canceling the emergency, which is the only, last, undisturbed regulatory charge left, is very wrong, that it will contribute to the fact that there will no longer be any involvement here, which is so small, or even so small, with the full scope of those regulatory fees, so that participation will really be extremely rare in the European context. I think that all of this is a reason for the motion to reject this proposal again in the first round, and if this proposal were to proceed to further discussion, I think that it would be worth writing an amendment to this proposal, which would, on the contrary, maintain the emergency fees and extend them to a medical emergency service, which is known to be being considerably abused in our context as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-009-031.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Furthermore, I do not see anyone enrolled in the debate. That's right. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the rapporteur or the petitioner wants to take the floor. Mr. Speaker, both of you. So, gentlemen, please. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-009-031.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the topic of fees in this House is not the first time. It is a problem that has been solved here for several years. It is not the fault of our petitioners that this bill amendment came to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies only a year after it was prepared and presented by us. In the meantime, as he has mentioned here, through the President, Mr Docent Svoboda, there has already been some adjustment, but we still have the emergency fees. As the representatives of the right said here, the fees were almost a miracle in the Czech health sector, which brought billions extra. In a very simple way, if it weren't for IZIP, there wouldn't be medical fees. On the other hand, we purposely mention once that these are regulatory fees, the second time that those fees are quite different. That means we're talking about regulating patients. I think the only regulation of patients could be their medical condition, which means diagnosis. The current argument that money is missing from something and that the elimination of those charges that were here before brought about the nearest destruction of our health care is purposeful. Cancellation of fees was not a populist step, it was a systemic step, because we do not think that the introduction of fees and their application is good, and I understand that the right wants to charge everything and wants patients to get used to paying twice for health care. One by paying for health insurance, and the other by coming to the office. There was a motion to dismiss the law. I have already mentioned here that the law lay in a drawer somewhere for over a year before it could be discussed, and I would like to ask here that we can go through this law for a second reading, where, of course, we will reflect on what has already been done here in that period between the prepared law and the law that we are discussing here today. We have a solution ready. And as far as the E.R. is concerned, no one has yet said how we're going to deal with the fact that the patient who comes to the E.R. pays the fee regardless of the medical problem and the diagnosis he's made there. In other words, the state of the moment is such - if a patient with a myocardial infarction comes into an emergency room, and it does not always have to be a medical hospital or it doesn't have to be a hospital surgery, then he should pay the charge and then be taken to the hospital by emergency services. On the other hand, it was also said that the emergency is being abused. I believe that the only solution, and we would like to present this at second reading, is to bring the law into line with what was adopted here last year and what is already in force, so that the only aspect to whether it is overuse of health care is the diagnosis of the patient to be determined by the treating physician. It should also be noted that health charges from those who accepted them, that is to say, recipients of health fees, were used to purchase velocipeds, travel abroad, fishing rods and the like. I do not think that these items favour or improve the provision of healthcare. We have a comprehensive proposal prepared at second reading, which we would like to put forward, which would actually reflect the real situation, and that the health assessment should primarily be attended by a doctor, not an administrative measure issued by the law. Therefore, I would very much like to ask you to allow this law for second reading, where we would come up with a comprehensive amendment so that this law is actually functional and follows up on the legislation that has been adopted here in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-009-031.u7	I thank you, Mr Member, and I shall ask the rapporteur, who has also declared his final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-009-031.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I mean, even though I got to this point by accident, I would still be a little bit back on the regulatory fees, because my proposal at the end is a little different. First, the regulatory fee. What the regulatory fee regulated. In some areas, maybe so, but otherwise, in my practice, I usually meet with chronic patients that I force, or I suggest, and more or less recommend that they come to further control. They'll come to the check and have to pay the regulatory fee. Total nonsense. And that's how it is for all chronic patients. I would like to read here what we have in the coalition agreement and in the government's programming statement: We will promote a change in the system called. regulatory fees. The principle will be justice and solidarity so that chronic and socially weaker patients are not disadvantaged. We'll push for change. We've pushed for change, that's true. In some areas, I think it was right, but in some areas it was wrong to pay hospital fees. We know it was a mistake. And now we want to make it worse. 90 kroner for emergency is minimum. Emergency medical services are being abused, costing thousands of every exit, and we are losing valuable resources. The participation of our citizens, i.e. us, in health care is constantly decreasing, was 16-17 percent, and now it is around 15 percent. In developed countries, it is usually about 21-22 percent. We need medical resources. Whether we have enough resources in health care or not, no macroeconomics has said so far, but I believe seminar 15. 4. on this subject, which is organized by the Health Committee, will tell us a lot. So for these reasons, when we basically reduced health fees, we reduced the involvement of patients, when we removed certain disadvantages for chronic patients, but on the other hand we abolished the hospital fee, increased the demands for health care, I would rather recommend that we reject this proposal, with the fact that on the other hand I would strongly support further discussion on the topic of health participation. It is extremely important from my point of view that we get to the level of developed countries. From this point of view, my proposal is to reject it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-009-031.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. We will therefore now vote first on the motion for rejection. In the general debate, Mr Nykl and Mr Heger both presented him. I'm registering the check-out request. I'll check you out and ask you to rejoin the system. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of rejecting the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? This is serial number 122, the Members present are 133, in favour of proposal 99, against 32. I note that this proposal has been adopted and the bill has been rejected. I'm done discussing this point. I thank both the rapporteur and the rapporteur. I'm opening another point. That's what it is.
