ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-005-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended /house print 262/ - second reading The submitted proposal under the authority of the Government shall be made by Minister Jiří Dienstbier. I'll ask him to take the floor. I also ask my colleague Vladimír Koníček to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-005-005.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by stressing that this bill is not an accompanying law to the amendment of the Constitution, which has been passed by the Chamber of Deputies of the Senate and is waiting for discussion in the Senate. This amendment to the Act on the Supreme Audit Office is, in principle, a technical amendment designed to adapt the law to previous legislative changes, i.e. to remedy some obsolete legislation on the status and activities of the Supreme Audit Office contained in the Act. Norma was adopted in 1993. Since then, the legal system has undergone a number of changes which have not yet been reflected in the legal regulation of the position and activities of the Supreme Audit Office. Furthermore, in response to developments in the field of information systems, the draft law also regulates this issue with regard to their use by the Supreme Audit Office in particular when carrying out checks. Last but not least, some institutes are incorporated into the draft law to make the planning of the SAO's controls more effective, as well as other adjustments resulting from the existing application of the law in practice. The main points include the introduction into the legal regulation of the SAO's terminological changes in relation to changes in the legal order, as already indicated, in particular in the field of private and labour law and the organisation of public prosecutors, the obligation to issue the SAO's journal containing audit findings on the SAO's website, to adapt the legislation on the use of information technology, particularly in the SAO's control activities, the current level of development of these technologies, and to allow the SAO's audit plan to provisionally obtain the documentation for the assessment of which specific entities have included in the control activity plan. This change is intended to contribute to ensuring greater efficiency and efficiency of controls and to some extent to respond to the demand for the elimination of certain duplications of control mechanisms. As I was saying, the bill is a technical amendment, and I'm going to ask you for his support. Perhaps still for discussion in the Supervisory Committee, where amendments have been adopted, which, except perhaps one exception, are of a technical nature and are acceptable. As for the material change, there I would then, it would be practical rather at third reading, but also for the negotiations here took a neutral position. It is acceptable, but I will not take a negative or supportive stance on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-005-005.u3	Thank you to Minister Jiří Dienstbier. We ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Supervisory Committee. The committee resolution has been delivered to us as the House Press 262/1, which is why I ask the rapporteur, Mr Vladimír Koníček's Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, to present a news report. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-005-005.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Audit Committee has dealt with this proposal in detail and adopted Resolution 83 at its 12th meeting on 15 January, which you are all given as the House Press 262/1. The Supervisory Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill amending Act No.166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, be approved and recommends five amendments that you have in press 262/1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-005-005.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate that I have no application for, and I am asking who is applying from the point of view. I see no one, i.e. I am ending the general debate. I am opening a detailed debate and I am stating that I have no written application for it either, and I am asking if anyone is reporting from the point of view to the detailed debate. I don't see anyone either, and I am ending the debate in detail. Under the circumstances, I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. Since there was no proposal that we could vote on at second reading, I am ending the second reading of this bill. According to the approved agenda, we have a meeting before us.
