ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 426/2011 Coll., on Pension Savings, as amended /German press 382/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. I now ask, under the authority of the Government, that the proposal also be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, Mr Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has put forward a draft law amending Act No. 426/2011 Coll., on Pension Savings, as amended. This proposal concludes the possibility of entering the so-called the second pillar of pension savings. Entry into the system will thus be stopped in advance of completion of the second pillar, thereby preventing an increase in the number of participants before completion of the system. The aim of this amendment of the Act is to reduce administrative requirements in the context of the settlement of participants' resources and to avoid unjustified costs. In particular, this will not increase the amount of funds that would be redirected from pension insurance to the pension pillar as a result of the entry of new participants. From the beginning of 2013 to the end of 2014, the amount of funds redirected from pension insurance to pension savings is estimated to be 1.5 billion. Crowns. With the possibility of entering the second pillar, the requirement of 50 thousand is also deleted. participants in pension funds within two years from the date of authorisation to create pension funds. It is also proposed to extend the existing exemption from the investment limit for the initial period of existence of pension funds until the end of 2016. This regulation will also enable investment conservatively in funds which are not conservatively targeted under the Statute and the Act. The purpose of this amendment is, in particular, to protect participants' resources from major fluctuations in the value of the pension funds' assets before the termination of the pension savings scheme and the payment of the funds to the participants. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to approve the proposed bill at first reading. In terms of the purpose of the proposed legislation, the temporal aspect plays a major role. The proposed legislation will only fulfil its purpose if it becomes effective as soon as possible, if possible in the first months of 2015, but in any event in good time before the start of the pension savings due to take place on 1 January 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Zdeněk Syblík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no great interest in participating in the second pillar. Only about 83,000 people use it, especially because pension savings anchor a number of unattractive conditions, among other things. It is referred to as voluntary. However, it would be more accurate to describe this as mandatory with voluntary entry, because it is impossible to get out of the second pillar. Anyone who enters the second pillar undertakes to spend the rest of his active career taking his savings into a privately managed fund, i.e. without a guarantee from the state. These private funds can invest at risk of loss. Of course, the management of the saved funds is not for free, but for remuneration, 10 per cent. No one can draw the savings before the old-age pension is granted. Everyone must conclude a pension insurance contract with the life insurance company. Pension insurance with a life insurance company is also not free of charge, but for payment under the terms of the life insurance undertaking. In view of the stated objective of halting the entry of new participants into the pension savings scheme decided by the Government, it is necessary that the proposed legislation becomes effective as soon as possible. But that's what the Minister has been talking about. For this reason, I recommend that the Chamber of Deputies give its consent to the bill in the first reading in accordance with § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate, in which President Kalousek, after whom President Okamura, Mr Vilímec, has signed up with priority. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the two MPs, ODS and TOP 09, I would like to pronounce the veto on the procedure under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. I am warmed by the fact that I also do so in accordance with the internal opinion of Prime Minister Babiš, who once called the abolition of the second pillar a cardinal error and a mistake that he should not have agreed to in the coalition treaty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u7	Thank you to President Kalousek. Mr Okamura, now with priority right, and I note the veto of two Members' clubs, therefore we will not approve this law in accordance with Section 90. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, let me just briefly comment on this proposal. We are happy for the Úsvit movement that another program point of the Úsvit movement is being implemented and that is the abolition of the so-called "Dawn" movement. the second pension pillar. From our point of view, this is one of the examples of the arrogance of Mr Kalousek's former government, which has decided to privatise everything possible, including part of pension insurance income. We do not yet have a clear fact in the debate on pension reform, and whoever is leading it. For pensions and living standards of old or helpless people are guaranteed and must always be guaranteed by the state, by the government. The state simply does not get rid of this responsibility, and that is why its considerations on how to provide for pensions must also be based on it. In our opinion, the only form that the state can provide today is ongoing funding from the state budget. If the state seems to have little money for pensions, it must rethink the priorities and find the necessary resources. In doing so, the state has and is collecting more and more money from citizens. I realize that this is a cliché, but I am quite convinced that simply increasing the efficiency of money management would bring the necessary money to the government immediately. Unfortunately, in this respect, we are still hearing only idle promises and further debt. To this mania privatize pensions I dare quote a respected economist docent. Ilona Švihlíková, who said: "If it goes to a fully-funded system, the best, or the logical response of women will have no children at all, because at that moment having children is a voucher to poverty. " And here's a really buried dog. Here, too, let me quote a Czech economist from a time when he has not yet been paid by commercial insurance companies. "The Czech pension system is based on the assumption that all adult individuals will have children." However, this is no longer the case. There are more and more individuals who have not contributed to the system, meaning the first pension pillar, but who receive benefits from it. According to him, the solution lies in crowding out these so-called. Black passengers. I'd slightly correct the quote. We all contribute to the system, but we need to take account of how. The state must really support and appreciate those who have and properly raise hardworking children in proper families. There is no ever greater taxation of the poorest, there is no way of luring immigrants, as the current government shows, without a single mandate from the voters, because before the elections, this government did not have a programme to invite immigrants from Muslim countries to our country. The only solution is to have children here, our children and those children learn to work. There's no other way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u9	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Now please give priority to Mr President of the Civil Democratic Party, Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has launched -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u11	I am very sorry, Mr President, I would like to ask the House to keep it down, so that you will not continue until the noise level falls significantly here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u12	So I only said half the first sentence. With this step, the government has launched the abolition of the second pillar of pension savings, even though it is, in fact, a ban on entry into the second pillar at the moment. The government is clearly telling us: We are stopping one reform, one attempt to solve the problems that this company has and will have, and this is a problem with how to provide sufficient funds for pensions, for the decent life of our seniors, but no other reform, no other concept, no other solution has been submitted by the government, and I do not see this as extremely responsible. It is also irresponsible that the government is playing with the trust of citizens here. More than 80,000 people believed, wanted to be responsible, wanted to save on their future, and the state now says to them: It was useless, we cancel the second pillar, but we have nothing else, wait for some months or years and we may come up with something better. At this point, we know very well what the government doesn't want. The government doesn't want medical fees, the government doesn't want people to go shopping whenever they want, and businessmen have opening hours that they decide. The government does not want businessmen and small businessmen to have simple conditions for their work. The government doesn't want teachers to have enough time to learn, but it wants them to have to deal with bureaucracy and other things. However, we do not know any real concept of solving the fundamental problems faced by this company. The government does not have such a concept and does not have such a concept even in the case of a pension scheme. We don't know how the government plans to secure pension payments for the 30s today, the 40s. However, we know that every year the pension system has a deficit of tens of billions of crowns and that there is no solution that would somehow reduce this deficit in the current system, change, prepare a perspective for our seniors. It is, of course, possible to disturb the second pension pillar, ladies and gentlemen, and I would be prepared to discuss it if the government said: This was right-wing, bad, and we have a good left-wing concept here, which will mean that in the next ten twenty years the pension system will look like this and so on. There's no such thing on the table. On the table is just stopping one attempt to solve problems with the penzium, without having any option against it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is completely irresponsible. Here the old-fashioned conservative principle applies, and it should also apply to left - minded people: do not change things unless you are sure that the ones you bring will be better. There's nothing better to bring, there's one thing being liquidated, there's no other on the table, there's no government concept. In such a situation, we really cannot welcome the abolition of the second pillar of pension savings. And I am also taking this opportunity to call on the government, when it is already doing these irresponsible steps, to present as quickly as possible some rational, sensible concept of the pension system, which it will also discuss with the opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u13	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Jiří Dolejš, with a proper application by Mr Vilímec. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u14	Thank you for the floor. I cut my ears. Because there was a challenge on the left, I'm responding. I think that the left really should have been ambitious not to change what worked and not get into experiments. And you stomped on this ambition by going forcefully into the reform of the pension system by pushing through the second pillar. When we said, and not just the Communists, but others, that after the election, when things were going down with you, that we wanted to change this system after the election, and that all the participants had clear information that what was going on now would happen, you didn't notice. So of course the system, the way it's built here, is hybrid, it's unbuilt, it's unstable, but you invented the only answer: to privatize part of it and put it in capital funds. This answer is insufficient. That's why we promised the voters what we promised before the election, and now it's coming true. And unfortunately, it seems like you're going to have any other political agreement on how this should be reasonably completed and done, you're going to sabotage it. Nothing terrible will happen now. Okay, maybe the effectiveness of this law will not be over by April 1st, because it seems that your famous second pillar here is so uninterested that even though it began to spread through media channels that it could be speculated on compensation for the few hundred that the state has put there as support, it didn't even break people and the number of participants doesn't grow. So what are we talking about here? It's half a step, I agree. But then half a step should come B and C in a reasonable direction and a reasonable direction needs a substantive match, not just a torpedo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u15	I thank Mr Dolejš. Now, with proper application, Mr Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u16	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear colleagues, during the last parliamentary term, I was the rapporteur for pension reform as a member of the Committee on Budgets. I remember sitting here for hours and hours when the pension reform was being discussed, not just the pension savings law. That is why I will not forgive myself in a situation where, after the second pillar has operated for two years, the government is proposing the effective start of dismantling the entire pension reform. I don't think it is appropriate for the government to request an accelerated hearing under Section 90 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2, because it is a really serious matter that is not just about our generation, but about future generations. I have read in very detail the explanatory memorandum, which refers to the results of the so-called professional pension commission, which was set up by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. On Monday and yesterday, I read with interest the work materials of this expert board on pension reform, especially the so-called first working team, which deals with the abolition of the second pillar of pension savings, and I was quite surprised by the level of materials and outputs. As if the team working to dismantle pension reform is merely a stasis of something that the coalition government has already decided in advance and needs only the appearance of an expert opponent to do so. Some of the members of the Commission, and this is quite interesting, and I want to stress this here, to be precise, rather the working team, are based on the premise that the so-called small pension reform imposed by the government of Petr Nečas and carried out by the government of Petr Nečas, i.e. setting up a gradual increase in pension age, has solved the situation in the long term. We have to choose: Will we criticise the previous government for only taking very bad steps in matters of pensions? Or, on the contrary, will we praise this government, as it is in the Commission's work materials, that, in principle, by promoting a small pension reform, it has resolved this system? I'd like to quote from the work team material I read. It was actually the only larger material associated with the second pillar and the end of the pension savings. The material was presented by Professor Jaroslav Vostatek, a well-known opponent of the introduction of the second pillar of the pension system. I'll quote. In his opinion and opinion, a demographic study referred to by Professor Vostatek: "Small pension reform has changed substantially the relation of the number of persons employed and those at retirement age. According to this study, the pension system's burden in 2050 will increase significantly in relation to the decline in working age per pensioner in the ratio of 1.62:1, but in 2100 it will be higher in proportion, i.e. 2.2:1, i.e. in a higher proportion than it is today." From this, Professor Vostatek concluded that there would actually be no need to reduce old-age pensions, because it is only a partial deterioration of the mentioned session over a hundred years. What is this committee declaring so far? A pension scheme based on more savings, diversification of resources at a time of retirement age is useless. The nonNečasův government was wrong and merely spooked citizens with its purposeful arguments to engage in pension savings in the interests of several financial groups. No wonder, in such a one-sided argument, the idea arises that the best way is to actually do nothing, rely on the ongoing system, and everything will work fine. If there are fiscal arguments mentioned here also by President Fiala, because we know that in recent years the pension account is constantly in deficit, this will be done by saying that there is no indication that the two items of the state budget, namely income from pension insurance premiums and pension insurance benefits paid, are related. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot base ourselves on an optimistic demographic scenario. The claim that in a hundred years the situation will be demographically better than it is now is interesting, I have never heard it, but so be it, but a responsible politician can hardly build on such a prognosis. Yes, the pension reform was redirected to pension funds by 3 %. We know all that. It also happened that part of the collection of value added tax revenue under budgetary rules was redirected to a pension account. That's very little to mention. When Mr Dolejš spoke here that only 82, 83,000 people were involved in pension savings, I was one of them. I have actually been involved in pension savings, so I may be biased in this matter, in a conflict of interest. I certainly expected and expected our state to follow the rules it laid down. I think that many other pension savings participants will think similarly. The fact that similar systems work in the world or at least are considered, as is apparent, does not interest the government so much. It is interesting when Mr Kalousek spoke here about the fact that internally, I do not know exactly, Minister Babiš is not aware of the abolition of the second pillar, so he appears in the conclusions of the Commission that the only Ministry of Finance complicates the situation. That's what I want to say here, too. I do not want to talk for long because it is clear that, as has been the case here recently, a strong government majority decides that the debate is ongoing, but the government does not usually listen. I will confess and will, in conclusion, merely repeat what President Fiala has mentioned. On the one hand, we interrupt something, on the other hand, we do not present anything, and we claim that everything will work perfectly, that there is no need to do anything. I don't think so. I think it is a very irresponsible policy, and we need to see it this way. That's why, because I think it hasn't come out yet, at the end of my speech, I'm making a motion to reject this bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u17	I thank Mr Vilímc. Before I give the floor to Mr Laudát, Mr Plzák, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I don't think this is such a tragedy, because people who have surplus funds and want to secure their old age in some way may not put funds in the second pillar, but they can invest them in another way. They can invest them in gold, other commodities, in stocks. That depends on them. It has the advantage that if they need the funds emergencyly, they can take them again at any time, whereas it was not possible with the second pillar. Then there was a little pension reform. I wouldn't have seen the credit. I was not in Parliament, but I think that a small pension reform was forced by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which said that since it is an insurance system, the insurance performance of the insurance system should somehow correspond to the premium paid, which was not the case. The system has some elements of solidarity in it, and that solidarity was too great. That's what I think was the essence of why it came to this. But still, the scissors between what we take out on insurance, and what we end up getting as a pension, they're too big. [[15.50 hours]] And as for that, I see it as unfortunate that it really was called upon here to consult with the opposition for further reform of the insurance system. I only caught it from the press back then. I don't think there was much discussion about the opposition back then. As far as I can remember, it was just this: there you have it, and this is how it's gonna be. So I hope that maybe we'll be better, we'll consult with the opposition, and we'll see how they contribute to some kind of reform for the future. I think that such an important thing should go across the House, across the political spectrum, because these are the fates of this country's population and into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u19	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u20	Thank you. I apologize for prolonging this, but what has just been said deserves to be set straight. I understand that Dr. Plzák was not here at the time, but the debate with the opposition, particularly with social democracy, was infinitely intense about pension reform. There have even been a number of requests for concessions. A mandatory second pillar system was originally designed. At the moment the opposition told us that if it was mandatory, we could not count on them to continue thinking about support, we switched to the voluntary system. If I'm blaming myself, it's that we made this concession back then. And if we did it, we didn't do it at least by the system that the insured person must actively express his disagreement with entering the second pillar. The legislative regulation is such that it requires active consent. I think that if active disapproval was requested, the ratio of insured people is completely different today. I'm sorry. Maybe we should have been more consistent about this. But it's just not true that we didn't deal with the opposition, and it's not true that we didn't make concessions. I believe that the opposition's approach was exactly the same as - of course, not that I compared it morally, but the same tactic as the Henleinův party's approach to the Benešův administration. We're just gonna make so many demands, and we're gonna escalate them so they can't be fulfilled, so we couldn't make a deal. But we've been looking for the deal. We've been looking for it for quite a long time. Two. Please let us understand, when we talk about it being replaced by some things in the third pillar, we do not solve the fundamental problem moving in the dimension of compulsory insurance. The third pillar, or its substitutions, which may take place in capital insurance, not in pension or any other similar product on the financial market, is beyond 28 per cent. All of us who are employed or who pay tax on dependent activities pay 28 percent of the price of our work on what is called pension insurance, but it is rather a pension tax. It is simply a mandatory contribution, which accounts for 28 percent of the price of our work. Indifferently, how much we pay and how much our employer pays, it's just our gross income, it's the price of our work. Logically, there's a lot of 28 percent in some people. And the system that occupies the solution of these 28 percent, whether it's the first or the second pillar, or both, should have two principles in it. The principle of solidarity and merit. The problem is, of course, the principles go against each other. The greater the financial tension, the greater the pressure on expenditure against revenue. So logically one principle beats the other one, which in our case is a very dramatically prevailing principle of solidarity, or, if you want equality, above the principle of merit. Even to the point that the Constitutional Court, by a decision I did not agree with, but had to respect it like any politician, simply ordered the principle of merit to be increased in the first pillar. Whether or not there were resources for this. Then there are only two options: either to add resources or to reduce the degree of equality. We did it back then, B-- the egalitarian process was reduced. If the Constitutional Court insisted on joining someone, it must have taken somebody away from the system. However, in the long run, the system is long-term deficit, and the scissors are unfortunately open and will open up more and more, it cannot turn out any other way than that, within the first and after your decision, it will tend to a single pillar again. It can't end up in that continuous first pillar, it can't end up any other way than it's going to tend to a equal dose. Just the principle of solidarity, or if you want equality, outweighs almost 100% the principle of merit, which should also be in that system! And I don't know another principle, because it's within that one pillar where the two principles go against each other, so I don't know any other way than to divide 28 percent into two parts. Make that one fully egalitarian, that's the first pillar. And make the other one fully creditworthy. Then you have both principles represented in the volume of the 28 percent. It's not freaking out at all! I don't know who made that word up! Both are mandatory, which means both remain in the pension system! Even when it is a condition for entering the second pillar to add a percentage of its own, no matter how much, in our case two percent, but the parameter may be another, so it is not an expediency, but a strengthening of funds for the pension system. Because that's where the extra money comes in, and the first and second pillars have to be added up. The first solves solidarity and equality, the second solves merit. You guys just crossed the principle of merit out of that system. Well, it's your legitimate right. But you don't come up with any other idea at all to strengthen the principle of merit in the pension system! You're just going back to 100% equality again. Like, what does your Prime Minister say, like right-wing people with social feelings? No, no, that's socialism, that's not social feeling. This is simply the abolition of the principle of merit within the framework of compulsory insurance, the return to equality and the offer of no other alternative. I'm not saying we were the bearers of the only truth. We just did the first inter-step that was supposed to continue to be strengthened. And I would accept it if you said, "That's wrong, we're going to secure the principle of merit within 28 percent otherwise!" I don't know how, but I don't have to be the smartest guy in the world. But you don't say that! You don't know how, but you're gonna cancel the only thing that the principle of merit in that system was trying to implement and maintain. That's the terrible mistake, the terrible step back. And history will add up one day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u21	Thank you to President Kalousek. Another duly signed up is Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to make a shortcut for Members like Dr Plzák here to clarify things. Not everything was written, but it was written. Somewhere before 2006, so called. Bezděkův committee. All parliamentary parties have been represented. I don't know exactly the system of negotiations, but a kind of proposal has been fundamentally generated. In defence of the communists, I must say that between 2006 and 2010, the only party from then parliamentary parties who fought against the creation, against pension reform, were the creation of a second pillar. The Social Democrats have accepted it, virtually. even supported it until some time, however, they were not too willing to talk about it. And gradually, as time passed, just as they made dead bugs, they declared that there was a need for agreement across the political spectrum, but at the same time they acted the same way, and where it was the end as with the law on budgetary responsibility, we also wanted to agree, everything, then they met where they could. When the coalition last year and the great international pressure of institutions such as the OECD, who kept pointing out that we have no defined long-term sustainable pension system, pension system, then the coalition came out to social democrats, to meet, from the mandatory was also brought down under the pressure of unionists with whom you like today so much, they are the same people, to volunteer, of course, after a violent attempt by neighbouring Slovakia, I think they had ten percent mandatory and a huge campaign of funds came to get into serious trouble, so then they softened it and reduced the percentages, so here it was approached by a very careful safe run. The fact is, we also wanted to involve motivation regarding children who could contribute. It crashed on one strange movement, which is now approaching, for example, the Dawn movement, something similar. So this is just objectively not true. What frightens me is that when I hear - I'm not a member of the second pillar cancellation committee, or whatever his name is, under the former comrade who runs it, however, I only hear his appearance on TV. Do you really want to trust people in quotes of these qualities, and do you want to experiment with the future of this country? You yourself, who cares, know the demographic curves. You know what they'll be like soon, and there are actually shares of individual age groups in our society today. You haven't yet - the commission hasn't come up with any sustainable model, and you're not ashamed to come up with it to block something in the '90s, more or less. And that people started speculating after some of your statements. I'm gonna ask: If something starts to be advantageous, such as building savings, then the people who started entering, are speculators, or are they people looking for an opportunity, want to save somewhere and, of course, make some money? You want to fight against this human nature, too? As for today's proposal, you know, it's just absolutely incredible what you're trying here. You're really pushing this republic into a very crisis situation, because today the SAO issued some kind of return finding that the pension system has been permanently in deficit for several years. I warn you, when I happened to be in charge of the Social Committee's Sub-Committee on Pension Reform in 2007, Mr Škromach told me on one occasion, because at that time there were excesses of the pension system: why do we have to deal with this today? And that was the starting point for their further behavior, when, according to then economic forecasts, curves, income, and the number of people entering, and the age of life, the pension account was actually going to go into deficit in 15 years. So why should we deal with it today, if we can deal with it, then let the population handle it, the political representation in 15 years? This unbelievable statement has indeed been made. But something else happened. In 2008, the economic crisis, which started with the United States, the mortgage crisis, has been joining us within a few weeks. And suddenly, the numbers of unemployed people began to grow dramatically, social withdrawals fell, the number of unemployed people increased, and suddenly, waving what was supposed to happen for fifteen years, happened within one year. And it hasn't gotten to the bottom of it ever since, and, of course, the deficit is on the rise. And you're just interrupting today, you've introduced three VAT rates - what was it for these people? Are the drugs really cheaper? A few booksellers could be heard to make things cheaper, but like when you go to the store and you see the publications, is that really what you should have done? Besides the fact that you've complicated your life and maybe you've driven business and even more profit to drug distributors around the drugs, you've probably managed to do that based on some analyses, otherwise it has no effect. You complicate people's lives. But the situation here is much more serious, because it really is quite a thing that no one wants to talk about, but we're about to start getting closer to some half of the budget, which is bound to one single ministry, it was about 42 percent, I don't know how much it was the last time, that it's a chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' budget, and then no one's going to make such reforms day after day, and it's not going to ensure that it's going to be able to finance even the weak pensions that you have in the future, and maybe you're ordaining for our successors. So I call on you to withdraw this point. At the end of my speech, I will even make a proposal, because it would seem to me responsible - we want to take action here, cancel the second pillar, and here we are presenting at least the framework of this system and behind it is an economic analysis of sustainability, a financial analysis of the sustainability of the system. Where's the analysis? What do you want to offer? You're so gambled with society that in this case, it's almost up to you to carry criminal liability for the future, because this country, you're in danger of being disrupted in some kind of horizon in a way that can't be consolidated without really drastic measures. Another thing about merit, which the Constitutional Court has even expressed, and it is hardly likely that anyone will say that the Constitutional Court is going to the hands of the right-wing parties, whom the YES movement, when it participates in this, and even actively participates, cannot in any way be marked in this way. But there's another dimension. I've already pointed that out. We have a vice-premiere for science, innovation, and I don't know everything, research, development, science, and your minister here has also presented that part of the regulated funds have been dramatically taxed. There was a unique chance, because by your behavior, by making laws and by spying on an entrepreneur unpleasant, there is, of course, a risk of capital poverty on this country in a relatively short period of time. By sending it out of 5%, if you remember it, 19 percent, so crappy competitive means, conditions in the market for financing innovative projects of venture capital, apparently no one in Europe has, I don't know, now the Ministry of Industry and Trade has to give the Economic Committee an analysis of the competitiveness of our financial projects after your amendment to the law, so far it's not going to happen, but it's probably possible to track it elsewhere if the Ministry doesn't do it with hundreds of officials, so we'll do it ourselves. [[16.10 hours]] Here was a unique chance that it would be possible for the right environment not to say by some legislative instruments, but especially by a good environment actually to hold the funds that funds would get into the second pillar to go into Czech infrastructure, into interesting projects that would accelerate development. Some countries did. Citizens would know that in their infrastructure that no one would carry, they would have their finances. You don't finance the dramatic construction of highways. I think that last year after one year of Zemanův's government will be the worst in terms of construction of road infrastructure since 1993 when the Czech Republic was founded. And this was the chance that these funds could be directed into a series of actions. In case infrastructure projects don't bring that much money, the infrastructure still does, and the value would be there. The state could partially buy it out, and that would just be the biggest guarantee. No gold, no silver, through the President, Mr Plzák. That's ridiculous for the size of the entire company. Most companies aren't squirrelly enough to speculate on stock exchanges. They're not gallbladders to speculate about real estate. They're not gallbladders to follow the movements of gold, speculate on commodity exchanges, etc. It's just always a narrow group of people. And let's not argue that this is simply how we are able to prevent, and even today we are already pulling out a part of society that is starting to deal with poverty, from below at least to dignified conditions. So what you're doing here today is terrifying for the future. Therefore, it seems perfectly logical to me if you are just a little responsible, so you will support my procedural proposal to interrupt this point until the government presents the House with a concept and an economically sustainable model of its ideas for pension reform. Thank you for your attention and I ask that this proposal be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u23	I thank Mr Laudát. We have here a procedural proposal to put to the vote without debate. I understand you don't want to go to the end of the general debate? You want it now. Okay. I will, therefore, have the opportunity for individual Members to make a decision on this. [[A larger number of Members are coming into the hall.]] We will vote on the proposal by Mr Laudát, who has proposed the interruption of press negotiations of 382 until the Government presents the concept of pensions. I checked you out so far. I'm begging you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards to ensure the correct number of people present. We will vote on the proposal to interrupt this item in the vote on order number 24, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 24. Of the 147 present for 36, versus 104. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore continue the debate. Mr Pavel Plzák, with a factual remark, then a duly signed-in Mr Beznoska. I therefore ask Mr Plzák to take the floor on a point of fact. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u24	Thank you, Mr President. With all due respect to my colleague Laudát. My speech didn't say the word "chicken." I merely said that excess funds can be invested by everyone. And if he doesn't dare to do it himself, you know that there's a line, and I think sometimes very solid investment funds, that there are various savings insurances available here, etc. So don't impose on me again what I didn't say at all. I'm not going to put out all the opportunities for people to lay off their surplus funds. You know it well how to do it. I think those people, our citizens, who have the resources, will always find the way to store the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u25	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Mr Laudát's point of fact, then Mr Kučera's point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u26	Thank you. I will respond to Mr. Plzák. You know, if you invest as a private businessman, through the President, of course, it's your big risk. If you read the existing legislation on the second pension system, there's a higher level of protection against gambling, before losing, before the fund embezzles your funds. There is an order of greater protection and stricter supervision of pension funds. That means you will never invest as a private investor, you will not invest as safely as it is guaranteed in the second pillar today. That's a crucial difference. Because if you go to the stock market to speculate, it's just your risk, you lose. While there are many risks covered, funds are monitored, supervised by the Czech National Bank etc. There is simply more protection in order, and this was also a response to the economic crisis, when many of these, for example, giga-funds in the United States have been in some kind of trouble for some time. But again, it was your favorite Rusnok who showed us back then as the head of the Pension Funds Association charts at various seminars, because there were really a number of seminars, discussions, debating associations, subcommittees, committees, etc. that, in fact, even the deepest crises - they just got out of it quite quickly, and that, for example, they lost their fortune in the long term. There's a tradition that didn't threaten fundamental stability. Some have gone into crisis for a temporary period, but it has not threatened them. For example, they lost property worth -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u27	My colleague, you've run out of time to make a point of fact. Thank you. Before Mr Kučera talks, allow me to state three apologies received, Mrs Bohdalová from 16 a.m., Mrs Putnová from 17.45 a.m. and Mrs Golasovská from 18 a.m. Now, Mr Kučera, then Mr Borka, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u28	Thank you for the floor. I must respond to Mr Plzák's speech, who has sent a truly frightening signal into the world when he says, "Do not believe in our pension system, make sure of your own future. Shop for gold, invest. Our pension system will not provide you with funds." It is indeed a frightening signal sent by a representative of the government coalition to the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Borka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for the stew. I voted in favour in the last vote, but it came out against it. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u31	You do not question the vote. Okay. That was for the log. Mr Beznoska is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u32	Thank you for the floor. My dear colleagues, I will make a point of order. All the important things were said. I'm one of those, too. who say that the abolition of the second pillar is not good. The population is getting old. In 2050, there will be two old-age pensioners on an active one. The pace of debt in the pension account for the last two years around 52 billion a year, three years ago 33 billion a year. It's just that the deficit is getting deeper and something needs to be done about it. [[16.20 hours]] The option is that we would increase the levy, but since 28 per cent is one of the highest costs of ancillary labour costs within the European Union, this is not the way to go. Then it is quite clear that we must seek a solution in order to ensure that old age in some way during our active life. One of those attempts, and I think very good, was the introduction of the large pension reform, which means the introduction of the second pension pillar, and we could actually talk about parameters. In fact, unlike Mr Kalousek, I think that the possible solution was to introduce entry into the second pillar as mandatory and to allow, say, two after three years of possible abandonment. Maybe we don't have to have this debate today. So, basically, you cut off one third of all possible solutions based on your pre-election political agitation. In the world and in a number of European countries, and you know it, the three-pillar pension system works and works very well. Moreover, the Czech Republic had recommendations for the introduction of a second pillar from the World Bank and other prestigious institutions. It's a shame they didn't think about it and that it's just a loosely and thoughtlessly fulfilling the pre-election vow. I was at the first meeting of the committee led by Professor Potůček, and I thought that there would really be some meaningful solution. That a solution will be sought based on an effective analysis of the current problem. And at that first meeting, the first item was "how do we cancel the second pension pillar" This is no way to treat retirement reform. It is a škoda that Mr Laudát's proposal failed, because the only sensible solution is to return to serious debate and not play with the pension system as a political instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u33	That was Mr. Beznoska. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, now with a factual remark. Then Mr Laudát also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u34	Thank you. Excuse me, please, it's not entirely relevant, but it's for the exact interpretation of the past. Mr Beznoska said that, unlike me, he believes that the system should have been mandatory. It's a misunderstanding. We were the last on the Coalition Council and in the entire House who tried to keep mandatory entry into the second pillar. And I said I blame myself for making that concession, and since we've already done it, we should at least insist on an active dissent speech, not an active entry speech. It's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u35	Thank you. Now, Mr Laudát's point of fact and then Mr Kučera in a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u36	Thank you for the floor. Oh, my God. I'm not gonna talk that long. Surprisingly, I will stand up for Mr Plzák because he is absolutely right. Who will believe in pensions today, after the abolition of the second pillar and other steps and irresponsible economic policy? Well, of course it's better if he gets something. I'm just warning him to run away with it before they take it away from him. I have to stand up for him, as Mr Plzák says, so I agree with that statement, or with the transfer of that statement on the material level, that there will simply be no certainty. And indeed, I call you again - you rejected the proposal. After all, it's normal to do such a crucial thing, but first I'm going to start by having a clear idea and an economic model, how I'm going to put it. If he comes up with any genius ideas, I'll be the first to support him, because this could be a decisive political burden. Look in Greece. There during the crisis, not that pensions froze or ridiculous amounts were added. That's where pensions were collected. That's where they got short, folks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u37	Thank you. Now, Mr. MP... All right, one more point in fact from Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u38	I am very sorry, but I would like to add some surprising information to Mr Laudát, particularly for the ANO movement, which was presented by the fact that he does not want to increase taxes in any way. Let us now leave aside the fact that the abolition of the single collection point law has effectively increased taxes according to the legal condition. However, the amount of compulsory contributions is determined by the so-called the tax quota lodged. Funds investigated in the second pillar, although compulsory, shall not be included in the compulsory tax quota. By revoking the second pillar, you increased your tax quota and increased your taxation. That is an objective fact according to international standards, however I understand that some of you do not like international standards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u39	Thank you. Mr Michal Kučera, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u40	Hello. Thank you for the floor. The advantage of the last one is that almost everything has been said. Maybe I'll just say a few numbers and, to start with, the pension system should be one of the most stable pillars of civil society. By means of it, people in the pension receive the means of old age and young people, on the contrary, the knowledge of how they will be cared for when they are in retirement age. If something needs a pension system, it needs to be trustworthy and needs long-term and sustainable stability. The fulfilment of the pre-election promise of social democracy with the help of the ANO movement can have far-reaching consequences. People will lose any confidence in any stability. The system that is supposed to last for decades will be shut down here in the blink of an eye without telling us what to do next. How will any other government be able to convince that their decisions will last another electoral cycle? What happens after the next election? We really can only assume that. Now you're interrupting something without saying what's going to happen tomorrow. I'd like to say a few numbers here. Here we have been discussing how much money is being spent, although the word, as the President of the TOP 09 Member Mr Kalousek has rightly said, is absolutely misguided, because it is rather strengthened. In 2013, here I will quote from some numbers, in 2013 CZK 373 billion was paid to pensions. Of which 300 billion were paid as an old-age pension. At the same time, pension contributions amounted to 323 billion. This led to a pension account deficit of almost 50 billion. The second pillar has little to do with this amount. Blaming the deficit is really pointless. In 2013, pension companies accumulated approximately CZK 440 million, so there is some CZK 260 million per state, which is a little over 5 million deficit and approximately 0.8 million pension income. We're talking about this money. That's the money my colleagues are talking about being taken out of the pension system. In 2013, 0.8 promile income pension account. Ladies and gentlemen, what will lead to the abolition of the second pillar. In particular, it will lead to the destruction of the fund system. It calls for distrust in the pension system and ultimately robs the younger and active generation in particular of the chance to secure funds for dignified old age. This will be the result of the decision of the coalition YES, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u41	I thank Mr Kučer. Now, Mr Jan Volný and then Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u42	Good evening, Mr President, colleagues, let me -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u43	I'd like some peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u44	Allow me to ask this honourable House for the possibility of shortening the hearing of this law in committees for 20 days. If this proposal is not accepted and will be vetoed, then I beg you to shorten it to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u45	Okay. Now Mr Votava's point of fact, then Mr Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u46	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, only to the speaker. Well, we're interrupting something that's of great interest. Indeed, there are endless queues in front of pension funds. I'm sure the 80,000 contracts that have been concluded testify to this, the enormous interest, across from the contracts that are concluded in the third pillar, and which is also supported by the state. There's, like, 4 million of those contracts. I think people expressed their confidence in this system, which is your child, in the very entry of those 80,000 people who somehow allowed themselves to be persuaded by those funds. So we're canceling something that doesn't make any sense at all. And what my colleague Kalousek said was that we raised one condition after another when the second pillar was discussed is not true at all. We didn't raise any conditions because we didn't agree to the second pillar as nonsense from the start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u47	Thank you, now another factual comment by Mr Beznoska, then by Mr Kučera, then by Mr Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u48	Thank you for the floor. I only very briefly for Mr Votava. Well, that's exactly what I was talking about in my performance. This huge public massage that you're going to cancel the second pillar after you join the government. I think that says a lot. But I'm learning a lot of things here, or why we're canceling the second pillar, or not why, but that we're canceling the second pillar, and I missed it in the debate, and I'd ask someone from the government coalition, which I would love if he said how you want to make the third pillar more attractive, what the next steps are to make the pension system sustainable in the long term. One part of the debate is that you say "we cancel," and you don't say what to do next. Well, I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance, for example, what he has in mind. And the comment on Mr Volný, the shortening, without really clarifying, is arrogance, it is not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u49	Thank you. Now, Mr Kučera with a point of fact, Mr Marek Benda will be prepared and then Mr Kalousek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u50	Thank you for the floor, I will only respond briefly to the speech of my previous speaker, Mr Votava. It was you, members of the ČSSD, who brought distrust into the pension system, that did not trust our citizens in trusting that pensions would provide them with a dignified old age. If you ask any young man today how he'll be provided for old age, if he thinks about it, he'll say, "I'll never have a pension." And it is because of your comments, honourable Members of the Left, honourable Members of the ČSSD and KSČM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u51	I'd like some peace. If you wish to speak, it is through the President. Now, Mr Benda, then Mr Miroslav Kalousek and further signing up for the general debate, but with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u52	Hello, I'm just going to say that we are vetoing the reduction of the deadline under 30 days on behalf of ODS and TOP 09. That's the first point. So your 20-day proposal is not voteable. A second point I would have made after all. In a situation where we are discussing an amendment to the Pension Savings Act and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is not present, I find it rather spicy. Once again, the government coalition is asked about 50 questions about what will happen to the pension pillars for the future, the only ones who are sometimes able to perform are members of the government coalition, and the government is once again silent as a dead fish. I wonder what we have such a government for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u53	Thank you, even for keeping time. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then Mr Votava, with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u54	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to do a performance by a colleague of Mr. Votava. Please, let's not talk about the third pillar and its attraction, let's not confuse the fact that you have no alternative to pension reform under compulsory insurance. Pension funds under the so-called "Pension Funds" The third pillar is a product comparable to capital insurance or any other savings to which we voluntarily save our funds, whether with or without State aid. It is comparable to building savings, unfortunately it is also with state support. These are simply products on the financial market, where we will voluntarily save our own funds from our own decisions. The second pillar is a mandatory contribution. The second pillar is the mandatory contribution within the mandatory 28 percent of the price of our work. You're canceling it, and you're making 28 percent of it fully egalitarian again. That means you're not doing any reform at all. You're just returning it back to that system, about which the NKÚ, even the NKÚ after 20 years, says a lot of other people, and the NKÚ says what we all know that the system is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u55	Now, Mr Votava, then Mr Sklenák, also in factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u56	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Well, it's mandatory saving in the second pillar when this guy walks into it. But then he doesn't have a chance to get out! So maybe it's about trusting these people when they step in, they pay for it, and in 30, 35 years - do they know if they're going to meet the means or not? Plus, the fund isn't guaranteed by the state. This is about the trust you lost.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u57	Thank you. Now, Mr Sklenák, also on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u58	Thank you for the floor. I would take the liberty of responding to Mr Kučera, who spoke of the fact that Members or social democracy had brought mistrust of the pension system. I think he cannot be serious because it is obvious that the citizens of this country have confidence in the pension system and are responsible. Let me just remind you that there are 4.6 million citizens in the third pillar, which are almost all economically active people in this country. So people realize what awaits them for old age, they're responsible and they're trying to save. The second thing is that the second pillar that was introduced was truly unattractive to citizens. It makes no sense for them to have savings in the third pillar to base practically the same savings in the second pillar. And if Mr Kalousek here is saying that the system is unsustainable, then of course we all realize that. But if there was a prognosis in the second pillar that millions of people would be in it, what would be the blackout in the ongoing system, how many tens of billions would we be missing today? So the situation would get even worse economically. So the second pillar really doesn't make sense, it doesn't bring anything to people, it's not interested in them, and it's a blind road. The sooner we cancel it, the better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u59	Thank you. Now another factual point by Mr Kalousek and then by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u60	Thank you. I, through Mr President, respect your opinion, Mr Sklenák, that the second pillar is a dead end. You can be convinced, I'm not taking it from you. But then I would understand that when you're disturbing him, you're saying what you're saying instead. Because you're putting it back into that unsustainable system. And you're not saying that. Within the 28 percent compulsory insurance, you do not offer any solution. Don't say the third pillar, it's private savings, it's like any other savings. Within the framework of compulsory insurance which you offer a solution other than the first ongoing pillar, unsustainable, as your former Member, President Kala, says. Unsustainable, you offer nothing but a return to an unsustainable system. [[16.40 hours]] And the trust. Of course, there is, albeit small, risk, but there is simply that funds in pension funds will somehow be stolen or degraded. There is no product, neither in the third pillar nor in any other financial product, 100% without risk. But there is one hundred percent certainty that if you continue to pursue this policy on an unsustainable system, there will be no state pensions in 35 years. How can you be sure that we'll be paying money off the ongoing pillar if we know for ourselves that the system is unsustainable?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u61	Now Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then Mr František Laudát and then Mr Roman Sklenák. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u62	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear colleagues, the pension system is unsustainable mainly because the number of payers is falling into the system. And the road isn't in the second pillar because it's still draining some of the money that would normally go into funding in the second pillar in the ongoing system. But the road is in support of families with children, because only children, enough children can solve the problems of the pension system. And here's the way to solve the pension problem. It is not in the second pillar that is draining money for contributions from the interim system and, as a result, it would cause less money to be paid in the interim system. That's just what I wanted to say here about this debate. It is important to support families with children and I believe that this problem will finally be addressed in the debate on the form of a pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u63	I thank Mr Hovorka. Now, Mr Laudát. After that, the MP... No, he doesn't want to talk, okay. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u64	Thank you. To President Votav - either you don't know or you're lying. Because I really experienced it on my own in 2007 to 2010, you didn't want to make a deal, and gradually you basically flowed away from the fact that there really is a need to do a pension system based on standard models, when you actually united on the fact that it's probably best just to keep it going, like I always and permanently, I've already said, wanted, and want the communists. As far as Mr. Hovorka is concerned, that is exactly the certainty you are ordaining this country. You're promising a bear here or a bear's skin that doesn't exist. He doesn't just run in the woods, he doesn't even exist. If you really listen to that civilization tragedist who's supposed to tell you what's next and how the old Egypt is gone, then if you can count on them to generate the kind of capital that only fed the pyramids and built the pyramids, and that's all there is to it, so the empire has ended, in my view, in modern history, it will be that way, and you go the exact way that you generate such social costs, and especially in this part, that means the pension system, that the economy will no longer generate funding for it. I'd just like to remind you that even though you've dehonested, dehonested - that's really - they've dehonested the other pension system during its creation, that's why 600,000 people haven't logged in, but 81,000. Even if it's nothing to you, for me 81,000 people - I'll add functional -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u65	Mr. Ambassador, once again, the time has ended for you to make a point of fact. [[Mr. Laudat: I'll come forward one more time.]] Please don't make any de facto remarks. Thank you. Now, Mr Kalousek, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u66	It is truly striking how some myths are hardened over and over again, regardless of objective reality. No offense to the support of families with children. But through the President, Mr Hovorka, can you explain, if not to all of us, at least to ourselves, how is it that one of the poorest countries in the world of Niger has one of the greatest birth rates - seven children per mother? How is it that, on the contrary, the richest countries, among which the Czech Republic belongs, have difficulties with natality and demographic development? Are you really convinced that a few hundred crowns a month, or for me a few thousand crowns a month, will the natality change the positive impact on the pension account? That's not true. Objective facts from around the world tell us that the problem is somewhere completely different than in a relative or objective or subjective sense of poverty. Otherwise, it would just be the other way around in the world. That, believe it or not, would show up on Natalie and it would be much cheaper, such a nice few days of energy black out, or the promotion of smoking, which, with increased mortality on the pension account, would also show in some positive way. Not that I'm suggesting one or the other. But it would be really effective. What you're saying is nice. Again, I have nothing against support for families with children within a coherent society, but it will do nothing about natality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u67	I thank Mr Kalousek for his time. Now, once again, Mr Laudát's point of fact, then Mr Hovorka's point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u68	Thank you. I'm still with the Social Democrats. You're really getting into the wheel, the cycle of your own lies. I know no one wants to remember this anymore, but do you happen to remember, friends of the orange rose, that when discussed here, the model of pension reform was thought out, that VAT had also been raised, that calculations and calculations were quite openly, what would be the cost of pension reform? That VAT has increased to just be the finance to uncover the deficit in the ongoing system? Have you forgotten that already? I didn't ask any more of you here, and the people starting with the Social Democrats are ending, including the so-called Social Right of the ANO movement, so I want nothing more than for you to get it to the same level of discussion. And if you're taking any steps here, put the money next to it. You will have to admit: Dear citizens, you will be five percent more in taxes on your salaries with uncertain results, if in twenty-thirty years, depending on age, any pension will still remain on you. That's the real reality. And then we're listening to all this bullshit that you're counting on the birth rate to rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u69	Mr Ludvík Hovorka and then Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u70	Yes, thank you for your word. Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, children are actually the most born in the poor countries of the world, in poor regions, and in the richer they are born less. This is also the cause of Europe's extinction. But I was talking about the merit of the system. This means that families who have children and who behave responsibly, that is, bring to the system of future payers, and that is why they are eligible for support. If this is also taken into account in the ongoing pension system, I think it can help solve the problem much better than the system that was designed in the second pillar. And that was the essence of what I wanted to say here. This means really supporting the fact that those who care have children, the future payers to the pension system, the most help to solve the pension system, the future problems of the pension system. That is what I wanted to say here, and that is basically what should be in the future reform plan that is being prepared. This is crucial - to have the merit of families with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u71	Thank you and now Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš in proper application. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that this debate has actually been going on since 2009 and that it would have been set up by x committee and x solution. I think the solution is relatively simple. Either we have the pension money, or we don't have the pension money. [[Great response in the right side of the hall, stormy applause TOP 09.]] [[16.50 hours]] So as we can actually do x committees and we can come up with pillars. The third pillar is 4.6 miles. insured people and cost us 7 billion. crowns a year. The second pillar, the 80,000 that ran 2013-2014, costs us 1.5 billion. And the deficits were: 2009 minus 36 billion, 2010 minus 35 billion, 2011 minus 45 billion, 2012 minus 26 billion. and 2013 minus 29 billion. So I'm good for all the committees. And I think if we have more kids, that's great. . [[Laughter from the right.]] But I doubt very much that someone will solve this deficit. So I think we should tell each other the truth now that no committee can solve this. [[Laughter from the right.]] So let's do the committee, you can perform here for another ten years. But one plus one is two, and it's simple, if we finally get the financial administration in order and solve the carousels... laugh... [[A great laugh from the right, even Vice-President Babiš and some Members across the hall are laughing.]] Great! Excellent! So I'm going to deal with the carousels on January 27th, that is. Tuesday, at the Ecofin meeting with Commissioner Moskovici. [[with emphasis, laughter in the hall]] And I can assure you that most of the Member States of the European Union are not laughing at all. Because 177 billion. The euro for the European Union, which has no money, is more than that budget. And according to Eurostat, we are being robbed of VAT annually by organized crime here 3.2 billion, i.e. 108 billion. Czech crowns, we'd be in surplus by then. So keep laughing, I'm laughing too. So why don't you do the committee, and you can talk here for another ten hours? And you're still not gonna solve those pensions because there's either money or there's no money. [[Laughs especially from the right.]] So it's very simple. And I wish you luck - for the next 20 years here to talk about pensions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u73	Thank you. Now I have factual points. I'm only asking my colleague Bendl whether he had a factual or a proper one. Proper. Okay. So now Mr Martin Novotný with a factual remark and Mr Kalousek also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to ask if I have understood correctly that the Minister of Finance wanted to tell us that he is not afraid that he has earned money. [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] And the rest of them have to sit on those committees and make it up somehow. Because I didn't find any other idea in the show.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u75	Okay. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u76	One question and one comment. Mr. Hovorka here outlined a pretty godly goal to reward those future payers for the system. I wanted to ask him how he wanted to distinguish them from those tutors of the future recipients of social benefits, who will burden the system and which are not enough. This distinction is a fundamental unresolved problem and, in my opinion, unsolvable - this otherwise quite godly goal. Well, what about Minister Babiš? He just didn't fail. Whatever the subject, it's still the same. We'll just give the crooks to Kobre so that the udios don't have to suffer through the carousels... [[Laughter from the right.]] This isn't really gonna be solved by any committee. I agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual point by Mr Laudát, then a proper application by Mr Bendl, unless again someone decides to make use of the factual remark. Please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u78	Thank you. There'll be money, there'll be pensions, there'll be no money... It's also familiar - if it doesn't rain, we won't get wet. That's about the same level. You have now noted, and even one member of the ANO movement called me horrified yesterday - I don't know, I'm going to be wrong a little bit in those figures - that about 8 million people essentially control 95 percent of the assets of the remaining 7 billion citizens. So, of course, I answered: Well, one more way is to take the property of those 8 million people. Which, in the case of the Czech Republic, we can help each other out for a little while, too, with the big players. This is also one of the solutions. But, you know, the problem is, it's getting a little messy in some comedy, but it's really not funny. Because if anything destabilizes the Czech Republic and, in fact, all countries, it is precisely a question of mastering that country's ability to generate funds and ensure a dignified old age for its pensioners. So it really is the most crucial thing. Because when it happens at some point in time that there's nowhere to touch, creditors don't lend any more money, it's for the collapse, and then it can end. In Greece, the system has not even collapsed absolutely, but it will also collect pensions according to my view, that is one of the key moments why the Communist Party will probably win there, before which the Communists are afraid. So then it's got this huge turbulence. I understand that one footman here will propose a shortening of the deadline, and then the petitioner will leave. I know he made some new year's commitment not to respond to me. But no matter what he does. Don't lie about pushing the Republic maybe in the medium term into huge problems with your behavior. Really huge problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u79	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. I will try to calm the situation, even if I have one more factual point. But before Mr Volný comes forward with a factual remark, I will state the apologies of Minister Jurečka and Minister Chovanec from 16.45 until the end of the day of the hearing. A factual point, Mr Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u80	I'd just like to underline what our chairman said. He said it that way, but it's basically true. Either this state is going to manage well, it's going to be projected to be surplus, it's going to have money and it's going to have money for pensions, or it's going to be miserable and it's not going to have it for pensions. If we manage like in Switzerland, our pensioners will get a free lunch besides retirement. It's a common thing there. That means it was an exaggeration, but it's true. Either we do well or we don't, and then any reform is basically useless, because we won't have the money for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u81	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Bendl has decided that he would rather use the factual remark to get to the floor and, after that, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u82	Thank you for the floor. Among other things, because I don't want to be long anymore. I feel that in vain the opposition's efforts to provoke a government coalition when one matter or one principle, which in the future would have a chance to provide at least some pensions for those who reach retirement age in the future, cancels, so that they can say what else instead. We didn't find out in the campaign. In the campaign, all we heard was that the second pillar was shame and that it needed to be abolished, and there was no solution. Now we are in a situation where a solution will need to be put on the table, and if it is to be long-term, it is necessary to act across the political spectrum if we want the system to be sustainable somehow. I don't see that in here. I feel like we're starting to make too much fun of this, even though it's a very serious matter. I would very much like to ask through Mr President whether Mr Hovorka really meant it - because it was the only systemic step from my point of view when he said that we should thank all those who have a lot of children or families with a lot of children, because that is the certainty in the future for someone to pay those taxes. [[with a smile]] I don't think that's how it is. That we should rather support those families who think about the future and act economically so as to think that they are able to support themselves and their own children. Perhaps we should - one more comment - build a system so that children too may be forced to think about their old parents. I have always preferred something like the principle when when someone pays alimony to their child, to put it simply, an older person takes care of his children, that children should also have a certain obligation to their parents if they do not care about them and only put them in a retirement home.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u83	I thank Mr Bendl. I have Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek's priority right here, but I have four factual points. Your colleague Benešík with the facts, or...? In fact, then in fifth. That's for real notes. Mr Laudát, once again, on a factual point. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u84	Thank you. Towards Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u85	I'm going to interrupt you and I'm asking the House for peace, both on the left and on the right, including the center, because there's really nothing to hear here, and I don't know how the stenographers can record it at all in the noise. Please, really, really calm down. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u86	Mr. Volný has left, but it's a shame, but it's okay. In any country in the world, the public sector did not create such values as to prosper the country. Not even in Scandinavian. Making an effective government, a solid environment, is the role of the state, but in any country in the world, these values are not created by the state. The state redistributes what it chooses. And first you have to create those values downstairs. You're starting to drown in the illusion that you're going to suppress, restrict the private sector, its environment, it's making the parameters of the environment worse, or you're going to do it, so you're not just not going to secure the resources, you're even going to make the situation my guess, and you're not going to agree with me, of course, you're going to make it worse. No country in the world. And read every economic book that Marx and Engels didn't write. You can read it there, how the world works, how it spins. So please don't. I just don't believe in any promises that fly in the air, but it would be ridiculous if you didn't gamble with ten million citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u87	Thank you, this time and for keeping time. Mr. Jaroslav Holík, Mr. Josef Hájek, then Mr. Ludvík Hovorka and then Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening, I must say. From the right part of the political spectrum, I still hear one thing: suggest an alternative. Don't be mad at me, I've been saving in the third pillar for about 15 years, the moment this savings were created, I entered it. A few years ago, a second pillar appeared, and don't be mad at me, he didn't address me, so I'm going to promote the third pillar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u89	Thank you. Mr Hájek will now prepare Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u90	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, interesting discussion. I have only recorded an energetic performance by my colleague Kučera during the discussion, and here in the intermediate room I asked him whether he was a member or whether he joined the second pillar. And he told me he wasn't, so that kind of surprised me. If I were to ride for something, I would enter it or work for it, but I don't think that concerns my colleague Kučera. My performance concerns, he wants to touch his colleague Hovorka. I think it's one of the ways. Because for example. my son-in-law works at a French company with French colleagues and in France it is perfectly natural that people have tax relief. It is the more children, the more relief for education etc. This means most of the French middle class families and the higher ones have four or more children to give education to. It is precisely because they have lower taxes that they can give much more resources for education, i.e. create conditions for these people to safeguard future prosperity, in this case France. Second thing. What children can do, i.e. the matter of children, and in this context I can think of a possibility, and perhaps this has been discussed in the previous Chamber of Deputies, is the direction of taxes. This means why not dwell on the idea that e.g. One percent of a worker's taxes can be paid directly to his parents? That's one of the ways, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u91	Thank you. Now Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then Mr Kučera, then Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u92	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, by your means to Mr Bendl and to Mr Kalousek. I wasn't talking about promoting extreme birth rates, promoting inadaptable, virtually. a very good system of adaptable people. I was talking about support for families who care about getting enough payers into the pension system, i.e. families who properly raise their children. And it has to be said here that a family that decides to have more children - three four - so basically they have to accept that it has just a lower standard because they have to put aside some of the funds for the benefit of the children. That's right. And this is just a settlement of a certain injustice that is now, i.e. that families who are needed with only one child or without children simply draw more from the system and do not care about the system having enough payers. This is what I wanted to point out clearly here that without this, without supporting the family without supporting the responsible family and addressing its reduction in contributions to the system, there really cannot be a solution to the problem or pension, and let's say in the long run, nor to the sustainability of health financing. So much for explaining it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u93	Thank you. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u94	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond here to the words of my previous speaker, Mr Hájek. I'm really not in the second pillar. And I'll explain why. When I was talking to my financial advisor that I was interested in entering the second pillar, he said to me, "Don't enter the second pillar. I advise all my clients that way, because at that time the MP, Prime Minister today, Sobotka declared that the second pillar would be abolished after the rise of social democracy to power. It is a clear mistrust of the pension system and the second pillar. That is why the second pillar was not successful, because since its creation of social democracy and today the YES movement has said since its programming declaration that the second pension pillar will be disrupted. That means the insecurities among the people have been raised. And even the financial sector took over, and the financial advisors said, "Do not enter the second pillar because it will be abolished." Thanks or because social democracy and the YES movement have already distrusted this system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u95	Now, Mr Pavel Blažek, Mr Laudát will be prepared once more. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u96	Thank you for the floor. Also in response to Mr Hájek. The logic you said in response to Mr Kučera, through you. [[Turns to the President]] It would actually mean that, and now I'm sorry to use the example from your original profession. If I voted in favour of the upper law, it would mean I have to go to the mine, in your logic. That doesn't mean when we pass a law here that we have to use what we approve here. We approve opportunities for citizens of this country to e.g. Worked in mining or to e.g. used or not used this so called. Second pillar. But let's not make the logic that what we're voting here, we have to do, too, because I would, for example, when I said the upper law, do not wish for mine or mine or mine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u97	I thank Mr Blažek. Now, Mr Laudát, on a point of fact. I draw attention to § 60 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure Act, that if this is not a factual remark, I will withdraw the floor for you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u98	Then you'll break the customs again. I'm just talking to my colleague Hovorka. Nobody's talked harshly about any disfellowshipped groups. The fact is that Prague Spring's idealist writer Procházka said in his book that some people would pay off to retire before the so-called. working, that's when I was 15. That's the thing. [[17.10 hours]] I feel like I'm listening to the debate here that some of you don't know what you're gonna be interfering with. What was the second pillar of motivation anyway? Citizens pay some taxes. It is up to their free decision that they will pay 3% less if they add some of their own. Let them try to make more and better sure of their old age. That's the principle. I feel like I'm hearing some discussions here that this key point is leaking. And the third pillar is about something completely different. That's a purely private relationship between a citizen. If you're gonna infiltrate him now, it could end in a pretty mess. Besides, you haven't even said how yet. I feel like you want to shut down the highway so people stop driving cars and ride a railroad that isn't built yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u99	Now Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Then Mr Benešík in proper applications. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u100	Mr President, colleagues, I think it is not entirely true what has been said here. I understand that there was also a petition signed by many thousands of people under the distinctive powers of the then governmental parties, I think it was over 10,000 who commented on pension reform, which also referred to the fact that there was an alternative to what the then government had prepared. Our draft pension reform has been hanging on our website since 2011. In case anyone hasn't noticed, don't say there's no such alternative. The alternative is really more. They've been discussed. You had your own. So it's not true there isn't one. What's on the agenda right now, you've admitted yourself that the second pillar is untrustworthy that you're not applying for it. At the time of our adoption, we have made a very simple survey of how many people, how many Members and, I think, senators from the then government coalition entered the second pillar. It was very sad. He was not even trusted by his own MPs and senators. That's also evidence of something. This means that in this sense we are clearly talking about the fact that it is now being prepared - and Potůčkův's commission has its first results - there are a lot of things that have been accepted in our draft pension reform. As to the fact that we should all have nine or ten children. Please, that's not true either. The problem is that this society really needs more for a healthy demographic profile of children, but if I have to say it very simply, we need those who have one child to have two, and those who have two, to have three. And not all developed countries - colleague Kalousek is no longer here - have few children. We are talking about the need for at least two children for a fertile woman, and please, at least two developed countries within the European Union meet this, even if we subtract immigrants from non-European countries and their descendants who have a higher birth rate in general. The principle means that it is not true that we need to reward those who have many children. Another thing that we have taken into account is the merit that my colleague Hovorka spoke of. If there's a situation where a woman who has three, four, but even five children and the state says to her, "You've been hanging out with children at home, you haven't worked enough years, we'll give you three and a half thousand pensions." But it is her children who go to work who pay their pension not only to their parents but also to those who have no children. It's nothing against those who don't have children. Some people just don't want them, some people can't have them. But those who have children must invest their time and, of course, money in them. Since it is certainly not the right approach to bribe someone for having children, it is necessary to consider whether or not children go to work. That is precisely why we are, perhaps, supporters of not other birth grants and other allowances, but tax reductions for working parents. It is also within the framework of pension reform. We suggested that children be allowed to pay their salaries, so that you take into account whether children work, give part of their social security to their parents, thereby increasing their pension. That means there's more of these things. But it really seems to me that you didn't even worry that there are alternatives, that there is some demographic profile of society, that a million children have been born less than the real need in the last 20 years. The last thing I want to say is that the thing is really serious. And making it a cabaret on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies is very, very irresponsible, in my opinion, because pension reform is really needed. We just don't think what you suggested went well. And as for the second pillar, it works in many countries. See how many countries it was cancelled in, how many countries it had been out of, how many countries it really failed in. And there are a lot of them - even in Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u101	Thank you. Now, my colleague Benešík, so far the last duly entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u102	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to be too personal, but for margo families with more children. I'm five kids. We all have one mother and one father who's been married for a long time. They were able to raise us, and I think they were able to raise us all well. We've never lived on welfare. I have only three children - so far - so I am not a big premier in this regard, but I have friends and relatives in my neighborhood who have five children at my age and can support them with their work. Of course, they're welcome if they get a little light. I just want to say that we're talking about these families. Such families are, families have a lot of children, and they can actually feed them. If we come out of this greenhouse, we will really find such families. Those KDU-ČSLs are talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u103	Thank you, Mr Benešík. Mr Michal Kučera's point of fact. Then priority rights - Mr Laudát and Mr Okamura's replacement priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u104	Thank you for the floor. I listened with interest to the motion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u105	I'll prolong your time. I ask the House once again for peace! You really can't hear anything in here. And it concerns all parts of the Chamber of Deputies, including government benches. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u106	Thanks again for the word. I listened with interest to the proposal for a pension reform from the KDU-ČSL pen, which according to Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek is named two children for one fertile woman, as he said here. I'm only in favour of supporting families with children. However, we are talking about pension reform here. I want to ask how couples who can't have children or who have one child will be dealt with, and it's their free will. That's not what you're saying here. What was said here from the mouth of KDU-ČSL representatives is called social engineering. On the note that Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek said about the cabaret. The cabaret here is made by your colleague, Minister of Finance Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u107	I thank Mr Kučer for keeping the time to make a point of fact. With a factual remark, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Then the priority rights I've announced. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not here to tell you our whole concept. I completely deny that our plan is two children for a fertile woman. You're totally maiming it. Please read it. I know you weren't worth it all the time, through Mr President, Mr colleague, I understand that you didn't care, but read it. I'm not going to explain it to you because I think anyone who's literate can read it. The second thing, which is quite clear. If you're talking about someone else doing the cabaret. I know it! You don't have to explain it to me. I didn't talk about you or anyone like that either. So read it. And besides, I repeat, Potůčkův's commission, you can go there too, and if you don't have information from here, it's not my problem that you don't go there, there's a lot of work to do. Read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u109	Thank you. Now Mr Tomio Okamura has changed his application to a factual one, then Mr Michal Kučera has also made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond briefly. Well, what Vice-President Bělobrádek said here on behalf of the government, I may have heard wrong - so that those with two children would have three. I already told you six months ago that if we don't have 2.14 babies on our mother, we're gonna die. And six months ago, I told the government to finally present a strategy to increase birth rate and support young families with children in the Czech Republic. All we hear is talk. There is no strategy here, as well as a strategy to address unemployment in the Czech Republic. We still have over half a million unemployed here. And when there was an amendment to the Dawn to receive birth benefits, we wanted to discuss the deductible items for working parents as well as for third and other children, but for birthers on condition of working history and integrity, in order to support the proper ones and not support the parasites, you voted against! That means we're hearing some talk here, and the highlight was the performance by Prime Minister Sobotka on Sunday, when he actually confirmed your strategy. That we need immigrants because we're dying. And then the government showed what -- that they were Muslims, from Muslim countries. Originally it was supposed to be 15 sick children, soon it became 55 relatives, I don't know why. This means, this is your strategy to increase birth rate in the Czech Republic, respectively. the demographic increase of citizens of the Czech Republic. And you didn't really design anything for, absolutely nothing to make parents in the Czech Republic have three or more children. Respectfully over 2.14. Nothing. Just talk. Why didn't you design it? It's just false proclamations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u111	Thank you, Mr Tomio Okamur, for keeping time on the point of fact. One more point in fact by Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u112	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond here to my previous speaker, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, who addressed me. You know, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I don't really care what you have written on your party website. You are now a member of the government, and I am interested in what you, as a member of the government, have submitted to the House as an amendment to the law. And you didn't bring anything here. Nothing, nothing. You're jamming the second pension pillar and you haven't submitted anything. You're referring to some committee - Minister Babiš is mocking the committee. Your work is completely inconvenient. You're jamming the second pension pillar, and yet you have no other solution. You refer to your website, your party website, that you have some description of the pension reform, and Minister Babiš mocks all the commissions and says we should take care of ourselves as we see fit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u113	Thank you. The rapporteur with priority rights. Then, Mr Laudát with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u114	I don't want to prolong the debate too much, but I just want two sentences. From what I hear here in a lot of shows, actually, there's a summary for me. You're all saying that because of demographic ageing, we don't have the means to finance an ongoing pension system, and you're also saying, "Don't cancel the second pension pillar, because we regularly take 10 percent of the system out of it every month and every year. And that will stabilize him, the pension pillar? It's not logical at all. I mean, the pension system can't work like that at all, and it's definitely not going to be stable. It needs to be done, my friends, really, really. And think about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u115	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before Mr Laudát's speech, I will state an apology that has come from Mr Kudela since 17.30. Mr František Laudát, acting President of the TOP 09 Club, is now taking the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u116	Thank you. I think the Minister of Finance has made this very clear. Either he's on his pension or he's not. I totally agree with that. Then the question is, if they're gonna chase the folks through to get someone on their instructions - and you all have to read it on their website, you'll find it there. Just like let them be pieces. You can see here that if he's a successful businessman, he's not only going to give jobs to hundreds, thousands, or tens of thousands of people, but he's also going to generate those profits. To make a living, not only when they're working, but also when they're retired. First of all. I'd basically lean back. If you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Whitebread, think we're doing a cabaret here when you're presenting something - we want to disturb something and the opposition, or at least the TOP 09, I don't want anything else, which is why I've given the procedural proposal than we say, okay, you want to interrupt something. So, given that this is an essential topic for our society and for the stability of this country, so before you start disturbing it, come simultaneously: we have this idea and it is based on the economy so that it will be sustainable. That's all we're asking. That's all we're asking. You, Mr. Whitebread, call this a cabaret? I call it responsibility. And, of course, if someone here says things in such a way that they obviously don't even know the existing legislation, then of course it's logical that someone from the opposition is reacting to it. However, I have to defend myself against the President of the Dawn. On the contrary, we want us to be a dignified country, a confident country, and we offer especially to those who will help our society, and if they are in danger of their lives today, so that we can help them. So we're here to stand up for not only the government, to accept those sick kids with their families and to offer them asylum here, but we even want them to be more. They're Christians, they're people who are more capable than most people here in the House. Cork when I hear what some of you are saying. So we'll do our best. And it was you, Mr Whitebread, your MP, who defended himself against something I did not say here, and we could start discussing it on Friday, for example, so that the government had a strong mandate to make decisions on this matter, and not until some three Sundays. And as for Mr Okamura. Past governments, without any big bulwarks and rackets, accepted refugees. It also bears witness to something. In the early 1990s, there was not such a canderbal and a number of Volyně Čech came here. There was a war, over 3,000 Srb came here. There was another war, there were others and more. They integrated, it was somehow premeditated. Some got better, some got worse. But what you're doing - you're not even able to organize decent remediation and security in Vrbětice. So what can we ask you to do when you're talking about the cabarets and the non-cabarettes, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u117	A point of fact, but electronics take precedence, Mr. Colleague. [[Jandak]] So colleague Fiedler, then colleague Holík and then colleague Jandák. [[Member Jandak from the crowd in front of the benches: I forget the idea!]] Sorry, Mr. Vice Prime Minister is right after Mr. Fiedler and Mr. Holík, because they have electronics and I can't break the Rules of Procedure, even though I saw you, I'm sorry. A colleague of mine, Fiedler, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u118	Good evening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for following such strict rules of procedure. It will come in handy that Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek will be able to respond to my short performance. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you're referring here to some of your material, which is your party material. I would have expected that if you had thought this through so well, there would already be a bill here from your MP or the government. 'Cause that kind of talk in statements and some kind of proclamation isn't gonna solve the problem. This will only solve a specific practical solution to the bill. Well, I suppose you'll be introducing us to this particular proposal of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u119	Thank you. Now, my colleague Holík, then Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I apologize for appearing here again, but I feel that the subject of this point is an amendment to the pension system. I have been greatly lifted up by Mr Laudát's statement, through Mr President, when we are interfering with Vrbětice here. Firstly, Mr Okamura is a Member of the Central Bohemia Region. Secondly, I am the MP, and I have been there eight times, and the problem is solved! So let's not mix apples with pears here. I would like to ask Mr Laudát, through the President, to at least be ashamed. He was ashamed of these people who live there in terrible conditions!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u121	Thank you. Now the Minister and Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek and then Mr Jandák. [[Messenger. I hope I can hold that thought!]] I believe my colleague Jandák will hold the thought. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I'm sorry, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u122	Mr President, you said something about folk policy first, and then you say you don't care what we have on our website! I really don't understand you! And it's typical arrogance that you don't really care what other people think. You don't care! It's a good thing we know. As far as reductions and reductions are concerned for working parents, this has been the case since this year, a reduction in taxes on working parents. As far as the second pillar is concerned, yes, we want to cancel it. And we want to cancel it because neither you nor your Members have entered it, it is untrustworthy, you say it yourself, and we do not want others to enter it. That's what this is all about! About the cabaret. I know, Mr. Laudát, sometimes you can't even be heard, I sometimes didn't really understand you, but the fact that you don't listen to what I'm saying and then you react to it - I clearly said that I didn't mean opposition, so you're looking at something that doesn't make any sense. Well, at least listen when you respond to it! As for the fact that you are not interested in our proposal of KDU-ČSL and that you expect - that is what Potůčkův's commission is for and you have representation on that committee! Yes, we can make a parliamentary proposal here, which will only be for us, but we want it to be a system solution that will be really long-term. That's why you're invited. And I said it here. If you'd listen to me, there's a lot of stuff in there that comes from our proposal. That's why we're preparing a coalition proposal, but we want to pre-negotiate it with you because it's not a matter of hours, weeks, that's a question for a really long time, for generations. That's what this is all about! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u123	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Now, Mr Jandák, then further factual remarks. Mr Vítězslav Jandák on a factual point. I'm taking your time. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand. I don't understand one thing. I like Franta Laudát very much, I have known him for 30 years, but I beg you, František through the President, there has been a democratic election created by some government, most in the Chamber of Deputies, and it has made a decision, the majority, and now it decides so! Why are you upset? You guys did it four or eight years ago! And it was bullshit calling to heaven what you were doing! [[Fun.]] We're fixing it now. Babiš is unhappy, gray of it! [[Laughter and applause.]] And you say, for Christ's sake, you will destroy this country! That's not true! We're trying to do something, this government coalition - not that I'm excited about everything, but we're right to try something, and history will only show whether it was right or wrong. So what are you guys doing, stalling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u125	I thank Mr Jandák for his time. Mr Michal Kučera, then Mr Laudát, Minister Marksová, and then Mr Laudát and Mr Fiedler. But I'm asking for peace! Only the person to whom the President grants it has the floor in the House. I just gave it to Michal Kučer. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u126	Thank you. Too bad there's no Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, he's not often here, he's been here today exceptionally, because he could hear the cabaret here again and see it again from my previous speaker's mouth, but all the honor, it was fine. I would like to answer this question and remind Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek that I do not really read his party website, which does not mean that I do not care about his opinion. I didn't notice his opinion here in the House. As I was saying, it's not often here, so maybe he didn't even have the opportunity to tell us here, and I'd like to point out that he's a member of the government that was supposed to submit an amendment to the Pension Reform Act, she should have told us what to prepare for, what to prepare our children for, what to prepare our partners, our partners, what to prepare ourselves for, and this was not done as vice prime minister of the government. It refers us to a party web and I think that this is completely inadequate from the Prime Minister of the Government - it cancels the second pension pillar and does not provide a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u127	Thank you. Now, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová. Please, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of Parliament, I only have a short entry. I would like to say to the opposition desks: read what is in the coalition treaty and what is in the government statement. It is not there that during 2014, this government promises to present a whole new pension reform. That's not really there, but it says that the first step is to cancel the second pillar because it's simply making money out of the public instead of what the public would support. And the presentation of pension reform measures, where every political party has its own representative or representative, is on the agenda this year, and I cannot imagine a government that would resolve pension reform this way during the first year of its reign. [[She snapped her fingers.]] I think we're a good government, but we're just people, we're not Gods, and we're still following the timetable that's in the two documents I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u129	Thank you, Minister Michaela Marksová. Mr Laudát has the floor on a factual point, and then I, my colleague Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u130	Thank you. I would have told my colleague Slávek Jandák by your means that I am far from getting upset, Corse, when there is such a crucial statement as studying all the KDU-ČSL sites, it is not things that would upset me. I was more upset about their attitude yesterday in the vote on immigration policy, because given how they want to present themselves to the public and then, as they vote, it's something that hit me hard and internally, and I really was furious, I admit it, in the hallway. But not today. We didn't come up with anything but saying you didn't bring anything to the House. I'm not going to investigate what some potůček says on TV or on the radio or where, I don't know, or any printed paper. We're interested in what you're doing here. And I do not want it to end, as when Mr. Prachař devastated the Department of Transport, after which Prime Minister Sobotka said on Czech television that he hoped that Mr.Ťok would finish his work at the Ministry of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u131	I thank you for your time and now, with a point of fact, Vice-President Filip and then Mr Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u132	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief factual point on the course of the debate. I couldn't bring her in another time, but I still have to comment. The current right-wing opposition cries completely on the wrong grave. Let him weep on his grave, because anyone who is in government should know that if he wants to enforce something that is supposed to last a long time, that is, in particular, a pension system, a social system and, at the end of the day, some concept of tax, he must agree at least with part of the opposition in order for a law to apply any longer at all, and that is particularly true of the pension system. Remember, then, how the government of Petr Nečas and Miroslav Kalousek, forgive me, pushed the law on the second pillar in a disgusting way. Then don't be surprised that, of course, all the parliamentary opposition parties wanted to abolish it, but also the non-voting parties. Thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u133	Thank you. And now, Mr Fiedler and after him, Mr Svoboda, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u134	Good evening again. Unfortunately, Vice-President Bělobrádek is no longer here and he has forgotten - or he has not forgotten, he has not been able to answer my call, where there is a bill to deal with it. He was talking about some strategy, some visions, but to my question, where is the draft of the government law or their MP's club, I didn't get the answer, didn't find out, and the Vice Prime Minister isn't here anymore. And the birth certificate and the baby coefficient. It's also our theme of Dawn, but the fact that we're talking about this right now has one major problem that won't solve this thing. It'll take at least 20 to 25 years and I haven't heard how they'd like to deal with the transition period. [[17.40 hours]] We have 600,000 unemployed, on the other hand, paradoxically many industrial enterprises are looking for workers in vain, and we want to address the lack of labour by immigration and by importing workers, which is completely per capita. So some sensible government concept, I'm sorry, colleagues from the government coalition, I'm missing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u135	Thank you. Now, Mr Svoboda with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u136	Thank you. My point in fact concerns a colleague Jandák's performance. I'm always looking forward to him, the beautiful voice, the beautiful performance, the broad gesture, and the very original, very pure, on one side, on the other hand, he can use the folks' lingo. It's just a pleasure to hear it. He really fascinated me today because he explained to me that I was here for nothing. Because he's a pluralistic system of democracy is useless, because there are more of us here, so what do you say to us? We're gonna vote it out, sit here, don't debate it, wait till we vote it out, and then you can go home again. I cannot agree with this principle of work, because for completely different reasons I went to the Chamber of Deputies. But again, I'm looking forward to another performance by my colleague Jandák. I hope he doesn't deny the principle of democracy we're working on here next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u137	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Personally, I have to say that I am not thrilled that we are canceling the second pillar because we are continuing the series of steps that we are revisiting back into the pension system and, of course, we do not support its credibility and credibility of the infrastructure in which people are to be saved. On the other hand, at a time when the system was being prepared, regardless of the criticism that came from the opposition at the time, and it was not a consensual proposal, it is simply obvious, I asked whether there was a Feasibility study on whether the system would receive sufficient support, whether it had modeled, whether it had measured interest, whether anyone had dealt with whether in a country where so many funds were emptied, people would be willing to put money in other funds. Who I asked, so everyone said no, there's no such study. There was no political consensus, there was a gunfight. I wasn't here, but I could see it. The infrastructure that people are supposed to save into is being pushed into force. And it didn't succeed, oddly enough. That's my first point. Now we're all right with it. I might have chosen another path, but I respect the coalition's decision, and it's just one of the options. It is because the experiment didn't work. The second thing that needs to be said and treated. Czech society continues to be among those countries that, however they get into financial distress or know that there will be difficult times in the future, so households will start saving. When you look at the results of the building savings, you see that the will to save, trust in currency, trust in the environment is here. What does not have confidence are the institutions that this House has previously created from the point of view of the pension system. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So we need - yes, I am done - to create institutions together with you where the ability of Czech households to save can be realized. And my last objection to Prime Minister Babiš. We're not gonna have money because we're still shorthanded. We will not have money on the pension system, among other things, because our life expectancy has increased by ten years and our quality of life has increased, and that is what we want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u139	Ambassador, I remind you of your time. In case you want to discuss for a longer time, sign in properly. These are factual points. It's two minutes. I also have three factual points. The first is Mr Benešík, then Mr Klaška and Mr Kalousek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u140	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just about the word shoot-out on the KDU-ČSL website. I have also come to the impression that my colleague Kučera is referring to him - and Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek is already here. I didn't know he'd be coming to the O.R. at this point, or he'd probably be the one to explain it. And that's why we remembered the website to fill in the information, because it felt like you were referring to it. And then there's a series of performances that you don't care what's on the KDU-ČSL website, but at least - maybe I'm not entirely right, I didn't listen 100% - you used the information from there, blamed us or wanted to explain it in some way. That's why we figured it out. One last thing. I know that both topics are very important, and I don't want to make a cabaret out of it, but I think the sentences about the breakdown at the Ministry of Transport at this counter are starting to remind and compare to the sentences about carousel stores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u141	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Klaška and then Mr Kalousek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u142	Thank you. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, Vice-President Bělobrádek has indeed come back. In fact, I wanted to respond to my colleague, Fiedler, through Mr President, about the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister here spoke of a coalition proposal, he spoke here about the position of KDU-ČSL in general, so he basically explained the philosophy here when he spoke about working parents and so on, so that I should not go back to that. I would like to say that we are actually discussing a point that stops the entry of new participants into the second pillar. The discussion was much more rudimentary, so we got to Vrbětice, which I don't think it belongs here at all. However, I was also interested in the second pillar privately once, when I had no idea that I would be a Member. Unfortunately, I had to say with regret that it was unattractive for me, that it would not pay off, and that I would not, therefore, participate. That's my private knowledge. Quite astonishingly, I have noticed that Members or senators of the former coalition, which proposed this second pillar, are not taking part in it either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now request a factual remark from Mr Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u144	Thank you. So I dare to make that factual remark as a participant in the second pillar, which is prepared to defend its legitimate expectations by judicial means. It is a comment concerning the criticism that the first shy half-step to pension reform, which the current parameters of the second pillar are, was pushed through - it was said disgustingly - without political consensus. I have argued for 20 years that ideal - and I think so in my own way - pension reform is one where a political consensus is achieved similar to that of the Service Act, because then it is possible to rely on the system to be at least politically stable and that it will not be the subject of a populist election campaign before any election from any side. Yeah, but that's what we've been saying for 20 years. And for 20 years, this political consensus has not been achieved. I remember Klausův's board on pension reform, led by Václav Klaus as President of the House. We were quite the furthest for Prime Minister Paroubek, although only in light parametric adjustments, but we did get somewhere after all. And when half an hour before the Communists signed, they refused to sign under the agreement, Prime Minister Paroubek blew it, because someone calculated that his participation without communists in this agreement would mean a tide of 3% to 5% of his electorate to the KSČM, and he didn't want to risk it. And on the basis of these considerations, not on the stability of the pension system, but on the basis of what partisans do to their voters and drive them to someone else, on the basis of these considerations, the parties have always made decisions here in the House for 25 years when deciding on pension reform, and therefore I am convinced that we will achieve no result, and the only pension reform -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u145	Your time, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u146	One last sentence, please. The only pension reform you're going to present - except that you've canceled something existing - is what Vice-President Babiš said: It's easy: it's either going to be money or it won't be for pensions. Well, they won't, folks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u147	For the record, I will just repeat that the actual point of fact has two minutes, so I ask you if you want to have a longer contribution, please report to the proper debate. I note another factual point, and Mr Bendl has it. After that, if the debate continues, Mr Pilný is signed up and Mr Zavadil after that. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u148	Thank you for the floor. I would like, through Mr President, to disagree with Mr Kalousek, because I am convinced that there will be an opposition party here that will agree with this government, I will say, with the definition of pension reform. And you can answer for yourself, I'm deliberately looking in that direction, because it's fallen here several times, the offer. [[to the benches of Members of the KSČM]] I mean, one of the biggest advocates here is the supporters of the left spectrum. I think that's where it's headed. Unfortunately, I think Mr Kalousek is wrong. And I want to thank Mr Jandák, who I love. It's my favorite thing in fairy tales. But this fairy tale will not have a good ending, Mr Member through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u149	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read one apology. On this day, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes from 18:00 for business reasons. Another point of fact is made by President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u150	Thank you. I will not join the mutual recognition of the love that is heard here among the Members. I just want to explain to Mr Bendl that this is a misunderstanding. We simply differ in how we understand the concept of the opposition party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u151	Thank you. Another note came to me. From today's meeting between 18 o'clock and the end of the day, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová apologizes for family reasons. Now, therefore, duly signed up for the debate, Mr Pilný, and after that, Mr Zavadil will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u152	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I volunteered because I do not want to abuse the Institute's factual remarks. This item is called "the amendment of the Pension Savings Act'. Vrbětice, migration, situation at the Ministry of Transport have already been discussed. But I'd like to remind you that we're talking about people. Seniors are human and increasing. And what's important is not only that we sometimes decide on something that looks a little like a handout that we throw over the fence, but that they want some quality of life. I cannot agree that we may not have money for reform and for direct payment of pensions and pension security, but we have money for something else. There's European funds, there's state money. These people want to learn, they want to work. And we certainly shouldn't deny them the flats that were introduced or abolished by the previous government, then the Constitutional Court returned them. We should let them work because they're capable and they can work, they can educate. They're looking for some kind of socialization. Some of them can't move, so if we give them, for example, a tax relief on computers or Internet connection and other things - let's talk about them as people. And if we're going to do some pension reform, I'd like it not just to be about money and whether or not we're going to cancel some pillar, but to actually look at them as people and start solving their problem. We have this in many laws in many funds. We should keep this in mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It is now duly registered by Mr Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u154	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Vice-President, Dear Government. Let me make a few comments as a person who's been with those retirement things since the very beginning. I'm sure through you, Mr Vice-President, my colleague Kalousek will confirm that we had passionate debates about the second pillar and that those passionate debates were in the position where I claimed that the second pillar was pointless, and he argued otherwise. I'm not going to discuss this any further. Now we are in a situation where we want to abolish the second pillar, and I believe that this is the right decision. By the way, I'll give you one piece of information you may not know. In December, the OECD Commission on Pensions stated more or less that going the way of those private funds is not a good one - that is the conclusion you can find out, and I would be glad if you find out at least those who are engaged in pension systems - and that it is more of a need to deal with ongoing systems. When under Petr Nečas, I said perhaps a little expressionalistic that only a dork would put money in the second pillar, and what I said gave me more or less the right, because I understand that it would have been ideal then, and that was the conjecture if it had been mandatory to pay for the second pillar. When the possibility of mandatory payment appeared, it appeared around the Internet, on the various websites, about 70,000 clicks - 70,000 clicks when people say "no chance!". That's when Petr Nečas' government stopped a little bit, and she backed away from the mandatory one. I understand that capital funds that would have welcomed it and which, of course, by the system, as it was set up - and now I don't want to argue about how it was set up - in essence, that money was being sucked out of the first pillar, which actually vacuumed out, no matter how we look at it, well, those people finally realized that they wouldn't go into mandatory savings. The choice of optional was the first blow to capital funds. That's what needs to be said. It was because if it was mandatory, it worked today, there weren't those poor 83,000 people. I can debate and discuss whether the fact that someone said before the election that they would cancel, that it had an impact on the fact that those people didn't go there. I can debate that, but I'll never know what the truth is, just like I said, only a dork would put it there because I had it leaned on other facts. At the time we watched very much what was happening in Poland, what was happening in Hungary, what was happening in Slovakia, what were the capital gains of these funds. And I'll tell you that it was trivial, because I can still tell you the numbers that I had from Slovakia in 2013, when returns or rather non-profits, because whether it was a dynamic fund, whether it was another fund, whether it was a conservative fund, no return on the fund. None. None. So speaking of pension systems, I'd like to, and unfortunately, I didn't feel that here, and even if my colleague Jandák brought it up a little bit, he basically told the truth. Gentlemen, what has fallen here, and now I think it was from Vojta Filip - I'm sorry, Vojta, that I say it this way - that the system was approved only by the coalition, regardless of the fact that the opposition had some reservations about it, so I also consider it wrong. And if there are concerns as to how it will continue, if there are words coming from the opposition that the coalition does not yet have any proposals, then I think it has them, that the third pillar that could serve as a pillar to replace the second pillar, and where it is being discussed today - and I assume that it will get to the opposition, I do not want to now advise it to look at the websites, that is not my goal - I believe that the government will finally propose what the third pillar should look like, how the third pillar should actually prevent anything from being sucked out of the first pillar, how it should be involved in the third pillar of employee-employer insurance, because it has all to do with it. So I'd like us to take these things very carefully. And I also hope that we will all get out of the government here, not just coalition MPs, but also you, as he imagines, that the third pillar should look, because I am convinced - and now I don't want to talk about the deficit of that account, because if I were to talk about the deficit of that account, I might be able to sharpen here by the year that Minister of Finance ruled the Minister of Finance, Minister Kočárník, when there was a surplus, when the pension contributions were reduced by one percent, I think, when there was a deficit again. And I could go on like this. These numbers can be quite charming, but that's not a debate on this scene right now. [[18.00 hours]] So all I'm saying is that we're in a situation where this company, like it or not, has refused mandatory savings in the retirement second pillar. She just rejected him verbally. The government didn't have the guts, and I don't think she got the guts right to beat that opinion. So now we're in a situation where if it wasn't like this, then what happened, 83,000, I don't even want to talk about it anymore. In my opinion, it is necessary to remove this pillar and find the rules of the game that would eliminate the effects of the abolition of the second pillar to the clients who are in that second pillar. And then I want to talk about the third pillar and everything that belongs to that third pillar, which should belong there, so that we don't get there, and now I don't want to take the idea that we might have to talk about different steps in the future, which I don't want to set up here right now, so that we don't deepen the deficit. Because the deficit is a warning. That's right. There's the second thing that we have here is 500,000 unemployed, who somehow share the deficit in quotes. We have unbalanced payments in pension insurance between the self-employed and the employees. It's about one third of what the department pays for employees. Straight up. You need to straighten this out, too. Whether you like it or not. Even if they have a little different pension after that. So there's a lot of things to talk about. I just want to finish by saying let's release the novel for second reading. I don't think there's anyone here today in the coalition partnership who would doubt it. I just wanted to suggest a number of things with my performance that maybe many of you don't know about. Because I've been in this process for years, and the arguments we've had on different levels have been beneficial. I didn't give up on them, and maybe it just made things tougher. That's all I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I see a point of fact here, Mr Foldyna. No. You don't have a factual point. At this point, I do not see anybody enrolled in the debate. I wonder if that's the case. Yes. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I question the final words of the appellant or rapporteur whether you want to take the final word. It's not like that. In that case, we will vote on the proposals. I have here a motion from Mr Vilímec to dismiss. I'm registering the check-out request. Then I'll check you out and ask you to come forward. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. We shall vote on the rejection of the proposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of rejecting this proposal. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 25. Members present are 159, for proposal 37, against 122. The motion was not accepted. I also report a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion to 30 days. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of shortening the time limit for discussion to 30 days. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 26, the Members present are 160, in favour of proposal 112, against 35. The application was accepted and the deadline was reduced to 30 days. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion on the commandment. Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u156	Thank you. The pensions have always been discussed on a basal basis in the Social Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u157	On the social committee. Thank you. I wonder if anyone else has another motion for a commandment to the committees. It's not like that. I note a factual remark from Mr Grebeníček. There is no room for factual remarks. [[Mr Grebeníček has an objection to the vote.]] Let's take a vote. [[Laughs in the hall.]] That means you object to the vote. It's best if you tell us what you need on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad you came to this conclusion so I could get some space. I guess I'll just be trusted by the people who know me, that I voted, of course, to reject the rejection. [[Laughs in the hall.]] And there's the opposite result on the junk. I'm not questioning the overall vote, just for the record, to make it clear that I'm principled in these matters. And as the debate said here, we were the only ones against the concept of pension reform -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-010-022.u159	I'd like this not to become a debate. I understand you want to adjust your vote for the tapestry. Thank you for that. We will now continue with the commandments to the committees. First of all, we will vote on the commandment submitted to the Committee on Budgets. Initiating the vote and asking who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets, let him press the button and raise his hand. It is a vote with order number 27, the Members present and the Members present are 162. Proposition 162, against none. Thank you. We will now vote that the proposal tabled should be ordered to discuss the Social Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 28, the Members present are 162, in favour of proposal 63, against 46. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Budgets and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening another point. That's what it is.
