ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u1	42. Government bill amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended /German press 613/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading. If there is an interest in the application of the veto, of course there will be room for that. As much as I dare to guess that the veto will be. But in order to comply with the procedure, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will speak first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. Let me present to you a bill amending Act No. 234/2014., on Civil Service. And let me explain why I'm making this amendment to you here. So it was not long ago that we adopted this rather revolutionary change in the Chamber of Deputies. This change really, as we ourselves observe, those who apply it are really a change of quite principle and fundamental and its application is probably not always happening quite easily. But if it's a particularly big problem somewhere, it's at the State Department, because the State Department, by its nature, is far from the principles on which the Civil Service Act is built. In principle, we have managed to work a large part of things into the Civil Service Act that have been able to capture the specifics of foreign service. However, today I think that it was practically impossible, perhaps even if there was more time to discuss the law, it was impossible to estimate all the things that we would encounter in this implementation. The reason is what I said. The Civil Service Act is based on two principles, on predictability and stabilisation, while the work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is based on change and rotation. The principle of working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that those who are employees are in the Czech Republic for a certain period of time and then a large part of them are broadcast abroad. And it is this change that is actually a principle that the Ministry is working on, and which is even fundamental in the dispute, with the whole spirit and effort of the Civil Service Act to stabilise. So what I'm presenting to you is a purely technical amendment that solves actually a technical problem, how to ensure that these rotations are even possible under the Civil Service Act. And it's not just the rotation of individual employees who are diplomats. They're also family members. And you say, "Okay, that's a family life balance," but there's more to it. It is extremely beneficial for us to employ family members of diplomats who leave. I'm gonna make this very simple for you. If we can't enforce this adjustment, that means a loss of less than 80 miles for us. Crowns. We'll just save 80 miles to employ family members. CZK from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For us, this has specific implications that I can quantify, the possibility of employing family members. [[15.30 hours]] Or another thing. When we are somewhere in Peru, we are interested in employing Czech citizens who live in Peru. This has a wide range of advantages, because the Czech citizen has a relation to the country, there is reduced security risk, there are just a number of factors. And we're supposed to be doing all the selection procedures! Friends, if we make a tender in which it will be known in advance that the winner will be the wife of a diplomat, or in which it will be known in advance that it will be a Czech citizen, it will be illegal. Do you understand? Here we just get into a dispute with the applicable labor code, here we get into a dispute with the Civil Service Act. So I'm telling you, we're really dealing with things at the Foreign Office that no one else in this state is dealing with, and yet we have a huge interest in allowing that job. For example, now in Kiev, I can tell you, we have two cases of family members where we need them to help issue visas, but we cannot employ them precisely because the current system does not allow us to employ family members, yet there is a great pressure to handle the visa issue. And that's only one of the places I name here. In a number of cases, even the impossibility of employing people under the law makes it difficult for us to work properly and, on the other hand, it complicates our investigation through the means that we urgently need. That is why we actually need certain restrictions in the conduct of, for example, tenders. I can tell you that if we were to do the selection procedures in full, it de facto paralyzes the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We need an exception here, but only in a specific case, of course. This does not mean that there will be no selection procedures. These will essentially be done in the vast majority of cases, but where there is a change, or where there is a situation that someone comes to the job of a worker abroad when the rotation occurs, the movement, there are moments when, if we respond quickly, the selection process is basically completely paralyzing. It must be noted that the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have such a character that we are actually responding to crises. You understand, we have crises all around us. We need to move visa workers from one country to another, depending on how the situation develops. This is simply contrary to the principle of stabilization, which is the spirit of the Civil Service Act. On the contrary, we need to respond as quickly as possible. And it's just in the interests of the service we do. That is why the specifics are absolutely exceptional to me, and the current form of the law shows that somewhere it prevents us from doing things that were obvious until now. One of the measures - I do not want to discuss every detail - is the possibility that we propose to send civil servants from the Ministry abroad without his consent, but for a maximum period of one year. The reason we're asking for it here or asking for it is again - I assure you that there is no politics in this, this is a really technical amendment, and the point is that we have a whole range of places that we can't occupy. And they're not even dangerous places, you'd be surprised! To Kabul or some places like Baghdad we manage to find diplomatic... Because let's say there are people who aren't afraid to go to those destinations. That's not really the problem. She's a lot of places, friends, pretty dull as Brusel. But the reason is that there's a lot of work, that someone's looking for a destination where there's not so much work to do. And we have no way of saying no here, we need someone here because we can't order him to. And I assure you that what we want here, as I have verified, is a principle that works in Germany, which works in the United States of America, just for a limited period of time to be able to send employees to such a place where we lack people. That's something we miss immensely. For years, this is a matter that has not been fundamentally addressed, but I would very much welcome the possibility of getting someone there for a limited period of time, as it is currently something that is practically impossible for me under the Civil Service Act. So I repeat, it is an attempt to save money and comply with the principles of rotation and constant change that the foreign service must respond to and where the employees really get into a regime that nowhere else - perhaps the Ministry of Defence might have some other similar type, but otherwise it is something that is very unusual in other ministries. It's normal here. That's why I'm asking you for this technical amendment, and I believe we'll find enough agreement on it in the House. I can only say that this is something that we need immensely, and most importantly I fear that if we fail to enforce it, it will mean the deployment of significantly higher funds, which is something I would very much like to avoid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u3	Thank you and I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u4	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, allow me to follow up with Minister Zaorálek. The bill is relatively economical, which is not always common. The amendment concerns in quotation marks only six paragraphs of the Service Act. I would totally agree that the performance of foreign service is a very specific area. Of course, the debates that took place during the negotiations on the Service Act have taken into account and tried to take these specifics into account, but practice shows that it is necessary to re-enter the law not for the sake of some technocratic, but for purely practical, and for reasons that are justified and consistent with common sense, and I think that the Minister has described them very precisely here. The aim is a few changes which, in my opinion, should not arouse great emotions, and moreover, which is also not usual in all laws, the law should bring savings, not other expenses that would subsequently go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so I also think that it deserves the support of the House. What is announced is that the law is unlikely to be approved in one reading, i.e. in accordance with § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which, in my view, is not entirely wrong, because we can certainly use the time given to us to prepare amendments. And I would just ask that if this institute is used to shorten the deadline to the maximum if possible, that means that it is either 30 days or shorter depending on how this thing could be agreed within other clubs. I will mention only one thing that has been discussed in the media which the Minister has referred to, which means the possibility of sending a person to perform a foreign service without her consent, for a period of up to one year. I've noticed complaints, which, of course, have appeared. It is logical, because if there is something without consent, it may arouse the emotions of those who today might defend this matter. I think it is necessary to realize that this is a service of the state and that it is not possible, if a person is in the service of the state, has a decent income for it, it has as its profession, to choose where he goes and where he does not go, and to leave it a little bit where he likes and where he does not. On the other hand, the restrictions need to be perceived as set up, and it is important to think about whether one year is long or short, because, for example, from the point of view of family life, it can be very burdensome, and whether there will be or will be no control mechanisms to prevent the abuse of this institute. But that is a matter that we are certainly able to talk about in committee, and the promise of the Minister is that the Ministry will certainly hold the debate with us, so I think that if these reservations are to be heard, they can be eliminated. So once again, I would like to ask for the support of this bill, and if the veto institute were used, he asked that the deadline be reduced to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u5	Yes, I'm registering your proposal. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Laudát is declared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u6	Thank you. Since some Members of the CIP advise me that there may be a problem in the way this law is proposed, and on behalf of three clubs - TOP 09, ODS and Dawn - I give the veto to the procedure § 90 para. 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u7	Thank you, and now please, duly signed up for Mr Plíšek's debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u8	Madam Vice-President, dear fellow Members, allow me to comment on the amendment to the Civil Service Act. In the beginning, I would like to say that I do not understand very much why a few months after application, because the service law came into force on 1 January of this year, and after the systemization of the jobs itself, where it took place 1. 7th of this year, after such a short period of time, we must have here an amendment to the Service Act, when we all remember how difficult negotiations took place last year. Finally, the government coalition agreed with part of the opposition on the wording of this Service Act. He was also present at those meetings. Minister of Foreign Affairs and I remember that, even then, there was a debate as to whether the foreign state service was to have certain exceptions to this law or whether these exceptions were to be rather unique and exceptional. [[15.40 hours]] At that time, the members of the government coalition, and the government proposal that was actually included in the parliamentary proposal - told us that these exceptions should be as little as possible in terms of the notification of this standard, this service law, the European Commission, which I believe has already taken place. The proposal is brief today, but I think a very fundamental amendment, which is worth discussing properly in the Constitutional Legal Committee, and it is therefore okay that three MPs have applied the veto to an accelerated discussion. I will therefore now address the specific comments. It has already been discussed by previous speakers, but indeed the addition of § 67 on the provision, the sentence that a civil servant performing a service in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Defence can be sent to perform a foreign service even without his consent, unless the period of his secondment exceeds one year. This is a very controversial provision. I understand broadcasting without consent in the armed forces, with members of the armed corps, where there are certain other regulations, other principles, but for civil servants, I consider this a very controversial provision. And I assume that because I do not propose that this provision of this law be subject to debate in the constitutional law committee and that, together with our colleagues, we will come up with an amendment because, in my view, an employee in the civil service cannot be so strictly forced to perform the service under the service law. That is not all, even government legislation - some unfinished business remains in the commentary proceedings, which we should then get to when we discuss the constitutional committee. I am referring to the proposed point 2 of the draft amendment to the Service Act, under which the obligation to hold selection procedures for service posts in the field of employment on the territory of the Czech Republic would be waived in connection with the posting of a person to perform foreign service. Such posts could thus be filled without a selection procedure by a person who has not yet performed a service in the service. Failure to carry out a selection procedure to fill a vacancy to such a wide extent could violate one of the European Union's essential requirements. I remember very much how the government coalition, when it enforced the law of service, said: it is a clear request from the European Union, we must have this law effective by 1 January. And now her government legislation here says that there may be a breach of the European Union's fundamental requirement for a transparent civil service and related transparent selection procedures and a system for the occupation of vacant posts. Because since we have already decided to include foreign civil service in the Service Act, since the notification has already been made to the European Commission, it is now coming up with relatively fundamental changes. In addition, point 5 of the draft amendment to the Act also appears to be partially problematic, according to which they could perform a civil service at the place of employment for a maximum period of two years by civil servants who do not have a recognised or composed special part of the official examination in the field of service laid down for their place of employment. Again, another principle of public service required by the European Union could be violated, namely the requirement for professional government. So at first glance, it is an innocent, brief amendment to the Service Act, but it contains three contested provisions. The two have already been pointed out by government legislation, one thing, broadcasting for one year without the consent of a civil servant against his will, is, of course, very contradictory. It is therefore okay that this proposal will be discussed in the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think it is necessary to rework it in a fundamental way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u9	Thank you. Now please, with Mr Šarapatka's factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would and my previous speaker's account. He wanted to say that his comments were more about formulation, and I think he is not very familiar with the functioning of the foreign service. Like he said, I really can't. But with him, I don't think the amendment will solve the problem at the Ministry. I believe that the foreign service should be dealt with by a special law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u11	Thank you. Mr. Bend's microphone, please. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u12	Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a brief comment, in particular, on the reason for the veto on this bill, but I will follow up on what my previous speaker said in a factual remark. I think that all the proposals that are being translated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here today, or by the government as a whole, but actually processed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, show that the strict law on civil service is basically not suited to foreign service. The question, of course, is whether the Civil Service Act is even appropriate for the administration of the state. You know I have great doubts about that. I've pronounced it here many times. Yet, through its Members, this government coalition has forced itself, with enthusiastic support from the European Union, that we must and have the Civil Service Act, and I think that now everyone is just staring sadly, except that many people have been replaced and placed in office, what they are doing and will do in the future. We see it every step of the way. State service abroad is just one of the areas where it shows how incredible problems it makes. I have one comment about the proposal, what's missing there. I assumed that when the Ministry announced with great glory that it would submit a proposal for an amendment to the Civil Service Act to resolve problems, the first problem they would solve was the problem with ambassadors or ambassadors, who are over 70, which raises large media, say, echoes. We well know that pulling Filipiová out of Syria would simply be desperate stupidity, but yet it is the only thing that is publicly spoken of and which is not addressed in the proposal at all. Maybe she has another solution, I don't want to force the Minister to tell us whether he wants to call us or not. But still, I was surprised that the only thing that seemed to me that was really in a hurry and had to be done, otherwise at the end of the year we would get into a slightly absurd situation, so that is not included in the proposal. On the contrary, they are contained in it - I would say that it is such a typical administrative material. Officials have discovered that some things aren't right for them, because they're just as badly rotating as they are, and they're making a bad return from those foreign missions to those vacant posts, and they're off on missions again. So they're trying to figure out how they could rotate better and make sure they're in that service all the time. I think that if they want to rotate and if they want to, as the Minister described, be more in crisis situations, perhaps they should not have been under the service at all and under the idea that they have a lifelong care and will never have to listen to another minister and someone like that again, perhaps they should have thought about that in advance. But now they're trying to retain the benefits of the Civil Service Act and at the same time retain the benefits and privileges they've been used to at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a long time, regardless of what kind of minister sat there or what kind of government was. It's just the notoriety of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[15.50 hours]] So much for the general reservations. The specific ones - some have already been mentioned. In particular, I regard the provisions on the possibility of sending for one year without consent. I remember how many times this has been dealt with in the past, for example, in courts and judges and prosecutors, and we are still within one country, although the institutes that are supposed to be relatively independent. But the idea that the Minister, or even the Ministry's management, has the right to say "so, and next week you're going to Syria, Belize, Antarctica" to invent only some relatively normal destinations, and if that person rejects it, it's undoubtedly a violation of the Civil Service Act - I think the solution must be found other than that the Ministry will have the power to order him to send him abroad. I don't think that's really possible, because it could be a very simple way to disgust any uncomfortable employees enough to be forced out of the ministry. The last point, there may be only my ignorance that there is a legislative shortcut in the law, but I am not quite sure about it - in Section 178 in the merger of a partner and family, or, as it may be seen, family and personal life, it is stated "which is a husband or partner of a public servant." I'm asking if it's a legislative shortcut to a registered partner. Then, in terms of the laws of this country, however much I may disagree with them, I would understand. If it is to be a partner in general, then I see it as a big problem, because it is not a matter which Czech public law recognises. We only know her from a personal point of view in private law. And the idea that anyone who is sent to a foreign embassy, except his wife, even if he doesn't have it with him, can take any mistress or any number of mistresses and alternate them there and keep them employed seems to me to be at least controversial and I would just be very happy to make this clear by the third reading, if it is a legislative abbreviation of a registered partner, or if we are suddenly in public law talking about partners as equals to husbands, which would terrify me very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u13	Thank you, and I'll ask Mr. Bendl for a microphone. Mrs Pastuchová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u14	Good day, colleagues, colleagues. I listened with enthusiasm to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and had to smile when a member of the government comes here, and he strongly convinces not opposition MPs, because the opposition here has made possible and impossible for you not to accept such a construction of the Civil Service Act, and it was a rather merry time when we enjoyed this Civil Service Act, and now, after a few months, one of the important ministers of this government comes from my point of view, which gives him the courage to come up with the bill and convince those who voted for this draft State Service Act to change it after those few months of operation, because something is absolutely wrong there, but it is only six paragraphs. Actually, it's not a big deal, it's just that some things don't suit us. I think there's a lot in there. However, on the Margo that the Foreign Minister here says that he will save about 80 million crowns, I can say that they would have been saved for the larger order if the bill on the Civil Service was not in the form in which he is. So if it were really for the government to spare, then the law would have a different, much simpler design. He does not only bring problems to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also to the Ministry of Regional Development, where we see that some officials are in the state service regime and do the same work as officials who are not in the state service regime, are otherwise honored, have other technical and especially such social facilities, etc. I think that the law in practice will soon prove that other ministers will be more courageous and will come and say: "Only two, three, four paragraphs more, because it really doesn't work, and we need it urgently. It turns out we actually need to fix the law a little bit. We need him, but not in this form." I would be very interested to know whether the Secretary of State or anyone else would say if we were to make any major changes in the Chamber of Deputies, there would be a need for a new additional notification, or whether we need to go to Brussels with it, or whether we can make any changes we want without having to identify these changes. Whether we believe that this is not necessary when the law and its intention had to be notified in Brussels. Whether this rule complicates life not only for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is it not affected by the validity of the entire law? I want to ask if this is relevant - because I am not a diplomat expert and their background on how our diplomats work abroad and what employment contracts are etc. However, I know that other ministries - for example, the Ministry of Agriculture wants to broadcast its representatives or representatives of the Czech Republic, who are supposed to represent us and negotiate with us, to mediate business with Czech agricultural companies abroad. Whether this applies to this area, or whether this area is excluded from it and does not concern it. Maybe not, I'm not saying it. I just want to ask if we're sure it doesn't concern them. Perhaps they are also from the Ministry of Industry and Trade or other ministries people who use the status of diplomat. I'm not sure, that's why I'm asking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u15	Thank you. Now with priority rights, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Minister, you asked for priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u16	Thank you. Thank you for the debate and, of course, I do not prevent myself from having to deal with these changes in committees or in committee. I would like to respond first to some things that can be answered fairly clearly. At the beginning, I said it was a technical novel. I certainly believe that no notification will be necessary at this time. This is a change that I think is far from essential. I still think it's not what it was said here that now a series of amendments to the Civil Service Act will be launched here, because I've put a lot of work here to try to explain that really in the case of the State Department, it's a very unusual thing. Perhaps Mr Benda is a bit right about us making a whip. I think even though it was done at a rather large pace, even today I think that if there was more time, it was almost impossible for these two different principles - a little like fire and water - to connect and find the solution immediately. That's a really hard thing to do, and we had to figure out how it's going to behave to come - and these are the most pressing things, and I think we're giving it right now urgently because we need this, because otherwise some things would have stopped completely, because I can tell you, here are the people we need to employ, whether they're local forces, like I described them here, our citizens abroad, or family members, and we would really be losing. So this is an urgent matter. I am convinced - and we are preparing, working and working on the Foreign Service Act. I think it is necessary for the future, but at this point, we are only dealing with what is supposed to ensure the Ministry's basic course of action without having the financial losses that I have been talking about and which would be very unpleasant. Then on to what was said here, as regards what Mr Bendl said. This concerns, for example, whether he meant economic diplomats, so they are definitely the types of functions that belong to the ones that we are talking about. This means that these functions are also the ones with whom we often need to work quickly, and they also concern the type of family member. That means it's the group of those who are hit and who can be hit. The area of economic diplomacy - these changes are also precisely to ensure its functionality. So if you are concerned about this area, I guarantee you that this change is really important for us to maintain the full functioning of the representative offices in this area. [[16.00 hours]] I also wanted to respond to Mr Benda's speech because - you know, I don't like it when it says the Civil Service Act just helped you bring someone to the Ministry. Don't be mad at me, but that's in every civilized country, every country with an advanced political culture, normal that when the government comes in, the minister has a certain opportunity to bring a certain part of the people with him. That's how it is in Britain as it is in the United States, Germany, everywhere. But the point is that there are certain rules, and I feel that what we have adopted is more of an effort to get those rules into it. I believe that what I do in the personnel field, that I am able to take responsibility for it. I don't like it being criticized on a flat-rate basis. I especially don't like it when we criticize ourselves like this. We don't know how the next election is gonna go, and you too, if you succeed in the election tomorrow, you're gonna want to add some of your co-workers to the state administration's team to help you manage the resort. That's a normal thing, and let's not talk about it in a dirty way. I'd just argue here that I have the right to choose the closest co-workers. I believe that we are doing this perfectly correctly, and I am able to defend it. I'm just defending myself from flat-rate criticism, because it's gonna sound easy here, and it looks like something out of the ordinary is going on, but that's totally normal. Mr Benda spoke of the impression that it was written by officials to protect certain privileges. Okay, but then there's a big argument about when, as one of the main points you've chosen, Mr. Ambassador, you're criticizing that it might be possible to send some diplomat somewhere for a year. It's not a privilege. On the contrary, we get to the point that this is the duty that we want him to do. There's a dispute here. I don't think this is about privileges. This is about ensuring the ministry's functionality, and I explained that the employment of a family member, the fact that we're talking about matching family life, is not a privilege. I even tried to explain that this is extremely beneficial for a number of reasons. Even for financial reasons, it is beneficial for us. Remember, if we employ local power somewhere, the person has a place there, we don't have to get him an apartment, we don't have to teach him Czech and I don't know what everything. That means it has great effects for us. Those aren't privileges. These are simply things that are advantageous for the Czech Republic and for the public service, for the service abroad. The point is to keep them, because it would be a shame to lose them. I've already talked about what seems to be causing the biggest debate, which is a reservation to the fact that it would simply be possible to send civil servants abroad without his consent. And I have one more thing to say here. I said that this is already a measure that is also in other countries of the world, I have just named here Germany and the United States at random, that it is not meant to be a punishment for someone who dislikes you, because I objectively know that we have vacant seats today, and that is not some place you would be afraid to go. I'll tell you straight away. It's like Beijing or Delhi or Nigeria or something. These are places that are not even the most dangerous, but they happen to be today - even Brussels or Kiev. Do you understand? Because, quite simply, it's not easy to work there. There's a lot of stuff in there, so it's better to pick someplace else. And I still feel that, on the one hand, of course, it must be based on certain ideas and orientations of the people concerned, but at the same time, it must also be taken into account that we need those people out there somewhere. And to have a chance in this - and I warn you, this is a thing that needs to be discussed with a union organization, that it is not completely arbitrary, there are mechanisms to control such a posting. It's not just that someone remembers and says. It's not that simple. So if you look at it, you'll find it's not arbitrary. But having this possibility, which exists elsewhere, for a limited time to send someone somewhere, seems natural to me. Look, you can probably take advantage of everything, but I'm telling you, this isn't led by trying to punish someone, I can promise you that here. This is being led by an effort to strike a certain balance in order to also make it a certain obligation to help the Ministry when it needs, in areas where it is busy. Like it's in Kiev, like it's in Brussels. Beijing is a strategic place, but I don't know if I can say it at all - it's not like we're underpressure. And so I could name another one. I don't think it's punishment. I'm saying it's more complicated than that. I'd like to assure you that this is led by good intentions and that it is not meant to be a means of education. That's nonsense, and I refuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u17	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points. First to Mr Bend's microphone, please. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u18	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, if the Minister had not started, I would not have gone out. Those are the sentences we said a year ago. The Minister has the right to bring his team. What does the Civil Service Act do? It completely blocks this right, it says - the public service is completely independent of the minister and you can bring perhaps a secretary and a press spokesperson. And when you're getting so excited here, I'm asking how many people have been replaced at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from election to today, who are under the law of service in the future. I'm saying they're hundreds of people. Maybe you can convince me not to. Hundreds of people that you've exchanged and that for every other minister, the Civil Service Act is blocking. Other ministries are alike. So don't give me the general theory now that the minister has the right to bring in his people when the law you wanted and you made it subject to your rule says the minister can't bring anybody in addition to the cleaners. And you took advantage of the last second before you could get all those people there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u19	Thank you. I would like a factual one - Minister, factual remarks take precedence. I'm sorry, but I have two facts in front of you. The first is Mr Bendl, Mr Plíšek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u20	Thank you for the floor. The Foreign Minister inspired me to interpel to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to count the people who were just before they became civil servants under the Civil Service Act, how many were exchanged to make it clear that they were not a team of ministers. We have been here all along pointing out the fact that the adoption of the Civil Service Act will bring concrete to the state administration as a whole. And basically, and believe me, that will happen one day, because this is the law we founded - if the Czech Republic is protesting what is happening to the children of Mrs. Michaláková today, if I say the right name, that is the result in the quotes of the Civil Service Act, when the Minister of the Norwegian Government says "I can't do anything about it, the officials have already decided it, so what can I do about it"? Every section that falls out of the law is good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u21	Thank you. With another factual request from Mr Plíšek. Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Minister, if you want to be factual, you still have to endure, there are others. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm only briefly in response to the Minister. The opposition does not criticize the fact that every minister brings his people to the Ministry after the elections, either in the Cabinet of the Minister or as political deputy or advisor, but criticizes the fact that officials of coalition parties, politicians, and not experts have been assigned to purely professional functions under the Civil Service Act, because the Civil Service Act is about the professional performance of the state service. Let's get this straight. I'm going to ask the Minister again because he hasn't answered my question. Government legislation really draws attention to two major problems. One is an exception to the obligation to conduct selection procedures for posts and the other to forgive the examination of civil servants, i.e. it would not be an obligation to carry out this examination. How did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deal with these comments of government legislation? I also do not find the simple answer that the amendment will not have to be notified to the European Commission. I don't think so, and I would like us to get it in writing either from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the guarantor of the State Service Act of the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Regional Development. I don't think it's that simple, Mr. Secretary. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u23	Thank you and with another factual request from Mrs Kovářová, Mr Klán will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand well that the proposal in question deals with problems that are burning, so to speak, and how much it burns, this is also illustrated by the fact that the procedure under Section 90 (2) is required. 2 of our Rules of Procedure. The minister said that it was really burning, that it needed to be approved. I wonder, however, whether the government envisages other problems in the course of the effectiveness of the new service law, and if so, I wonder when it can be expected to submit it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u25	Thank you. With another factual request from Mr Klán. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u26	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, it did not end up giving me the Pastuchová to ask the right-wing Members who voted in favour of this law when they discussed here last year. It was you. Last summer, actually last summer, you made that service bill, too. They did, but I also think and I can say, quite blackmail policy. I can say here that I didn't vote for the law, just like the KSČM MP's club. None of us raised our hand for this because we knew before that these problems would arise, but I will comment on them in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u27	Thank you and I will now ask the Minister whether he is interested in it. It is, please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u28	Thank you. I'm glad to be able to respond to those questions, especially because I can finally stop the flight of legends that are sounding here. I was asked how many employees I replaced at the State Department. I am really pleased to be able to answer that now, because here it was said that it was hundreds, Mr Benda said that it was hundreds. Let me tell you that, I don't know, of the 1,800 employees of the Ministry, those exchanges were about thirty or thirty-five, and they're, like, twenty of them under the Civil Service Act. And I'm able to prove that to you. So I'd like to see the myths in this place that I've changed hundreds. Of course, I behaved differently than my predecessor, who, as we know, replaced 350. So I was really modest compared to what was going on in the ministry over the past few years, and no one praised me for that, so I was so reasonable. On the contrary, I got hit here for hundreds, which, as I say, are a legend somebody made up. I'd like you not to succumb to so many media images that are being created. I feel that I could have been even more fundamental in this, especially if I had followed the example of those who were in the Ministry before me. And I'm simply saying that those dozens of people have the right to bring in the Foreign Minister as another, and I actually resent that this right is being questioned. So I hope that's the end of the debate. And as for the next one, about the possibilities or the fact that she's here... Failure to perform tests or the possibility, as has been said, that it would be possible for some to be exempted from passing tests. I would like to point out once again that it is not that the possibility is something absolute, which means that it would be something that would apply -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u29	Minister, I'm sorry, two minutes are up. Thank you. Two further factual points by Mr Bendl and Mr Benda. Mr. Benda is interrupting. Mr. Bendl is coming to the microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u30	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the discussion will not be over. You really inspired us to ask the Prime Minister how the ministers did. I'm not questioning the fact that you've brought 20 people to the State Department, I think it's some kind of estimate that's going to be good on paper, but according to my information, it's going to be hundreds. I don't mean with you, at the State Department, but there are ministries where, without a doubt, the hundreds will be at least closer, if not more. I think it will be worth it for the public to know how the Czech government took advantage of the situation and quickly replaced a number of officials before the Civil Service Act was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u31	Thank you and now please contact the microphone duly logged in by Mrs Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u32	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I would also like to comment on this law, especially on Section 67, as my previous speakers said. I have former friends who also worked abroad, who have been sent by the State Department, and I know they've been preparing for this journey for quite a long time and they've had to secure a lot of things about families and everything. I can't imagine anyone sending them away for a year from one day to the next without their consent. I don't think it's good if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deals with the shortcomings of its personnel policy in the form of a law. I think it could be solved, these difficult destinations, some benefits, such as, according to information, in the states of Belgium and Sweden. And I don't think a diplomat is a soldier. It may still be the Ministry of Defense, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I really couldn't agree with that without consent to send somewhere for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u33	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of Mr Klán, who is duly logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u34	Thank you for the floor, so I am now making a proper report to the debate. Let me make a few comments here. In addition, the depoliticisation of the state administration that the service law which was passed a year ago had helped it to do so, and the systemization actually took place until 1. 7. This is how these problems are found first at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I am not afraid to say that, of course, there will be other ministries that have a problem, because the service law itself is imperfect. And let's say here, I've already said it here in a factual note that the service law de facto created the right-wing opposition. She made it herself. Of course, social democracy and, of course, the government coalition were weak to actually resist in some way and to apply the service law of 2002. There were still some discussions that summer, could have been the Directorate-General of State Services. Now it's all done under the Home Office. I'm sorry about my little voice indisposition - so I don't even know where the deputy is lately, because I haven't heard from him in months. But now back to the foreign service. I want to ask the Minister how many political representatives he has because the Service Act introduces this instrument, which, of course, was the apple of the contention of various debates. They can be so-called at the Ministry. political representatives, whether you have one, two or none, I don't know exactly now, so I would like to ask you on this occasion, and whether there has really been a depoliticisation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the service law is supposed to do it. It seems to me in this debate, maybe I'm a little lost in it, as if the service law doesn't apply to the Ministry, even though it's one of the central authorities of the state administration. Plus, Section 67 on that one year. I want to ask who will determine the length of one year, whether or not they will give two months, six months, a year to the person concerned without his consent. I would also like to say briefly that, of course, this press should also be dealt with by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, because we have been discussing the Staff Law and I would like to ask the petitioner's various questions, so, of course, I will also propose a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development when ordering committees. That would be all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u35	Thank you and I note two factual points. Mr Benešík's microphone, Mr Laudát will be prepared with the first, please. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u36	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, I think that the law has absolutely a ratio. They diplomats and employees of representative offices have families, they would usually like to lead family life, but very often they are far away and it is not possible. So I personally welcome this proposal, I identify with much of what the Minister said that he could solve it... or that it can be very economical for the Czech Republic. The question of how we set the parameters, what the colleague said, of course through you, Marek Benda, about setting the parameters, who will be considered a family member, is very important because you will not trade your wife from one day to the next, but you will replace your girlfriend very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u37	Thank you, and I would like to continue with Mr Laudát's mike, with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I have to turn against the words that maybe the law of service has baked or put together a right-wing opposition. We stopped some atrocities, but that doesn't mean there aren't any more. The coalition pushed through it completely furiously and, of course, as diverse state administration and other institutions are, so now it comes across the problems that we have pointed out, making the law at all costs so quickly. Well, at any cost, and this is the result. But I don't know what you're arguing about. That is how it is put into the committee responsible, there will be amendments and then there will be some way of dealing with it. But I have to turn against it - we may soon be responsible for what this association is doing, which, by chance, the citizens have chosen, or he has gotten himself together here, and he calls himself a government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u39	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Urban's factual opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm kind of sad about the debate, co-workers and colleagues, because when we talk about people who represent and represent the Czech Republic, I thought it was the best we sent abroad, and it was an honor for them to represent the Czech Republic with the lioness on their breasts. And here in some details, a group of people are actually personally dehonested, who certainly don't have an easy job abroad, which is why I would very much like us to turn around if we looked at it positively. They have a task, they have a mission in my opinion, it is an honor for most of them, I am sure, to perform this function. Of course, if there is a need to address any technical conditions or organisational conditions for them to perform the role with honor, let us allow them to do so. And that's probably the amendment to the law. I don't think we should dehonest this service by the fact that the Zaorálek has hired someone there, God knows those people aren't willing to communicate about the tasks they're supposed to represent and perform abroad, etc. From this point of view, and especially in the area of economic diplomacy, I would, of course, wish that we had a lot more representatives, perhaps even in destinations other than today, because this is a great opportunity for the Czech country to prosper and increase the standard of living. Because we are and will always remain a country that will exist well or badly on the basis of what it produces here and takes abroad. So all I'm asking is to talk about these people positively, not to look for some negative examples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u41	Thank you, and please, with Mr Benda's proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u42	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, if I make a mistake, I will acknowledge it. I just wanted to apologize to the Minister for the hundreds. I guess that's really my typo. I'm serious about his numbers 20 and 35, and I'm gonna have them checked out, but I'm sorry for hundreds of them, and I'm sorry that they sounded, I think that's fair, if you say something wrong, then admit it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u43	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Stanjura's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u44	Such a little contradiction in our club. In the meantime, I had the numbers checked. According to Section 106, we asked for information about how many people left last July and, on the contrary, joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the time when the Foreign Minister Zaorálek was there. So from that January 2014 to July 2014, your office answered us in writing, and I will lend it to you, Minister, that 106 employees have left and 55 have been newly adopted. And since then, another 14 months have passed. Let me quote your words from the Lidové noviny: In a year and a quarter, which is sometimes April of this year since I've been here, about 50 people have changed in the leading positions. Not all of them. - And you're telling us today that there were 30 of them. So you deny your words in the Lidové noviny when you said 50 in the leaders, and you deny the answer from last July when your office told us that there were 106 of them. So I'd like to know how you used that number today, if your office was wrong in July 2014, 106 minus - plus 55, if you were wrong, which said in April of this year 50 in the leading positions. One more quote: I have brought about 12 of them, and there are only three Social Democrats. Well, that's 25 percent of what you brought. That's not a complete depoliticization or a zero. And I'm saying, I quote your conversation. I agree that this is from the media division of your coalition partner and not social democracy. He said there were about 130 people replaced, they identified a strong group of young Social Democrats. So, Minister, which number is: 106, which your office said last July, 50 only in the leading positions you mentioned this April or 30? Another six months, and you're gonna say that you didn't actually fire anyone at all, that you just accepted. Which wouldn't be special if I watched the government increase the number of officials. But you can't say 100 in July. Or the 30 has been since April, and I would have believed that that had happened in some way. Thank you for explaining later. And in general. Mr Klán said that the law of service was written by the right-wing opposition. If that were true, the law would be much better. We have succeeded, and František Laudát has already said so, to remove the biggest shortcomings, and many of the things we have pointed out are really causing problems today. I'll just mention a few. We protested the cancellation of contract salaries. Now the ministers are dealing with the problem, especially with top doctors, that they can't offer them contractual salaries. A problem that we pointed out, which was rejected. In the debates, we rejected the 70-year-old age for retirement. We said, "Let there be a way, not everyone is the same, let there be a way to make decisions." The government turned it down. They're really solving the problem today. We wanted greater penetration and more opening of public administration for experts who have proven themselves in the private sphere. You refused, too, and then sometimes I hear: they're not human. Well, they can't, because they can't log in because they don't, and the successful ones won't start in official positions. Why would they do that when they're successful in the private sector and they could work out of jobs in management positions and in public administration? And the debate on the quality of the diplomatic corps. Well, I think it's fair to say it's like everywhere else. I think that many of us are going on business trips with the House, whether with Mr. President Hamáček, with some of the Vice-Presidents or with committees, and meeting with our ambassadors. And many are really great and excellent. Then there are some who are mediocre, and then there are some that I'm ashamed to be from the same state. But that's not my thing, and it's not even my thing to deal with the mic here, and that's the way I talk about diplomatic service in general. So it's like everything else. They're great and excellent, let's create conditions for them, then they're mediocre, they're motivated to become excellent and great, too, and then they're subpar, and let's get rid of them. But again, there's a problem with how it works. And the idea of sending diplomats without consent is just not good. I think it's just a tool to get rid of uncomfortable people. They certainly are, and the Minister knows it much better than I do, that there are unpopular destinations where no one is going, and on the contrary, they are very popular where each other would like to go. Man understands it humanly, but the suggestion that we do it as if by force and force, and if he doesn't, I have reason to untie a job, so that's a clear guide to getting rid of uncomfortable people. That's all it is. [[16.30 hours]] So even though the service bill is valid for a relatively short period of time - and I am not a fan of rapid repairs, I would let it work for some time to bring about the other shortcomings, so that we don't do any novels three times a year. But that's what my colleague Marek Benda said in his opening act, the problem that is being mediated, is not addressed by this proposal. I've heard of the Cheyenne solution they're supposed to have made up in the country. I don't know if it's true, so I'm not gonna comment on the microphone either. But if that is the case, it is not a good solution and it reduces the seriousness of the Czech Republic. That we'd have someone if I put it that way, who would be the head of the representative office, and that would fill the dictum of the service law. Then we'll have someone we'll call the Ambassador who won't be the head of the representative office. Yes, we would probably comply with some interpretation of the law, but I do not think that this will contribute to improving our diplomatic service. Well, I'd like the Minister to see if he could do something about those numbers so I can understand. I'm lost in it. And I think Marek Benda's apology was premature. It is a fact that 106 are not hundreds, it is more than 100 in the first six months of the operation of Minister Zaorálek at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u45	Thank you. Minister, if you want it now, it's only as a point of fact. [[to the reporting Minister of the Zaoralek]] [[He doesn't want to.]] So Mr Klán takes precedence. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u46	Thank you for the floor. Let me respond by your means to Mr Stanjura. I want to ask - what, then, was the biggest problem of the Service Act when it was being prepared last summer or during the whole of last year? It was the General Directorate of State Services. It was all there was. So there was only one problem. Of course, we had a problem with that, too. It could easily have been created at the Office of the Government, it could have been done in any other way. As far as the cancellation of contractual salaries is concerned, we welcomed it, because people, of course, saw in the media that officials were immensely rewarded at ministries. At the Office of the Government, remember what happened there. The unnamed head of the Office of the Government was rewarded in such a way that the day would have to have 25 hours, 26 hours, 27 hours or more. But as far as the service bill is concerned, make it clear that the governments have been able to introduce the service bill since 1990, and they didn't have to be here just last year, and they didn't have to be here. Any government has been able to do that since 1990. He even committed himself to it in the Constitution. But it took almost 25 years for him to come into effect, and that took him to 1. 1st of this year. Of course, from 2002, we had a service law, but it never came into effect. So let's see what the biggest problem was and under what conditions you achieved this goal. Because even the way to hell is often paved with good intentions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u47	Thank you. With another de facto Mr Laudát. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u48	Thank you for the floor. When my colleague Klán asks, at least I can answer for myself or suggest. Just if we wanted a high-quality Civil Service Act, it couldn't have happened at this furious pace. And from the beginning of the 1990s and at the level of the communal, one crucial thing is solved is that on the one hand, you have a purely state administration that should be governed only by laws and by the laws to give - give and fall to whom, and then there is a more self-governing part of conceptual etc. And we've been warning across the spectrum from the opposition that thousands of different dogs will be buried there... If you yell out there, I'll wait. [[To the left side of the hall.]] Thousands of buried dogs, and now they come across it. Just what my colleague Stanjura said here. Even with diplomats, for example, they are of good quality and only because they reach some age, so we get rid of them. We don't have a good replacement. Everyone has different physical assumptions. That's how we're referring to whether the incision was running properly at the ERO, if it was running at the nuclear energy institutions at Mrs. Drábová's, and one office next to the other. Because there was always, like, a more conceptual part and then a purely public administration. And now they're flickering, everything's different, everybody's skating in some way. You've created two groups of officials. But you know, some of these things can be corrected. But if you're gonna fix it, it's about writing a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u49	I thank and record the proper application of the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u50	Yes. I would quite appreciate Mr Benda's speech, because I feel that it is solid and that it creates an atmosphere in which to speak afterwards. Because it seems to me that we could have explained the numbers elsewhere, we could have saved ourselves, and we could have really been discussing the law where things have to be explained. As for the numbers, it's very simple. Look, people with fixed-term contracts are leaving, like those family members I've been talking about who are a lot and who are leaving because their contract expires. That's not my personnel decision. If you ask me, I'll explain. Here's a whole series of decisions made by the former Secretary General, released by the janitor... I've been telling you the numbers of personnel decisions I've made. And it's not that hard to trace. So let's not surprise ourselves here, and let's not argue with numbers here. I'm ready to explain what's going on. But I feel like it's taking us away from what we're supposed to be dealing with. I feel like we could have explained this elsewhere. Because this debate shouldn't be about me. I think I'm able to answer, and who's interested, in so much detail, all the things that concern personnel policy. I'd just like us to go back to the law here, because I really want the law to be discussed. And I want you to actually help me in the House. Because what I'm telling you... You come to the Ministry, you have 1,800 people there, it's not easy. And that's where the Civil Service Act comes in. I can tell you that anyone who's dealt with this, you'd find it's not an easy situation. And to connect, as I've been trying to explain here, all these rotations with this principle of stability, objectively, is a problem. So I came to you - help me. I mean, the interest is common. We're all interested in the state service. We all want diplomacy to work, for representative offices to work. I didn't mean this as a political amendment to start a political struggle. I meant it as a technical matter that I wanted to discuss in a matter of fact. If there are reservations about anything, I was just ready to deal with it and find a sensible solution. Look, this is the opening of a debate on the Civil Service Act. Don't be mad at me, there were other governments, they had eight years to do it, there was another way to do it. We did it today in the situation in which we were, in the time we had at our disposal, best as we were able. Here from the numbers that were heard... If anyone wants to hear it, they hear it. I don't only have a representative of the one political party I represent. There are also representatives of other political parties! Even the opposition, I could say, has people in the whole system today. I think I've been right. Find me one person I fired to make room for mine. That's just not true. When I said I was building, too, and I wanted to lean on the people I relied on, I didn't do it at the expense of throwing other people out. While my predecessor fired 150 people! So I stand by the fact that I have acted correctly and that I have tried not to do any party cleansing. And I stand by the ones I've accepted. So I wouldn't want to continue this debate, which seems to me to be leaving a topic that is crucial to me, and that is the subject - so that we can also make the Civil Service Act effective for foreign service, which is specific and in which it is difficult to keep the principle of rotation with those principles that are embodied in the Civil Service Act. And I would like to respond to something else that has been said here. There was a concern about the exemption from the obligation to carry out a special part of the administrative examination for a particular field of service. Probably because it eliminates the risk of reducing the professional performance and the level of professional performance of the public service. First of all. I would like to say to these concerns that she is the level that is ensured by the fact that every employee - everyone - will have to pass the special part of the administrative exam for the so-called. field 9, i.e. foreign service and relations. It's just not like some unprofessional could come in. And the exception, it's just an option that the Service Authority doesn't have to take advantage of. And, of course, he is responsible for the quality of the service. Three. The possibility of not carrying out an official test is limited. She is limited by not applying to the positions of the superiors. The performance will continue to be subject to the condition of the composition of the special part of the administrative examination of the relevant field of service, and thus the professional performance will be guaranteed. [[16.40 hours]] And then there's the fourth thing I'd like to say about this account. With regard to rotation within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is irrational for every employee who spends an average of two years at headquarters to prepare for this period to pass a special part of the administrative examination for a particular field of service which would leave immediately after passing the exam. It's not normal. Then he's being aired abroad. That is also why we are seeking this exception here. Then there is another area I would like to respond to, and these are selection procedures. Once again, I would say that a more detailed debate awaits us at some point in the committee, but here for the House, I would say at least that the volume of competitions at the State Department would, given the constant rotation that is its own, and which I am constantly talking about here, foreign service, the number is really such that it would completely paralyze us. Continuous selection procedures at places which are released in connection with the transition, rotation, would de facto make it impossible for the Ministry to function at all. Here, too, I would point out that the possibility of non-compliance with the procedure is not at all impeccable, she is limited in such a way that it is possible to proceed without a tender only when a vacancy is released in connection with the secondment of another employee to perform a foreign service. Only at this point can we abandon the selection procedure. Then there is another restriction that the possibility of not having a tender or taking a job without a selection procedure can only be made by a civil servant. This means that the restriction is that only someone who is already admitted to the public service can be invited to this place without a selection procedure. This is also a limit on how to proceed with this instrument without a selection procedure. This is the basis, a contribution to the debate that awaits us. And those were things that I felt were necessary to respond to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u51	Thank you. Please refer to Mr Stanjura's microphone, which is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u52	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to upset the Minister, I asked a question, it wasn't a criticism. If it's being criticized, it's from a different side than the Foreign Minister suggests. I'm certainly in favour of the Minister having the right to bring his team. I really think so. I consider it pointless what you have advocated, the division of the Deputys into political and non-political. I think they're all co-workers of the minister, and he has the right to bring them in, and each of them has to answer for some part of the ministry. Criticism is not that the minister is like an away team on enemy territory, he comes to an office where there are 1,800 people, and he can't bring anyone. We really don't understand each other. I'm on your side. And I think the Minister has the right to bring his people. And there are certainly positions that are not discussed, the chief of the cabinet, the entire cabinet, the media section, the Deputys, and I'm sure there are other positions that we can agree on. The amendment, however, is called an amendment to the Civil Service Act and we will not avoid debate, all aspects of the law, even if the Minister does not like it and logically wants to address only what concerns his department. But isn't it time to debate whether the state service should even apply to your ministry? We're not the ones defending constant selection procedures when I start from the end of what you said. On the contrary, I think it's pointless that we're just playing at how we conduct selection procedures, and it doesn't contribute to the efficiency of the rotation. Just so we're clear, if there's a criticism, it's from the other side. And the fact that there isn't a tender, and only someone who's already in the civil service can do that, I'm criticizing that from the other side. Why couldn't it be someone who hasn't been on the Civil Service yet? There are others who will criticize you for having few tenders, but it is not us. Let's just get our positions straight. I think it's too rigid, that it's wrong to follow, that the selection procedures are repeated, they're formal, and it doesn't contribute to anything. In the end, and the Foreign Minister knows it, it's all the Minister's fault. Even for things that he really can't control. I remember, and I don't want to get involved in the debate about how many personnel acts were signed by the Minister prior to the effectiveness of the Service Act without really initiating or addressing when the Minister had to sign the appeal of the Head of Department. Luckily, it's not anymore, and it's elsewhere. Then we will do something - when I see Minister Took, that criticism be spread among the present members of the government, when the Minister of Transport is also Deputy Minister of State, which I do not think is possible from the definition of functions. I know him, he's a good clerk, and I don't criticize the particular person at all. But I think he's either the Deputy Minister or the Secretary of State. That's why we wanted it different. My colleagues and I say that the Deputys are supposed to be the people of the Minister who leave and come with the Minister, if the new one doesn't want to keep them, of course he has the right to keep them, but the Secretary of State should stay. If you merge this function or assign it to both functions, I think it's against the meaning of how it should have been. I've known Mr. Čoček for a long time, he's a man in his place, but he should only represent one place, either the Deputy Minister or the Secretary of State. And it's a matter for the Minister to choose which chair he's gonna be helping him on because he's a man who has something to say in the resort. I guess we didn't get along in his first performance. I wanted numbers and I quoted numbers from your ministry. If they'd written in our reply that it was 80 years since their hours were up, I'd have used it to quote it. But we only got this dry answer. I really can't get it out of her. I don't want to debate whether you've switched a lot or not. Let's talk about whether the minister can even influence the functioning of the office, if he has sufficient competence, because he has 100% responsibility. And I say that we overreacted a little bit, and I apologize to some of the members of the government coalition that I said that the government MPs were opposed to the greater permeability of private people. They were not all, by far no, I see the Chairman of the Economic Committee, who then supported this proposal for a greater opening, I apologise that sometimes in short, I will say everyone, but of course, it is rarely everyone. Some members of the government coalition voted differently than most. And I think that's a rational debate about the Civil Service Act. I admit that the principle of rotation with service law does not go together. The question is whether we're supposed to make it this cosmetic, because in six months, it might show up on something else, or let's have some real fun and find a political consensus that it won't belong there. And we won't object, I'll say it right away. But we were not the ones who were afraid of Brussels, that they would not even give us the euro if we did not pass the service law. Remember what we said here: let's do it our way, not the way Brusel wants it. Many of us believe that the basic features of the law are good. That's what we agreed on. If there are any application problems, what's wrong with that? I was thinking about removing his resort, or at least the diplomats, from the service bill altogether. [[unintelligible]] What would happen? I don't know, I think it would be for the best. But that's not the kind of thing the opposition can propose without consulting the government. I would like us to think about this model when it comes to the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u53	I will ask Mr Tejc for a microphone, Mr Benešík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u54	Thank you. I am glad that we are heading towards the end of this debate and, above all, that we could find a common ground for the coalition and opposition, because, after all, the State Department will hopefully be here under any government, so it is certainly a good match to look for. I would just like it not to be forgotten, I will say this in addition to the introductory word now, I suggest that we shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days, i.e. the deadline would be 30 days with the agreement of the Minister, because, as I have noted, if we had proposed a shorter one, the veto would have been raised against it. That's the only request on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u55	I'm registering your request. I would like to ask Mr Benešík in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u56	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm gonna do it again. I said it here when we were discussing the service law, Brusel did not want a service law in the Czech Republic, Brusel wanted a stable state and public administration in the Czech Republic, because the instability, when officials changed every moment, led to the wrong draw. How many times did it happen that various papers with a change of Garniture were searched for in Brussels and were not found in the Ministry by the currently changing officials. This was the foundation. The Service Act was only meant to be a means of doing so, and I do not really think that in any Member State they could come up with any better means of stabilising the public administration, it is a service law. Personally, I think, but now it's too late to chase that if the foreign service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were excluded, then the European Commission would certainly understand, because as far as I know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by extension, our representative offices do not draw any European finances, so they could probably be eliminated, but now, of course, it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u57	Thank you. Since no one else is going into the debate, I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees. [[This is the minister.]] Sorry, final words. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u58	I'm not gonna say the final word, I just remembered I didn't answer one thing. There was a question about how many political deputys I had. I have one to answer that. Otherwise, I'll just say the last word. All I'm asking you to do is, I know it's a bigger problem, please, let's make this urgent adjustment to what we urgently need right now in order to ensure the performance of the foreign service, with the fact that we won't have to put any more money on it. We are prepared to prepare the Foreign Service Act, which is special, but it will take some time. But we're already working on it, and we're able to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u59	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. We shall therefore now proceed to the draft commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. Before we do, I'm going to sign you all off, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. I wonder if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I don't see anyone. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 19, to which 145 are registered, for 145. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if he has... Yes, I see Mr Klán's application and then Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u60	As I have already announced in the general debate, I propose that the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development should also deal with this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u61	Mr. Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u62	I am convinced that the Committee of Foreign Affairs should also address this issue. Who else, after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-002-042.u63	Thank you. Any other suggestions? It's not like that. We will therefore now vote on the proposal to order this press to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Before I do, I'll sign you all off and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. We are voting on the draft commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 20, registered 149 present, for 59, against 64. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We will now consider Mr Bendl's proposal on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 21, to which 150 are registered, for 141, against 2. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. I note that this proposal was therefore directed to the Committee of Constitutional Law as a committee of guarantee and further to the discussion of the Foreign Committee. There was also the rapporteur's proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 22, to which 151 are registered, for 107, against 16. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I'm done reading this law. We will now proceed to the next item on today's agenda, and that is the point.
