ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u1	1. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the current situation around orders in the Czech Post, s.p. I will ask the Minister if he wants to take the floor on behalf of the Government to make this point. [[He points out the Director General of the Czech Post.]] Since we've agreed to give you a speech from the CEO, I'll give you some space. Please, Director.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u2	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I do what I can say for a system of public procurement or for a system of controls, if any. the fact that the Czech Post did not manage or behave transparently. First of all, I fundamentally reject that we would not behave transparently. We've published all the things we had or could have published. Over the past year, we've done almost 80 external audits, over 50 internal audits, so that we can control everything we have in some way to check well. All the documents we've been asked for, either to the Ministry of Finance or to the Ministry of the Interior, have been handed over. If we couldn't give something, it's about our business relationships. And then I have to protect the Czech Post, the interests of the Czech Post and our employees. As far as public procurement is concerned. We're following the Public Procurement Act. In many cases, we go beyond the time when we publish contracts on the Internet. Anyone can sign up. We're going through the e-auction system. In all this time, we have not noticed any case of proof that the Czech Post has acted in a transparent manner in this area, that we would have acted badly, that we would have broken the law in the field of public procurement. Again, we've done a number of checks. Yes. We do things that involve re-evaluation of contracts. We want to improve the management of the Czech Post. That is why we end some business relationships, recompetitive so that the management is transparent. There was still 1.5 billion mentioned here. For universal service. I think it is absolutely standard and normal because the Czech Post is in a competitive environment, that the costs we have for something the state has ordered, so we want to cover so that we can manage. We're in competition. We want to manage as much as any other company and we want to be successful on the market. I guess that's it. If necessary, I'm available for questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Director. I am opening a general debate, where I therefore have Mr Faltýnek's application, whom I am asking to take the floor. At the same time, because it is the first speaker in the debate to take up the role of rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u4	Good afternoon or early evening, colleagues. I would simply add briefly to Vice-President Jermanová's speech why we asked for this meeting to be convened. I understand through Mr President František Laudát that this may be unusual, because in the past, when it was some major cases, whether it was the accusations of some fellow ministers or other cases of machination with public contracts, the extraordinary meetings were not convened, even when some colleagues, former ministers, called the police and influenced the investigation, so the extraordinary meetings were not convened and the commission of inquiry was not set up. But lately around the Czech Post, the newspaper case - and it doesn't matter if it was a newspaper like this or a poppy tree - was quite a lot. And if you look into the past, of course, from publicly accessible sources, I can talk here for quite a long time - and this does not go to Mr. Director Elkán or to the current post office management, these are things from the past over the last x years, when we all remember that police intervened in the Czech Post quite a number of times. She was investigating various cases. I don't want to name these cases here because I've been talking for a very long time and we don't know what happened. [[18.30 hours]] With regard to the case that resonates here, and therefore is probably alive, I did not call any investigator or prosecutor to find out at what stage the investigation of the two managers of Agrotec company, which I actually bought for Agrofert in 2006 and then drove for a long time, now I do not know exactly when I left the company's organs, we have information only from the media that two managers are accused of alleged manipulation of orders at the Czech Post office, but no damage was allegedly done. We don't have accurate information, but that's exactly what the investigation committee might find out, because, of course, the commission has the right to invite law enforcement authorities and, in some secret regime, to ask questions about things dead or alive. So that's why we asked this meeting to be convened to simply disprove the constant speculations that the House here, our ether, the media are running, speculating and when we will take political responsibility for what may have happened, but that may be decided by the court, or it will certainly be decided by the court whether something has happened or not. That's part of the thing I wanted to say. Part two of the thing. The Minister of the Interior said that as an YES movement we have our representative on the Supervisory Board and in the management of the Czech Post. That's right. I'm saying again that I'm not aiming at the current situation, because the case we're talking about and all the cases before that happened before our arrival. Our point is to investigate everything, as has been said here from the mouths of fellow Jermanová and the Minister, fall for. We have experience that some investigating committees in the House didn't investigate anything, but some have found something. For example, the commission led by colleague Schwarz to Opencard came to some concrete conclusions and defined exactly how, who, what he did right or wrong there. I believe that if we can agree and the Commission can establish a proportional representation in the House, that this commission will come to some conclusions, whether it concerns the case of Agrotec or the case before. Then, of course, we will put at our disposal specific things that I believe should be investigated, because the conclusions on them are not known from publicly available sources. Now I would get to the Supervisory Board, which the Minister spoke of. It is true that there are representatives, however, they are bound by some confidentiality where the Supervisory Board is entitled, under the State Enterprise Act, to consult all documents and records relating to the activities of the undertaking, but at the same time members of the Supervisory Board are obliged to maintain confidentiality of confidential information and facts, the disclosure of which third parties might cause damage to the undertaking. At the same time, the members of the Supervisory Board are responsible for the damage caused by the breach of this obligation. By this we merely quoted from one of the minutes of the Supervisory Board the general wording concerning all members, their actions, the requirement of materials and the handling of this information. This is also one of the reasons why we believe that the commission of inquiry could do the work and tell us how it was in the past with the orders at the Czech Post. As has been said here, the Czech Post is a strategic company, it is a state enterprise, employs 30,000 people, affects us all, our daily lives. They certainly do not benefit, and in this I would clearly give the truth through the President to the Minister, any doubts and speculation about the activities or some unfair practices in the Czech Post in the past. It is certainly a good thing that he will defend the interests of the Czech Post and its employees so that these cases do not damage the name of the Czech Post. I am prepared, of course, if there is any interest, in this debate to say my point of view on the case, which is medially very interesting. I'll only speak for myself. I understand, of course. For the record, unfortunately, that hasn't sounded very good in the media, more companies, more people, are being investigated in the last case. Only Agrotec is mentioned, I understand that this is interesting medialy, but even this is something that the commission could look at, what is going on there, what are the companies that have committed, what damage has been done there and who is responsible for it. So far, so very briefly from my side. berit this a request to dispel the doubts that are now in the media space. We are in favour of the matter being investigated as soon as possible by law enforcement authorities, and information can then be given to the public, as I say to whom it falls, how specific things are, the contracts have been implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u5	Now the Minister will have the floor. After that, with priority rights, Mr Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Supervisory Board of the Czech Post also has one unique option, and that is that it manages the Audit Committee. I don't know if you know. If you don't, just think of it as new information. And, of course, your representative may also propose any audit that the Czech Post should intervene in order to clearly show that the company has managed somehow and that it currently, in my opinion, is operating transparently. We also extend the Supervisory Board to representatives of mayors, regional representatives and one more employee, because we want the Post Partner project, where the irreplaceable role of municipalities, regions and municipalities will have a clear opportunity to see inside the management of the state enterprise, with which they can conclude certain marriages within the framework of franchise. This is a strengthening of the transparency of the Czech Post, which de facto after the approval of the Government Committee will mean the abolition of the Supervisory Board. It is my promise that these people, including your ANO representative, will be able to propose the extension of the audit system to the Czech Post. About what Mr. Faltýnek here said. I'm up for an investigation committee to save contracts ten years ago. I don't have a problem with that. But ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's possible for the commission to save a living cause. A live case isn't in court. This is a flagrant mistrust of law enforcement authorities. My colleague Faltýnek here said the police intervened there many times. She intervened twice. And both cases are connected. The first were construction contracts and followed the second step, where Agrotec was also charged. On this question, fall to whom. In essence, let's wait, now, according to the media, the prosecutor is acquainting himself with the file and deciding whether this case will end or not end in court. And we, at the time, before an independent court, under the supervision of the Attorney General, who is the head of Lenka Bradáčová, do not think that this House does not trust her, this experienced prosecutor, we will enter into this living case. [[18.40 hours]] I'm not defending myself, but I'm in favour of voting on the committee of inquiry to investigate contracts ten years ago, from now on, there's no problem with that. But let's really seriously consider whether we want to break into what is a living cause. That's a total precedent that's never been here before. He never was. And, of course, the persons concerned who are in the case, after getting to know the file, or after going to court, have the opportunity to disclose what they consider appropriate from the file. That, of course, is their free choice. I think it's a far less dangerous journey than breaking into what's in the power of justice in this country. Please, let's get some sense into our heads. This is not an attempt to release - and now I will quote a great Czech politician, with his consent, Mirek Kalousek - this is not an attempt to release 300 cubic meters of fog here, it is just that we live in a legal state. And I'm a little worried we're out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u7	Yes. Now I have two factual points. The first is Mr Blažek, then Mr Bendl. Both of you, two minutes apart.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u8	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. I feel like I'm in some ridiculous theater, how this meeting is going so far. But I'll take it from somewhere else. It was the YES movement, which, when it ran in the elections, had a password everywhere: equal rules for everyone, perhaps the same rules for everyone. Now it comes down to the fact that Agrotec is being prosecuted, that can just happen. There are about 100,000 criminal prosecutions per year in this country. And those are the same rules that only because the company that is prosecuted belongs to Andrea Babiš is going to be set up by an investigation committee. Then let's do it for the other 99 999. It's not the same rules. Second thing. I've never used and used the fact that Agrotec or Agrofert is somewhere criminally prosecuted, because I know that prosecution is a certain thing that can happen, and until the court decides, I would never use it, unlike Andrej Babiš. Andrej Babiš is the one who has enough to write something in the paper, and he's already sitting there, and "I have an open source, and that one has to leave, and that one has to come back, and he shouldn't be here anymore." Or the wording "someone is being investigated " is enough for him, and he is already calling for a departure from office and from everything. I've never said anything like this to you here, and I don't understand why there should be an investigation committee that is supposed to be the defense committee that nothing wrong happened at Agrotec. That's the right point, that's what my colleague Faltýnek said, although my colleague Jermanová said it in general, what was terrifying in the post office where it was happening. That's ridiculous. And I'm an ordinary opposition MP. There's gonna be a meeting. The Coalition will approve the program. He'll invite the postmaster. He says, "There's everything okay." And then we'll investigate the investigation committee to prove to him that it's not okay. Don't be mad at me, but that's absolutely absurd, crazy, and I'm glad I've been there, because I wouldn't even make up this situation. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u9	Mr Bendl has two minutes now. Mr Schwarz will also be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. I confess that I don't really understand what we're actually calling this committee of inquiry to after two years of governance in a situation where the government coalition has an interior minister, has a board occupied, comes up with nothing concrete, that there's any suspicion that someone's saving anything, or, on the contrary, it's saving that there's some case that's bothering somebody, and so on. The only thing I read in the paper, and I don't really appreciate it, is that until the trial comes down, you just fall for who's on page one. But if Agrotec or anyone else is being investigated, but he's not being convicted, it's just a case that we can play politically with, but the wise guys are more likely to wait to see if a court decision comes or doesn't come. But I'm more impressed that there's some kind of political pressure on something that we don't even really know is creating a certain fear inside, so that all those who suddenly have to listen to someone to notice it's him they're supposed to listen to, because they might need to be threatened by their place. I feel like this is some kind of game I don't understand. And as ready as I am to raise my hand for every committee of inquiry, this seems strange to me that no one can say a specific thing. When we were talking about the Opencard investigation committee or what it was all about, it was at least some thing that was tangible, assessable, something happened in it. I don't understand here. Whether it's an attack on the Home Secretary or some former Home Secretary? But there's nothing to hold onto. Can you not, please, say something more specific than that it's weird and let's investigate ten years ago?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u11	Mr Schwarz's point of fact, and after that there is another factual comment by Mr Novotný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u12	Good evening, Mr President, colleagues. I listened to you a little bit. I'd like to see the people for the uninformed in law. We were investigating the Opencard across the political spectrum, and there was also a live case. I think we can deal with this if there's a committee, so the chairman will deal with the fact that he won't run into a live case. If there's a rumor that we want to investigate that we have the will to investigate ten years of contracts back, it's not just about Agrotec or who, but just ten years ago, if the mail really managed and did the job the way it was supposed to. There's nothing to it. Well, even the CEO should be interested in seeing if that's true or not. So I'm asking you to be simple. It's simple: either this House wants a committee of inquiry or it doesn't want one. I understand why the Minister is talking about why it should or should not be, I understand the opposition. But it's really simple. Do we want to show the people of our country how the post office has run in the last ten years, or do we not want to? That's how I see it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u13	Mr Novotný will now prepare Mr Fiedler. Everything's still factual so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u14	Colleagues and colleagues, I think all the nuances of this tactical battle that's taking place here have been perfectly described by Mario Puzo in his famous Godfather. What was it then? don Corleone learned that the police were after him, he said the police were in someone else's hands today, so we're gonna pull something on Don Ciccie, who has the police at his disposal right now. Maybe there'll be a balance. It hasn't happened yet. So then they said it would be good to find the balance somewhere else where they could meet, and that's better than the law enforcement authorities at the House level, but there's more control over it. But it still seems weird, so not completely logical and systematic, so in the media today, both sides are exchanging peace offerings, like they're not going to deal with the living causes that concern them, but they're going to throw someone from the past, because that's what they do in Sicily, that the parties switch bodies, and at that point, they might agree. Put an end to this awkward theater and let's go back to the functioning of the normal justice system in this country, that is to say police, prosecutors and courts. It will really be better than making Palermo from the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u15	Mr Fiedler has the floor now, followed by Mr Faltýnek, and then there is Mr Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u16	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll join my previous speakers. So far, I haven't really heard any relevant and compelling reason for this to take place. You say, "Let's investigate, let's check the orders of the Czech Post ten years ago, if everything was okay." Czech Post is a state enterprise. I don't think the Czech Post is the only state enterprise that's here for a second time, so now you come and say, "We're going to investigate the Czech Railways, or we're going to investigate other state enterprises, or the Budvar national enterprise, or everything or anything?" Why the Czech Post? I'm not saying no, I'm in favour of investigating things where there are some bad things. But tell me what it is. Mr. Schwarz here, who led relatively, I think the successful investigation committee on Opencard, said it would be investigated. But there was a perfectly clear reason why the commission was, why it was set up and what it was investigating. And don't be mad at me. I haven't heard from anyone here yet why this is about to happen. [[18.50 hours]] If I look at the blackboard on the left or right, it doesn't matter, point 2, the Czech Post Committee of Investigation, I will not take it from my colleague Havlová, she will definitely call when this point comes. I've heard you fall down a couple of times, so I'm hoping it'll apply when we get to the investigation committee. When my colleague Olga Havlová here mentions the D47 investigation committee, which hasn't investigated for 11 months. So if you guys want to fall, let's really investigate the D47, and let's start with that. Because it will probably be a condition for our club that we will only support this committee if you finally bring the D47 committee into life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u17	I thank Mr Fiedler. With another factual remark, Mr Seďa, followed by Mr Faltýnek, the President. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I have two notes. First remark, I would like to refresh the memory of the President of the Yes 2011 parliamentary club through you, Mr President. As Chairman of the Board of Directors of Agrotec, a. s., you have worked since 29. 9. 2006 to 1. 2. 2014. That's public information from the company register. And the second thing I would like to remind my colleagues that we also have a law on conflict of interest, namely § 8, a notice of personal interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u20	I'm sorry, I didn't get very well through Mr President Seda. About the conflict of interest. I said that I was here since 2006, when I bought the company and subsequently restructured, drove, until 2 April 2014, it was deleted from the register. That's what I said here. But maybe if the police reached out to me, accused me, interrogated me in this case, I might feel some conflict of interest, but I'm all this information that I've been saying here, so I've only got from the media. I'm bohužel so. I'm afraid so. [[It's coming!]] It's coming, yeah. But I just wanted to take the technical note when everything's okay and actually it's not interested in dealing with it and setting up a committee. I understand all the parties that are performing here, past or present. Then why did the Security Council Bureau of the State discuss the situation in the Czech Post? That's pretty crucial information. Maybe I don't know that personally. Maybe it's classified, and I won't be mad if we don't even know. But I guess everything's not okay. And as far as the living or dead case is concerned, we all know that the police were investigating the purchase of ABAS CiT Management, which was a money transfer company. And x of other things, so... But if there's no interest in seeing how those things have been going on in the past, I've just been talking about public procurement for the last ten years. So let's vote, and we can end this debate, as some of our colleagues here said embarrassingly. We simply wanted it to be made clear here that we are interested in simply investigating all matters relating to orders at the Czech Post and that the Czech public learn how transparent the Czech Post is managing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u21	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Now, with a point of fact, first Mr Svoboda, then Mr Bendl, then Mr Stanjura, then Mr Benda. Mr Svoboda, please make his point of order. Before Mr Svoboda comes, Minister Andrej Babiš asked for an apology today from 18.50 pm for work reasons. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I understand the Institute of Investigation as an extraordinary institute to replace or resolve things in which the normal system has failed. And I understand that, that's supposed to work. But in order for such an institute to be created, I, as an MP, must know "Why? Why? Pourquoi?" - and I don't know that. I'm sitting here, and until now, I don't know what the reason is for setting up an investigation committee for the post office. Because otherwise I could say that we can set up an investigation committee on the Forests of the Czech Republic and not justify anything. The moment I hear the reason why the commission is to be set up, and the reason I understand, I will vote for it. The moment it's just a request for something like this to go wrong, I'm sorry, it's not right, it's contrary to why we're here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u23	I thank Mr Svoboda. Now, with Mr Bendl's point of fact, Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u24	Since I have seen the Minister of the Interior reporting, I would ask him precisely the question: When you have a government, honourable coalition MPs, you have ministers, you have a number of tools to influence the work of supervisory councils and so on, after two years of government, you say that you want to investigate the Czech Post, although you are unable to state any particular reason, but you say we will be saving contracts for ten years in a situation where one of the companies that is close to one coalition party is allegedly being investigated by the police and so on. Can you tell me, Home Secretary - so you don't give information to coalition partners? Or aren't you able to say what's wrong with it as part of your supervisory advisors that you have in society? Because otherwise, it really gives the impression of some kind of power pressure for Members to operate the mail inside, if anyone needs to create some space to start threatening someone with one or the pressure to fear or not to worry about their place and the like. Maybe he didn't comply with something or he should comply with the future and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u25	I thank Mr Bendl. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u26	My previous speaker said something, but it can be described something like this. One government party thinks that the government is unable to obtain information about how the Czech Post works. I think the absurdity has already been described by many who have spoken on this matter today. Perhaps it would be understandable if she demanded some information from the opposition, which has no tools other than what she sees in the media. But the government has all the tools because it's not a private business! But it's a state enterprise! So, ANO colleagues, who are failing, what information do you not have? Who doesn't serve them to you? Who runs the Czech Post? It's run by the government, isn't it? You say the government doesn't run it! [[From the left side of the hall: Don't shout!]] Instead, the Chamber of Deputies must come and set up a committee of inquiry. We don't know what for, we many think it's not 300 meters of cubic fog, but much more. But we don't have any proof of that, so I'm not talking about it. But that's the only logical explanation that the government doesn't know what's going on in the Czech Post, and it wants to ask seven Members to do it, or how many committees of inquiry it has, and it will tell the government what's going on in the Czech Post. I don't know if you understand the absurdity of this approach. We don't. We didn't initiate it, we're just listening to the strange things that happen here. But since we already have the director here - the fact that the point is presented by the director of the Czech Post, doesn't that strike you as odd? Well, it seems weird to me. And that's nothing against the warden. It's against the procedure. But I learned from public sources that the Czech Post has filed a criminal complaint, it certainly doesn't matter, but I will be specific to some firm that allegedly tried to deliver a rigged opinion. So I would like to ask the director and use his presence to tell us which company they suspect and if the government is informed about it, and therefore its own Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u27	I thank Mr Stanjur. I ask the Members not to yell at other Members that they are screaming, that is why I am here. With another factual remark, Mr Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u28	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, if you're not aware, there are two points on that board. The first is Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the situation surrounding orders of the Czech Post. The second is only the committee of inquiry. Everyone's talking about the investigation committee. I don't know why. Why aren't we talking about the first point where, by the way, the government's head of the Czech Post is reporting information. So it's also slightly spicy that the head of the Czech Post gives information for the government, but it's probably the case today that business leaders, if they can already rule in this country, can report for the government. Well, that's the first one, if we've ever gotten any information. The second thing I'd like to draw attention to. There was no doubt about this government information. Then why does he keep talking about the investigation committee? What is the purpose of the investigation committee as set up. By the way, the assignment we have, if it says in the Rules of Procedure, contains the precise determination of the matter to be examined, so I argue that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Jermanová is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But we won't get to that until that second point. But what is the purpose? There's a company in the Agrofert group being prosecuted, and there's a mist to be created around it. So we're gonna set up a committee, probably not gonna elect its chairman again, but it's gonna say, yeah, once every six months, the commission starts saving in a year, and then it turns out that poor Agrotec is being framed, and that others should have been charged. Let the police and the D.A. investigate and don't invent fog.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u29	I thank Mr Benda. I have no further factual point. Now with priority right, Mr Laudát, after him Minister Chovanec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would therefore like to hear here information from the Czech Government about the situation of contracts in the Czech Post, state enterprise. If I'm gonna take what the CEO here said, he said the contracts have stricter rules, they're audited. If you have a problem with any contracts - I say, the Czech Post is not my topic - in the past, so what prevented you from imposing on the government the Interior Minister - or who actually, I don't know, I don't know the structure of who it is, but apparently the executive administrator is the Ministry of the Interior - to carry out an audit, and yet they are then obliged to give the relevant documentation, if they believe that the law has been broken, the police and that it is to do. I really think that you suggested that point, so we supported it, because we knew what was going on on on it, but if you threw a towel in the ring and let it go, but it's your proposal, you should download it, too. It's turning into an awkward situation. Of course, questions can be raised as to whether you do not want any of your Members to start getting their hands on data. As for what Mr. Koníček recited here, I don't know if it concerns the accusation of one of those companies of the era when the club president was in Agrotec or not. I really just don't envy anybody or wish them over, because the moment they get into the lift, I know how the Prague Council broke the charges for the opencart, and under this pressure it is hard to work. And you'll be surprised, I'm not interested, and I don't wish anyone to run this country in key positions, who then have other problems, and they don't really have a clear future in terms of criminal matters. I'm really very worried here, it would be an absolute precedent, because if you think that the police are not saving or saving, but here the government just didn't provide any information that would clearly indicate that the police were doing wrong, i.e. something she postponed, I don't know what, or that she wasn't doing in some particular case, that should probably be here at this point. And there was nothing here. Mr. Faltýnek here was talking about the fact that mail is key, now don't take my word for it, not everything I've picked up, and that it can't be harmed. Well, today's performance, and by calling a meeting in this form, you have incredibly damaged the český mail. Because it's questioning this institution with thousands of employees, how it fell here... And you really have to realize after almost two years, sometime in mid-January, I don't know what day, whether you were appointed to the government on the 19th or when. And you are responsible for the ten million inhabitants of this country, ten and a half. And just don't really play the games that you may have played in your private life, but here it's like the end of fun. I believe that - and what should we say in the past period when anti-corruption police intervened at the Office of the Government, then at Mrs Nagyová's, etc. We could say, question it, however, they simply have the legal right to act and to do so in these cases. I'm telling you, I don't wish that the company was charged. If the situation is serious, I think the Prime Minister should be here, too, because politically, I would ask him if he doesn't mind that he has the first Vice-President of the government who owns the company that's being charged and that the president of the second most powerful club and part of the government coalition were sitting in the company's statutory body. If he doesn't mind, because in the past we've been here for much smaller matters, I don't know how to put it politely, covered, and those were endless interpelations, performances, assigning extraordinary points, it was endless, but we accepted it because it's part of the political struggle. However, what you're doing here today... First of all, I'm afraid you're questioning the good name of the post office. Secondly, the chairman of the ANO Club cannot ask us why the Security Council has been convened. I don't know, and you can't ask a question to be asked here. It's a matter of government, and I hope she had good reasons. But we can't even know, so why are these questions falling here? And what prevents you from carrying out any audits in the past, after which the laws prescribe that there are some documents, are simply to be stored and available, then there are some limitation periods or something. But I'm saying, you're making a dangerous record of being accused of trying to access any data. There is nothing to prevent - because I know from the media again, I do not have any other information that may have been charged, so I assume that the lawyers will enter, and they can agree on what their witnesses have to say, or, similarly, they will publish or not publish with the defendants. I just don't know that. And actually say one thing. Firstly, where the information of the government of the Czech Republic around the orders of the Czech Post, is a state enterprise. [[19.10 hours]] On that second point, even if it wasn't, I would ask: In all cases that are running around the Czech Post, please tell us what doubts you have that the police or prosecutor is doing wrong in order to form a commission of inquiry. It was quite clear at the Opencard Commission - one and ten, because Mrs Udženija was not present. Ten, pardoning the unfortunates, attempted morally in the law a very positively defined case, virtually. Something the law can't handle to treat something like a rational economy, they tried to save a project that someone threw away and wasted 1.5 billion. Or how many. They did something and they were charged. Those who started the project are still not charged, so the first question mark founded the right to establish a commission of inquiry. And that's where the state institutions were already boarding, that is to say, state attorney or police, whether they were saving money or why they weren't saving money, and why the state prosecutor didn't order or run an investigation into what had happened since the opening of the Opencard, including the huge costs it cost. Two. Why the one who made the announcement and suggested cooperation became the defendant and I feel that even the convicted now. Why did those who voted on the council or did not vote on it at the time, she left someone with 1.5 billion rights to decide.? Why did she do that? Was she entitled to that? Did the council approve? [[Nesroz.]] decision-making elsewhere? And that's not where it happened. That's where the police worked, there were some prosecutors, etc., now it's in court. So there was simply a reason for legitimate doubt, and the Commission concluded that the applicant concerned should be charged with her activity, if I recall correctly. It was less obvious to me at the Blanka tunnel complex project for a simple reason. If the irrational management of the funds is so, the investor is the capital of Prague, it is the funds with which he has hl. m. Prague, and the capital city of Prague in the first phase should possibly set up its commission of inquiry, both in cases where it concerned him and had still his own policies, so did it, as in the case of the drowned subway after the floods in 2002, and it would be a shame if it turned to someone else. The police may have been saving up, saving up, I don't know, putting it off, but there were no accusations or suspicions that the state authorities were doing wrong. So there I hung a big question mark, whether this makes sense, if the city suspects, so in the first stage has a lot of officials, has the opportunity to order analysis, which I guess it does, and just first it should figure out the situation itself, possibly make a lawsuit or a criminal report. Then, if state institutions had not acted badly or were supposed to do wrong, there would have been suspicions or doubts, then Parliament should take up, set up a committee of inquiry and save the matter. In this case, really consider, if you interrupt this point and come here, I don't know, Minister of the Interior Chovanec in some time or someone who will bring information to the Government of the Czech Republic about the situation of contracts in the Czech Post, because, as the Director General has submitted it, everything is running so that the authorities active in criminal proceedings are doing and others are apparently in accordance with the law. Well, that's government information, but based on that, why are we setting up a committee of inquiry at this point? And I'm really worried that there's a living case that affects two specific people sitting in this House, and that's why I don't know which piárista told you to do it, but I consider it extremely unhappy for you as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u31	I thank Mr Laudát. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Stanjura and after him, the Minister. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u32	I don't know who's gonna answer that, but I have to ask the question. I have asked a specific question about the Czech Post's orders to the Director, and now I do not know, in a procedural manner, whether the Director will ever have the opportunity to answer or not, whether our questions, which are specific to this point, not to the committee of inquiry, will fall here or not. However, it is really smiling when the President of the Coalition Club asks the Chamber of Deputies why the Security Council of the State has been convened. I remember those caring faces of the Prime Minister and the two vice-premieres after the meeting of the State Security Council, as they said: the situation is serious, it was justified, we really had to deal with it, we did well. Perhaps you could tell yourself inside the coalition or within one government party - the information that is not subject to the secret regime, of course. But both the Prime Minister and both his vice-premieres were looking, and notice, they're not here! The State Security Council has been meeting for this. If someone wants to use an institution as special as the committee of inquiry, they're not here. They probably already told each other at the security board, and now we're supposed to play what, the rest of us? And the coalition wants most of it on that committee? But should the chairman be from the YES movement? I think it's logical, don't I? [[Laughter from the right.]] Definitely, says President Faltýnek, and I agree with him. In the very logic of the matter, those who can do it have the competence to pretend that they don't have the competence to do it and want to set up a committee of inquiry. I would suggest that we interrupt this point by the arrival of at least three members of the State Security Council, those who have informed the public to at least tell us the information that is not classified, and that they tell us why they need a committee of inquiry, why the government doesn't think it has enough competence and enough information to solve it, since the Security Council of the State has already dealt with it! That's government failure. At least that's what a government club thinks. I'm not saying government. A government club thinks so, which is probably why he asked to call this meeting. And we should ask those competent, Prime Minister, who called the meeting, and the two vice-premieres who wisely said: yes, it was necessary, the meeting was useful to tell us something and tell us what they couldn't handle, and then maybe we can help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u33	I don't want to stand up for the government too much, but the government will answer you, my dear colleagues, the moment it comes to it. Mr Laudát has now applied with a factual remark, so the Minister will not be able to see it again. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. I won't hold up. That's the farce you've raised. If you have any information resources from inside the right-wing opposition parties and you have reason to believe that we are going to or are thinking of calling an emergency meeting on this issue, that meeting would in no way concern us wanting information from the Ministry of the Interior or from the police or from the state attorney to the case. It would concern this and we would ask Prime Minister Sobotka if he doesn't mind that the first Deputy Prime Minister of the government is the owner of the company that was charged in a state contract, and the chairman of the coalition and the second strongest club is the man who sat in that era in the statutory bodies. And that's politics. But you here want something that goes into substance that has no equivalent in this House, at least not in the third period, I can swear it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u35	Excuse me, now with a point of fact -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u36	Mr Vice-President, I have proposed a temporary suspension of this point and I have expected that it will be voted on without debate. This has been said in my speech and I would like to vote on it at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u37	Absolutely. I didn't see your proposition, I'm sorry, I didn't hear it. We will therefore vote on Mr Stanjura's procedural proposal to interrupt this meeting. Please specify the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u38	Until the arrival of three members of the Security Council of the State to provide us with information about the situation of orders in the Czech Post, because, as Mr Fiedler showed me, in reply to his interpellation, the Prime Minister wrote to him that the Security Council of the State dealt with among others. the management of the state enterprise Česká pošta, and this certainly concerns the situation of contracts in the Czech Post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u39	Absolutely. Now we have three members of the Security Council of the State to arrive. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. The condition is three. [[Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec reports that he is also a member of the Security Council of the State.]] Minister, there's only one of you. I am opening the vote on the suspension of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the presence of three members of the Security Council of the State. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 4, 101 Members and Members registered, for 46, against 38. The motion was not accepted. We will continue the debate. With a factual point, Mr Koskuba is registered. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Mr. Ambassador, don't take this personally, they're not allowed to do it to you. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u40	Mr Vice-President, I can honestly admit that I understand this laughter quite well, because the House's actions, apart from the exceptions of honor, have been ridiculous since yesterday, especially thanks to some of our partners, and I don't mean the opposition now. [[A round of applause for Members of the ODS.]] Of course, I am now giving up my factual point. I really just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that there was a procedural proposal, and I expected it to be accepted because I find the negotiations extremely strange. I think I'm going to use this unusual form to apologize from the next House meeting, because I didn't understand him very well, and I don't really know what we're supposed to get to. And since the time has passed and we will close the hypermarkets on a government proposal etc., I think that at least one day a week I can arrive home before 9:00 p.m., and I do not believe that the security of the state is threatened by a point that, not with my consent, has been placed on today's program. I wish you a pleasant nightly meeting, and I look forward to seeing what you've actually worked out tomorrow. I don't know, just good luck!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u41	I thank Mr Koskuba. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Němcová and Mr Laudát. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask you how you intend to continue to manage this meeting, because this item is called Information of the Government on the situation of contracts in the Czech Post. We didn't get any government information. If the government's information debate is to be launched, then tell me what will be discussed by those who are enrolled in the debate, how this meeting is to continue, so that the embarrassment and despair that the coalition is doing here today in a completely insane form ends without the complete shame of the Chamber of Deputies. I really don't want to be a part of this, this isn't a part of watching anymore. If you want to start a lawsuit one bunch at a time inside the coalition, you need to prepare it a little bit, you need to know what you're coming up with, you need to be able to convince us and the citizens, and not make it into a cabaret like this. You just can't look at that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, apparently it's because I've been a number of years, and I think it's been 18 and a half years, he's shared a political party with Mrs. Němcová, so she's connected to my neural networks, so I'm not going to repeat what she said. However, I am giving a procedural proposal for the meeting to be interrupted until the information of the Czech Government on the situation of contracts in the Czech Post, a state enterprise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u45	I'm sorry, but such a suggestion is quite pointless. Obviously, here the Minister is going to give information to the government, unfortunately, with factual remarks, you're getting ahead of him. Please allow the Minister to speak, then you will learn the Government's information. I'm sorry. With a factual remark, Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador. [[From the diaper: Does he have government information?]] My colleague has no government information, but he has a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u46	I don't have the government's information. I believe neither does the government minister who goes to the State Security Council. [[Big noise in the boardroom.]] As my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura mentioned earlier, I quote the reply to my written interpelation, which was not primarily about mail, concerning the security situation in the context of the migration wave and the meeting of the Security Council of the State, however, Prime Minister Sobotka replied to me by his letter of 18 September 2015: the Security Council Bureau of the State - now I leave out - is composed of the President of the Security Council of the State, the First Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance - and I also leave out -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u47	I'm sorry. Quiet in the House, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u48	And I'm asking for an extension of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u49	Yes, I'll take that under advisement. Please calm down, or you won't hear the important information from the Prime Minister's letter. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u50	Again, the Security Council of the State is composed of the President of the Security Council, the First Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, etc. etc. etc., and the Minister of Defence. If I read correctly, there are two ministers from the ANO movement who took part in the Security Council of the State. And I'm really wondering why Mr. Faltýnek here says that they have absolutely no idea what was going on there and what was going on there. I don't know if Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš goes there and doesn't work, or what happened on the Security Council of the State when the two ministers for the YES movement on this Security Council of the State were reading here from the Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. The Minister may be eager, but I still have two factual points, the first Mr Stanjura, after whom Mrs Havlová. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u52	I would like to help the House in this difficult situation. Therefore, I have a procedural proposal to suspend this meeting by 6 November 2015.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-001-001.u53	This is the procedural proposal that we will be voting on. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. Initiating vote on the suspension of this meeting until November 6th... Excuse me, I'm sorry, I declare this vote misguided... [[It is waiting for a sufficient number of Members to sign up.]] I see that the 67 votes have not been reached. [[Members applied for]] Since at least one third of the votes of Members have not been reached, I am interrupting this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Meet me tomorrow at 9:00. Have a good evening.
