ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u1	140. Information from the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Regional Development on the financing of the European Funds monitoring system I ask that Mr Petr Adam take the floor on this point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, our esteemed colleagues, we are gathered here, thanks to a good agreement of the MPs, to discuss the entire case, so allow me to summarize the whole matter at once and talk about it. As opposition politicians, we are quite surprised by what is happening. It's a pretty rusty theater, throwing over a hot potato, which we're all likely to pay for. The case starts by: The Ministry of Finance, led by First Deputy Lukáš Wagenknecht, audited the state of the monitoring system of European subsidies. The audit concluded that the monitoring system was overpriced. There is a suspicion of fraudulent conduct and a cartel agreement in the preparation of the selection of the supplier. This conclusion was also reached by the European Commission, which is examining it. And if they think the system is untrustworthy, then the question is what happens next. Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová responds to this audit by the Ministry of Finance. I quote: The application of the monitoring system has now stopped the audit report of the audit authority, which has already been mediated last week. We do not agree with the conclusions of this audit as the Ministry of Regional Development. In our opinion, this is a unprofessional and poorly done job that damages the interests of the Czech Republic. I also quote to the Minister: Without this system, the Czech Republic cannot draw funds from the European Union amounting to CZK 650 billion. The system is crucial and the first calls have been announced so that the managing authorities can input data into it. This only proves that the problem is really extremely serious, and everyone is aware of it. I also quote Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka: I am very concerned about the complications surrounding the monitoring system of European funds. I expect the Minister of Finance Babiš and the Minister for Regional Development Šlechtová resolve the problem professionally and promptly, when they inform the government on Wednesday of such a process by their authorities, so that the already prepared start of drawing on the new European operational programmes is not compromised. I can imagine that the concerned Prime Minister is a very serious report for the citizens of this country. But not only is the Prime Minister concerned. The entire government is concerned that subsidies are at risk. What happened next. Minister Babiš requested assurances from his deputy, Lukáš Wagenknecht, that the audit was of good quality. Then Minister Šlechtová formally lodged a complaint with the Minister of Finance Andrea Babiš for the audit, who was also requested to review the final audit report by the audit authority. He says about this - I quote again: I believe that an independent expert legal assessment will be initiated. The entire government will deal with the critical situation on Monday. He is probably pulling the emergency brake at the last minute and decides that the European Union funds monitoring system will pay the State and not the European Union. Sorry. Not the state - all of us, citizens of the Czech Republic will pay for this problem. This would save the drawing of hundreds of billions of crowns. According to Prime Minister Sobotka, the government is moving forward so that the functionality of this monitoring system is not compromised and calls can be put in place as soon as the respective operational programmes are approved. So the questions are: is the monitoring system really overpriced, as the Ministry of Finance claims? Has there been a fraudulent negotiation and a cartel agreement, as the Treasury claims? Was the audit unprofessional and poorly carried out work, as the Ministry of Regional Development claims? How did the Ministry of Finance stand up to the Ministry of Regional Development's complaint? And the final question: who is responsible for this? Because if I understand correctly, it will cost us at least hundreds of millions of crowns. I can't forgive myself for one short comment in conclusion. At the time of the election, Minister Babiš said that as a wave of magic, he would find 60 billion crowns in the state budget. But today it is clear that there is no economic Harry Potter in the Czech Republic. Rather, it sometimes resembles the awkward magic of the magician Pokuston, but unfortunately, after emptying the magic hat, the citizens will be left with Bob and Bobek at the most. And I assure you, it's not gonna be white bunnies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u3	I thank Mr Adam and with a little apology, because the Member has now come to change the agenda. If you wish, Madame, to propose a change of schedule, you still have 23 minutes. I beg you to do so. Please, Mrs Zelienková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'm very sorry. I would like to ask the House for a fixed classification of point 310, association agreement with Ukraine, to 20. 5. after Parliament's press of the Higher Education Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u5	Thank you. That's all. Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u6	Mr Vice-President, I object to your action. We're in the middle of a point, we can't propose changes to the program. I'm sorry. After the end of that point, the House may consider, where appropriate, whether exceptional circumstances have occurred and that the programme may be changed quite exceptionally. At this point, it's just not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u7	Thank you. However, I respect this objection. I've consulted her on legislation. If it is not, then the procedure is possible, if there is an objection, I will vote on the objection without debate. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on Mr Stanjura's objection to my procedure, so that the Member - pardon, there is a request for withdrawal. So I consider this vote confusing. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. [[11.10 hours]] I am opening the vote on the opposition to the President's procedure by Mr Stanjura. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? It is vote number 74, registered 119 Members of Parliament, for 68, against 16. Objection received. We will therefore not vote on what Mrs Zelienková has proposed, we will continue the programme. I now ask that the information given by Mr Adam on this point be expressed gradually first by the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and then by the Minister of Regional Development Karla Šlechtová. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the information and monitoring system of the Structural Funds, the MS2014+ application, serves for the substantive and financial monitoring of all projects and operational programmes for the new programming period, the obligation to use such an information system in each Member State is laid down by direct applicable regulations. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] The MMR monitoring system records information throughout the cycle of individual projects and provides summary information on the substantive and financial progress of operational programmes. In the operational programme Technical assistance is allocated EUR 95 million to this information system, which is about CZK 2.5 billion. This amount includes not only the operation, management and development of MS2014+, but also consultancy and training and training -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u9	I apologise, Minister, but I dare to call on the honourable Members of Parliament to remain calm and to listen to the Minister of Finance. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u10	In September 2011, Prime Minister Nečas' government commissioned the MMR to prepare the monitoring system. 31. 8. 2012 was announced a tender for the acquisition of the MS2014+ application, which on 6. 6. 2013 resulted in the signing of a work contract for the delivery of this application for Minister Kamil Jankovský with the company Tesco SW, a.s., which is currently led by Josef Tesařík, Chairman of the Board of Directors. The audit authority of the Ministry of Finance carried out an audit of the monitoring system in question on the basis of the European Commission's request of 3 October 2014 and the European Commission requested the performance audit and verification of all selection and delivery procedures for public contracts in order to ensure the legality and regularity of the relevant expenditure. The results of the audit are findings consisting in particular of suspected fraud, cartel agreement of tenderers, non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act. I would like to say that the Ministry of Finance and therefore I, as the Minister of Finance, are not entitled to intervene in the performance of the audit authority and, in order to maintain this independence, it is not possible for me to carry out an assessment that would result in a change in the outcome of the audit in question. At the same time, I state that the assessment of the case will take place following the activities of the competent authority of the financial administration and, where appropriate, of the law enforcement authority. Any non-standard intervention by my person as Minister of Finance in audit reports, or efforts to re-evaluate them, would be highly likely to be seen as political interference with the independence of the audit. In the event of such serious findings, it is common practice for other audits that the competent authority of the financial administration shall carry out its investigations, on the basis of which it shall determine the final, by law enforceable correction. If there is a suspicion of a criminal offence, then the police will also automatically take the initiative. In parallel with the activities of the Czech Republic, the audit report is assessed in Brussels. The European Commission also has the full opinion of the MMR at its disposal. The audit of the European Commission shall either confirm the finding of the Czech audit authority in full, or it may become milder or may not be able to identify with the audit authority's output at all. At its meeting on 27 April 2015, the Government of the Czech Republic agreed on the current situation in the management of the operation and development of the ESI Funds monitoring system, the MS2014+ application, and ordered the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Regional Development to submit material with a proposal for financing the MS2014+ application from the state budget without delay. Let me say that the Government has approved this decision as a backup option in case there is no way to maintain co-financing from European funds. What is currently crucial in terms of ensuring the possibility of announcing calls in the coming weeks by the managing authorities is the functionality of the system. Currently declared provision of MS2014+ functionality from national means. The Ministry of Finance continues to look for a way to maintain full or partial co-financing from European funds, as it is not clear that the European Commission will confirm the incapacity of expenditure following the results of the audit report on the monitoring system. Like the Minister for Regional Development, I share the view that the agreement on MS2014+ is valid, and in this respect nothing prevents the fact that the European Union funds are drawn up. Finally, on this issue, on 11 May in Brussels, I have a meeting with the Commissioner, who has the competence to do so. [[unintelligible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u11	Thank you, Minister of Finance. I will now ask the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová to comment on this point. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on this information, which has been particularly included in today's House meeting. I would like to mention that yesterday the first OP PIK operational programme, the Enterprise for Innovation and Competitiveness operational programme, was approved despite what is happening with the monitoring system. This means that the government, our officials, but also we, the top representatives of the ministries, are trying to communicate with the European Commission as much as possible about our efforts, to approve operational programmes. The fact that the first operational programme was approved yesterday is a very, very positive report for us. I will simply mention that if there is no monitoring system, there are no funds and why. It is because this system is the only one that now exists in the Czech Republic, in which challenges can be inserted, which will monitor everything, aggregate data to tell us what the funds were for. In a certain year, 2010-2011, the government approved a so-called unified methodological environment. That means everything will be unified. Including a single central monitoring system. We all know that in the current period 2007 to 2013, there were monitoring systems under the Ministry of Finance, the so-called Benefil, and under the MIT, the so-called eAccount. Since everything is centralizing, everything falls under this one monitoring system. So any step that should prevent the operation or launch of the sharp operation of this system is, of course, negative in that there are no challenges. At the moment, the Ministry of Regional Development guarantees that the monitoring system is operational. This system was put into sharp operation several months ago. The Ministry of Regional Development has trained about 2,000 people, a thousand people from the governing bodies, some of them, roughly 250, are trained to continue training for this system. I would just like to say that this system is simpler than the original one for the period 2007 to 2013. [[11.20 hours]] I would also like to mention here that the resolution of the Government of 12 June 2013 by the Minister for Regional Development was designated as a national body for the coordination and implementation of the Partnership Agreement and the Minister of Finance, respectively. The Ministry of Finance was designated by the audit authority and the paying and certifying authority. This resolution is, of course, still in force. As regards the whole audit situation and the status of the monitoring system. I am very glad, I am very glad that our government has been very responsible for this situation, although it may not be very clear. The government did not approve on Monday that the monitoring system would be covered by the state budget in its entirety. We could not even approve this because we do not have the final position of the European Commission. The audit ended 30. 3. i.e. since then, given that there are serious errors mentioned here, i.e. suspected fraud, cartel, criminal activity, overpriced, this must, of course, be investigated by the competent authorities. Among other things, this case is solved by anti-corruption police, which 19. 3. came to the Ministry of Regional Development an hour before we received physically from the audit authority the first audit authority report just to the monitoring system. I personally hope and count and cooperate with the Police of the Czech Republic to resolve this case as soon as possible, of course. We are available slowly daily because the Police of the Czech Republic additionally requires various data. That's one thing. The responsibility must be determined by this case on the part of the anti-corruption police. I think we know, and it was also mentioned here that the first contract for the monitoring system was commissioned... The tender procedure was prepared in 2012, the winner of this competition was contracted in 2013. It was under the reign of Mr. Nečas. And there's the biggest mistake. In this contract. So our government solves the past, solves the remains that we have here. Neither I nor the Minister of Finance could do anything but tell the government what the state of the audit is and what the government has to do. The government has approved one thing, and I would like to set it straight, because even the media interprets what we have approved in a completely different way. The government has approved that since the audit ended, it basically means that there are such serious errors, i.e. The fraud, the cartel and the others, it's run as an irregularity, it's run as an unfit expense. And since the entire contract has been financed and pre-financed and is forecasted in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development from European sources, and if this has been carried out since 30. 3. as an irregularity, incompetence, I have asked the government on the basis of the outcome of this audit to empower me to continue with the supplier because the contract with Tesco is valid. And in order to avoid arbitration in this case from this company, we as the Czech Republic need to cover the state budget from that point on. 3. from the end of the audit further service with this company. This means that I am now obliged on the basis of the final audit report delivered to us by 10. 4. inform the competent authorities of the irregularity. I am obliged to inform, respectively. submit the total information to the Financial Authority in order to determine the correction itself. The audit authority proposes adjustments for individual contracts in various percentages, totaling 252 million. But the government didn't approve of covering 252 miles. The government has approved that since the end of the audit, we can - I can - the Ministry of Regional Development can continue with the supplier in a given contract, which is payable and valid. If I interrupt any contact with the supplier, the Czech Republic may, of course, threaten sanctions and arbitration from this company. I, under the State Property Act, have to comply with Section 14 with the care of a proper economy, and I will not, nor will our government, which acts responsibly, increase the state deficit of our budget, which would have happened if I had not put the material on the government so that I should have covered that what was to be financed from the EU's resources might not actually be. If the European Commission, which is the last instance organization, determines that it does not agree with the audit report, the money we approved on Monday will, of course, be converted back into the European window and paid from European sources. So I'm really going against what's in the media here. The government didn't approve of us paying for the correction. The government has approved that since the end of the audit, as we are obliged to do, we will pay the rest of the state budget contract. As for other things, I would like to mention here that I have to go to 15. 5. inform all authorities about the very irregularities, i.e. Ministry of Finance, Audit Authority, Payment Certification Authority, also Financial Authorities. The Financial Authority will, of course, also decide whether to identify itself with those objections in the audit report. And, of course, subsequently, I have to file a complaint with the Antimonopoly Office regarding the findings of the audit authority. I want to do this without delay, but of course we have been waiting for this debate here in the House. So it's kind of for the audit. I would like to mention that, of course, the audit should have done a performance audit. We've received an audit for public contracts. That's one thing. Another thing is that the European Commission does not want to approve the Technical Assistance Operational Programme, because one priority axis from the Technical Assistance 2 operational programme is concerned with the whole monitoring system. However, we haven't slept in the last two weeks, nor have I. I am in contact with the Commissioner, I am in contact with other Euro Commissioner, I am in contact with other top officials on the European Commission. So far, we are in agreement with the European Commission that there is a chance that the Commission will approve this programme. Just so you know, all the people who make funds are funded from this program. If this program is not approved, we will be asking for more money from the state budget so that we can launch the funds at all. So we have agreed with the European Commission and we ask the Commission to approve the OPTP 2 with the fact that until this case is resolved, it may take several months, so the European Commission, if we make a note to the opera, that we are aware that this priority axis will not be reimbursed by the European Commission until this is resolved and until the European Commission has given its final opinion on the audit report, this programme could be approved by the European Commission. So the whole problem is very complex. It is not the fight of the Minister of Regional Development or the Minister of Finance. We are now dealing with a situation that we have to deal with together. We both found a solution that we presented to the government, and that is that we process legal and IT assessments on all contractual relations with the company. Personally, I'm the Ministry of Regional Development... We will, of course, process the possibilities that the contract with Tesco gives us, what we can continue to do, because at this point in time any testimony - of course there is a certain number of months when we should terminate the contract... Just imagine the situation, if that gesturer who's in charge of the monitoring system has now declared a contract with the only contractor who manages it. There is no other supplier that now - at this time, without us approving all the operas without starting to give the first call to be able to take over. [[with emphasis]] So at this point, I, as a proper caretaker, must proceed according to a valid contract. The only thing we've approved is that since there's been an irregularity, it will then be financed from the state budget, or from that 30. 3. 10. 4. when the final audit report was delivered to us. That's all for now. I hope I was able to explain the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u13	I thank the Minister for Regional Development. I am launching a general debate in which Mr Miroslav Kalousek was the first to sign up with a written application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u14	Thank you. I would like to thank both members of the government for the information they provided. Obviously, they were able to agree that the Nečasův government was responsible for everything, and now poor people are just dealing with the consequences. Let's just say the whole truth and the real one, and there are only two variations. Now I don't want to judge the audit carried out by the Ministry of Finance or the work on the monitoring system carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development. I would just like to repeat some brief facts. The Ministry of Regional Development applied a total of 21 controls and audits to the monitoring system between July 2012 and October 2014, not only for Minister Jankovský but also for Minister Lukl, for Minister Jourová and for Minister Šlechtová, 21 audits and audits, which found nothing that would call into question the transparency of this contract. I would only like to read the conclusion of one of the last audits, where the expert institute was invited. The conclusion of this audit was July 2014. And the final report states: "The scholar found nothing to suggest that the procurement documents or trading conditions were incomprehensible, discriminatory or non-discriminatory. The expert notes that the expected maximum price of performance corresponds to the prices normal at the place, time and performance.' That's an audit carried out on behalf of Secretary Noble. In other words, a year and a half, sorry, two and a half years, the Ministry of Regional Development tells the government, the Chamber of Deputies and the public that it continuously controls and everything is perfectly fine there. Then comes the higher power, comes the audit authority of the Ministry of Finance and processes the audit. I'm not going to repeat all the doubts I have about preparing this audit, but after all, I don't have to bother you with my doubts, just reading the statement of the Ministry of Regional Development, quite extensive, for this audit. It's a document that has a total of 48 pages, and I think that each of us should read it. And if I sum up, I've done a little bit of annotating the 48 pages so I don't hold you back, so the Ministry of Regional Development says to the Ministry of Finance's audit: The findings aren't supported or supported by any evidence. The formal findings are distorted, the report does not contain recommendations for correction, which are normally part of audit reports. Auditors import infringements which are not imposed by the law. In many cases, the audit authority demonstrates the elementary ignorance of the Public Procurement Act. The audit team that worked on the report kept changing and complementing it without some auditors having a written mandate to carry out the audit. And it was involved in the audit as both an advisor and an external company, where, given the ambiguous identification of specific persons, bias cannot be excluded due to other business activities in this company in the field of IT procurement. - That's roughly what he says, and even more so, it's traceable from open sources, which is roughly what the Ministry of Regional Development says about the quality of the Ministry of Finance's audit. I don't want to get into the ratings. I've read the audit, I've seen the list of auditors that have all come to the Ministry of Finance in 2014, and I'm very prone to believe the statement of the Ministry of Regional Development. But I don't want to put myself in the role of an arbiter. I'm just saying, this is a very strange situation. In any case, we have two options ahead of us. Either the Ministry of Finance's audit is right, and then the government stood up to it by saying, "The contract is crazy according to our audit, there's been fraud, and that's why we'd rather pay it out of taxpayers' money so that we can quickly get European money for the other frauds we want to do. That's what the government said. She didn't říci, "We have ambition to fix it!" It's kind of clinky, and we're gonna fix it, 'cause we're not like politicians, but we're working. It's jingle, we're gonna sweep it under the rug, and we're gonna pay it out of taxpayers' money, so we can't, for God's sake, be allowed to do any more of the jingle tender money we're waiting for. That's variant 1. Or variant 2. The government said, we realize that the audit is clinky, that it is completely unprofessional. The question is whether in terms of professionalism, incompetence, or whether it was a purpose action. But since we cannot afford to challenge our own audit authority, we will sweep it under the carpet, pay it out of taxpayers' money and see what the European Commission has to say. Well, what would the European Commission say? The European Commission, which has a standard cash flow problem, is impressed that something does not have to pay when we state ourselves. That's perfectly logical. Each of us would have done the same thing in the position of a competent official in the European Commission. Why should they say, "No, no, Czech Republic, you're wrong! You guys are all right in there! We want to pay you! No one in the Czech Republic or in European offices is doing this at all. So I don't think so, and here I don't blame the government for knowing exactly how it is. I think she decided to go this way, and I'm saying it's just two of these possible options. And they're both horrible. Either after two and a half years, when the Ministry of Finance declared 21 checks that everything was perfectly fine and transparent, suddenly someone comes in and says, "It's a scam, it's a tinkle - and he's right. And the government says, there's nothing we can do, it's a scam, it's a tinkle, but we don't want to fix it, we're gonna keep doing it, and we're gonna fund a tinkle and cheating tender out of our own money. That's variant 1. Variant 2 is that the Ministry of Regional Development was right for two and a half years, the 21 controls and audits are right, Jourová was right, Šlechtová was right, Lukl was right when he said everything was perfectly okay there. And it's backed up by 21 audit checks. And it's not right, Babiš, who sent it to Brussels, that it's jingle and that it's crooked. And in order not to question Babiš and the Ministry of Finance's audit authority, we're just saying, yes, the Ministry of Finance audit is right. That is not something with which the Chamber of Deputies should or could be satisfied within its supervisory powers. We can't say, "We, government, agree that it's either wrong A or wrong B, but just do it somehow, let's not talk about it too much." When the two ministries, not only one government, but even one government party, did not have enough responsibility and competence to explain such fundamental contradictions in the finding or in the view of this contract itself, whether at expert or political level, when this inability to communicate, coordinate, act now visibly damaged the Czech Republic, and now I am not looking for guilt on the site of the Ministry of Finance or Local Development, but certainly the failure to cooperate, the inability to coordinate and the inability to explain the comments already at this moment, we need to know how it was, and in this sense - please know that the rapporteur has prepared some resolutions. Not a judgmental one, but a desire to find out the true state of affairs. I'm not gonna mess with him. I'm just saying in advance that we shouldn't resign to finding out what's going on. I just refuse to settle for it: the government is acting responsibly, it's going to work out somehow. Let's just remember that it's Nečasův' government that's behind it and that we can draw on it. But that we have progressed in between two and a half years, one or the other party, either the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Regional Development, most irresponsiblely and damaged the Czech Republic as a result of hundreds of millions of orders, let us not talk about it now. Let's get to work! This simply is not a position with which the Chamber of Deputies can, in my opinion, be satisfied. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u15	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Just a heads-up, there's a fixed point at 11:45, so I may have to interrupt you, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u16	Mr Vice-President, I think it's 12.45, but I don't want to argue. [[President Gazdík: Feel free to argue, it's at 11.45 and 12.45.]] I might be able to make it. I took those notes a lot less than the Secretary of State. If you look, I don't have that kind of shamon with me. Why did we meet? As the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Local Development described it, it could run as if normally in order to work. We meet because the Minister had a dramatic press conference where she said that hundreds of billions of Czech crowns were at risk, that she was disturbing the trip to China and that it would save. I don't think that was true. There was no threat from what they said. The contract is valid, the system is functional, the checks were carried out, we trained two thousand employees. If the contract is valid, I haven't read it, is there a clause that only pays if it's European money? It was probably threatening and threatening that it would not be European money, but Czech money. I think that's a threat. That follows from both shows. But there has never been 650 billion losses, but it is a popular method of many managers and many politicians. I'm gonna create a problem that doesn't exist, and then I'm gonna solve it loudly. I ask, what, then, was at risk, how would we not exhaust the 650 billion by 2022, and what did you do besides say that if there was no European money, it would be paid by the state budget? Sounds like a standard solution to me, nothing innovative, nothing surprising. Of course, we learned that it was Nečasův' government because it was signed as Minister Jankovský about seven days before the government fell. That's certainly true, it was signed on June 6th, if I remember correctly the Secretary's speech. But at the same time, she said it was valid, functional, reliable and guaranteed. That's what needs to be read to the government, before the last time, that something that's functional, valid, reliable, everyone's trained to do it, and we can run it. Minister Jankovský, I don't want to defend him, but he wasn't on the selection committee. It's not usual for ministers to go to the selection committee, it's completely non-standard. But his Deputys went there and at least two members of the selection committee, then Deputy Minister Jankovský, are in the service of the ANO movement today. One, former Deputy Director Braun, is with Commissioner Jourová in Brussels, the other is with the Ministry of Finance, former Deputy Minister Sixta. They were on the selection committee. Then don't say it was the Minister who didn't sit there. And the people sitting there serve with you. If the Minister is right, it's okay if it's functional, valid, satisfactory. But the suspicions are extremely serious. It is clear that these are ineligible expenditures, but if a fraud or cartel agreement is proved, I ask what will happen to the monitoring system, what will be the approach of the Czech government when it is proven. If you can't prove it, it's easy. The audit unit failed completely, Minister Šlechtová was right, professionalism and all the adjectives that fell in the past days and weeks. Of course, we will not influence this in the Chamber of Deputies. Let's just say why we're discussing this today. Because someone gave the impression of a huge crisis to solve it in ten days. That could have been solved from Čína, Madam Secretary. I'm convinced of that. To say that if there is no European money, that it is a backup option, that we will pay it from the state budget, it is really standard, it is experienced by almost all beneficiaries of European subsidies, which have been corrected and some reduction, that it was not 75%, but in the end 73 or 70, that some expenditure has proved to be incompetent. This, of course, did not result in a subsidy being paid to its suppliers, as in this case. So these are my questions. What were we in danger of? And such a simple solution that if Brussels doesn't pay for it, will Prague pay for it, so we saved 650 billion? We could have saved two trillion with such a simple solution. That's what bothers me. I must say, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, that Deputy Director Wagenknecht was there, I have already said it, he seemed absolutely confident, convincing and said: Everything went as it should, I stand by it, it is not true that they did not have time, instead of five days I gave the MMR ten days, above-standard time to give their comments. He thus spoke to the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets took note of that. It's okay. We came, we asked, he gave us the information. At the same time, however, the Ministry of Regional Development claims otherwise. The government seems to have solved it. She didn't solve anything. Vice-President, it's 11:45, if I just apply one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-002-140.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for making things easier for me. I am very sorry to the Minister, too, but the Chamber of Deputies put item 11.45 in a firm position. 86, which is why I am interrupting item No. 140 pending the discussion of point No 86. Item
