ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u1	59. Government bill amending Act No. 503/2012 Coll., on the State Land Office and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 575/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Marian Jurečka was to submit a proposal, which will be represented today by Minister Daniel Herman. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, allow me, on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, to present the Government's bill amending Act No. 503/2012 Coll., on the State Land Office and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws. The aim of the proposal is to ensure proper and cost-effective management of agricultural land held by the State. To this end, Law No 503/2012 Coll., on the State Land Office, as amended, proposes a new way of defining and dividing the reserve of state agricultural land and adjusting the conditions under which the State Land Office manages this reserve. Newly, all land with which the State Land Office is competent to manage and is necessary for the exercise of its competence, while the total minimum size of these land must not fall below 50,000 hectares. Within the scope of its competence, the State Land Office shall, in particular, make the land adjustments necessary following the changes made in legal relations with land after restitution and privatisation. To this end, the State Land Office will supplement the reserve of state agricultural land by purchasing, exchanging and exploiting the pre-emptive law of the State. The provision of state agricultural land also includes the land needed for the implementation of development programmes of the State, which are defined under the current regulation by Government Regulation No. 218/2014 Sb. This part of the reserve should be adjusted on an ongoing basis according to the future needs of the State or ministries in the framework of the administrative procedure, on the basis of which entries in the real estate register will then be made for the land concerned. In Law No 229/1991 Coll., on the modification of property relations with land and other agricultural assets, as amended, the State Agricultural Land Administration and the limited possibility of offering land in public offers to satisfy the remaining restitution claims in the form of the provision of substitute land, it proposes to limit possible forms of compensation only to cash compensation. This amendment in the relevant provisions of Act No. 229/1991 Coll. it has delayed efficiency by two years. The reason for deferred efficiency is to draw out all the possibilities that the State has to satisfy the rights of entitled persons, that is to say, in the form of the provision of substitute land. At the same time, it is proposed that a period of 10 years be set for the exercise of the remaining claims on the refund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u4	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my report on the Government Bill amending Act No. 503/2012 Coll., on the State Land Office and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, House printing 575. The Government submitted a draft law to the House on 25. 8th of this year. The bill was sent to Members as press on 575 on 25. 8th of this year. The Organizing Committee recommended the discussion of the draft law on 3. 9. 2015 under resolution 188. He identified the rapporteur . Petr Kudela and proposed the agricultural committee as a guarantee. The aim of the bill is to ensure proper and economic management of land owned by the State and the jurisdiction of management for the State Land Office. It is proposed that the new competence of the State Land Office be introduced as the manager of the State Land Reserve, which is entitled to dispose of these land in the context of the creation and sustainability of the State Land Reserve. By adopting the proposed amendments to Act No. 503/2012 Coll., Act on Soil, Act No. 139/2002 Coll. and Act No. 92/1991 Coll. the size of the State land necessary for the implementation of the development programmes of the State approved by the Government and for the land arrangements required following changes in legal relations with the land after restitution and privatisation will be maintained. The State Land Administration will establish a reserve for the implementation of state development programmes approved by the government to be managed, supplemented and amended by the State Land Office as necessary in the framework of administrative proceedings. The State Land Office will have the option, or the obligation, to supplement the reserve to maintain the necessary premises by purchasing, exchanging and using pre-emptive rights in order to limit the cost of purchase of land for the purpose of the State. The implementation of a special pre-emptive right linked solely to the sale of state land since 1999 will be cleared by tightening the conditions for the procedure of owners to accelerate the transfer of the land issued back into the State's ownership. Due to the inability to offer eligible persons, some half of whom still have the right to transfer the replacement plot to a price of CZK 1000, the substitute plot corresponding to the price, and the still decreasing scope of the offers of suitable land at the same cost, the remaining refunds will in principle be granted exclusively in money. Another reason for submitting this proposal is that, following the composition of the bail, the remaining unnecessary buildings, buildings or their files, which are immovable items, will be sold in the tender for the most appropriate tender, so that the process will be reduced and financial and administrative savings will be made. With the exception of land for housing buildings, the municipalities will be transferred free of charge to the built-up or stopable part of the community for public utility buildings, for public greenery and the like. The conditions for the transfer of road land to municipalities and regions will not change. The land designated by the final decision on the location of the construction for the benefit of the municipality will be transferred to the municipalities for remuneration. The conditions for the transfer of land to agricultural entrepreneurs shall be maintained. The conditions for free transfers of road land to municipalities and regions will also remain unchanged. In Law No 139/2002 Coll. several provisions will be clarified in the light of experience from practice. The State Land Office will continue to submit privatisation projects, but the implementation will already take place in the Ministry of Finance. In this context, the transfer of funds received in the account of the State Land Office to the special account of the Ministry of Finance is also resolved. [[18.00 hours]] End of závěr. The adoption of the proposed legislation will ensure the necessary reserve of state land to fulfil the task of the State Land Office and for State development programmes approved by the Government. The draft law has already been discussed in the open debate at the Agriculture Committee with the participation of representatives of the State Land Office and Deputy Ministers of Agriculture. So much for my message.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u5	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I'll read the note. Today, from 19 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Milan Urban apologizes. Today, from 19.15 to the end of the day, Mrs Nytrová and Mr Šincl apologize for reasons of work. I am now opening a general debate in which I am registering one application from Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor. Mr. Pavera will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, let me also say a few words about this bill, which actually solves two issues. He's dealing with restitution. And it solves, in the material and in the explanatory report, how many people, in what amount of funds the restitution relates to. It is true that this number is gradually shrinking, and in this regard we are supposed to have some conclusion. But it is more a question for lawyers who move in the area of constitutional law, whether it is possible, those who have their legitimate restitution claims and still are not for various reasons, often not guilty of their cause, are not satisfied whether they turn to the Constitutional Court, whether there will be any reduction or attack of this law from the point of view of constitutional law, because we are already saying that although the state has substitute land and there are still dozens of people who have restitution claims in the order of millions of crowns, whether this cannot be used to abolish some passages of this bill. I don't understand that much, but I think there should be certainty that this bill will not be called into question. I understand that the Minister of Culture and, as at this time, the petitioner, the representative of the state representing the Minister of Agriculture, whom we do not have here, will not be able to answer that, and I respect that completely. Nevertheless, at least in the third reading, I would ask the petitioner's assurance that there is no concern about this. The second part is much more complex and also more important from the point of view of the future. We spent quite a lot of time on the agricultural committee, because what exactly is the state planning? The State Land Office is to become a kind of land bank, where the central state authorities or ministries block their land and river in the Czech Republic: We will need them for this or that in the future. Question -- who's gonna check it out? And if this land, which any state authority has blocked, is to be used for anything, it will be decided under the administrative decision-making and administrative procedure whether or not it will be used. This means that if I simplify, the Czech Republic will want to continue to extend or build the R35 expressway or to extend the D1 motorway, it will deal with farmers or landowners who are along these roads, or they would have land in the territory where these roads will lead, state to them through probably the Road and Motorway Directorate or the Ministry of Transport or any other central state body will offer land, and because they may not have land in the area where the construction will take place, for example, the land owner of the territory, let's say, the Kralovehradecky Region, will be offered land, for example, in Karlovy Vary region or Plzeň region, and all this under the administrative procedure, that is in the regime where the person concerned may always apply to this administrative procedure. I note that these are government priority projects, which means projects that should not take too long. At the moment when we plunge into the system that the land will be unblocked under the administrative procedure, we face the great hope that these government priorities, whoever governs in the future, will take a very long time to implement them. And I'm not even talking about speculating whether to use attractive land in Karlovy Vary, Brno, it doesn't really matter where, because some particular official is going to go there and offer it to a specific owner, through whom he should be able to communicate or land adjustments should be made, that he will start negotiating with him and say, "Hey, we still have nice land over there or onde, you don't want it here or over there? I am deeply convinced that, as much as the State Land Office has been dragged around by some cases in the past, that we are running into situations where things are going to get much worse, it will still be shielded by the regime of so-called administrative proceedings and everyone will pretend that this is fair, while what goes in this way as if it unlocks state property will not be clearly clear and it will not have fixed rules of the game. I am deeply convinced that this is a system that will be very inflexible. It is more about how to ensure the future of the State Land Office, because I note that the State has yet another organisation to manage its properties, and this is the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs. Rather, I would encourage that, if there is to be any more land for agricultural business, let it be offered to farmers, whether it does not give agricultural land for business to the one who does business in South Bohemia, as a substitute in the Karlovy Vary Region or Ostrava Region, and the like, whether it offers it where it does business, and whether it has to become a priority in its government programme or the like, whether it deals with it in accordance with the legislation that the Czech Republic has, that is, it will agree with the particular owner and treat it according to legislation as we have it in accordance with territorial plans, etc., etc. I think that this bill proposal will not help the Czech Republic from the point of view of the projects it is planning, rather the government's priorities will get a big blow by constantly delaying their implementation. We create a rather interesting environment for speculators because they will choose land that is suitable throughout the Czech Republic. It's not a good experience from the past, and it's a puvoir here, that it's the right thing to do. I am deeply convinced that we should go more along the way to cleaning up the land, because it is not just agricultural land in relation to the State Land Office. These are land under roads, land under pavements and the like, which will suddenly be blocked like this. And if he wants to go through any, I'll say, reconstruction, he'll have to unblock this whole thing in administrative proceedings. In short, we will complicate the construction of projects in individual cities and municipalities. One final point. The petitioner himself admits in the explanatory memorandum that due to the self-government and municipal administration - or municipalities, cities and regions will lose free transfers to their projects, that, on the contrary, the demands of the state will be increased so that cities and municipalities will want some land or buildings to benefit from anything that is publicly beneficial, so they will have to pay for it. [[18.10 hours]] Once again, we will support a system where, on the one hand, we give subsidies to municipalities so that they can build schools or kindergartens, etc., for example, and we all say what a powerful program we have, but I know, for example, a specific community where the Office of State Representation has already preserved itself in property matters, when he told the municipality: if you want this empty and devastated object, which does not belong to anyone anymore, we will transfer it to you for free, but you will never receive it again and you must not use any subsidy. Which seems silly to me, but I'm prepared to prove what and which municipalities it concerns. I beg you to think too much about the fact that this is not a good way to create a system for the management of land in the state's property, because it is not flexible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another party to the debate is Mr Pavera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u8	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also make a few observations on the proposed amendment to the State Land Office Act. I would just follow up on a colleague of Petr Bendl, who said here that there is another office that represents the state in property matters, and it is the Office of State representation in property matters, which means it also manages land and manages real estate. That means, in the direction of the government, it might be worth wondering if we should not bring together both of these authorities, especially if the amount of land managed by the State Land Office is reduced to about 50,000 hectares. For example, I would not agree with my colleague very much that we should sell all the land, and I, as mayor of the municipality, also try not to sell all the land of the municipality, because we never know when we will need it in the future. These are needed rugged paths at present, there may also be a trip in the future, etc. And the amendment provides for a minimum reserve of approximately 50,000 hectares of state land. When I calculated how much is based on average on one municipality or city in the Czech Republic, it is about 8 hectares, which is no large area if there is to be a public building or another. It also allows for the transfer of land to municipalities and regions if they are intended for the implementation of public greenery, and also allows for the transfer of land with permanent growth to establisher of permanent vegetation. I see that as a pretty good thing. What I see a little bit of negatives, and I'm going to say it to the fullest extent here, regulates the jurisdiction of the State Land Office and allows you to draw information from the register and the population records. I understand that an official must know certain information, but then I don't understand why an official from an office has this information and the mayor of the village doesn't have it at his disposal. I don't know if you know that the mayor of the village doesn't know or shouldn't know and can't know unless he graciously asks the office or someone else to do so, how many citizens were born, how many people died, etc. and other information. So the clerk has access to the registry, not the mayor. So there I think I'm not against it, but it would be good for the Home Secretary to think about whether he should somehow address this situation in favour of the mayors of the municipalities. The amendment also does not address the transfer of land to non-profit entities such as associations, organizations. There are a number of associations and organizations that have on the land of the state, and this also applies to the Office for State Representation, its construction or its registered offices or garden houses, which they built themselves and for their money or their part-time jobs, unfortunately, the amendment to the Civil Code becomes, in addition to the land and the owner of these buildings, which should also be dealt with in some way for the benefit of the associations and organizations. The amendment repeals the free transfer of state land to municipalities intended for the construction of family houses. This is justified by the fact that land for the construction of family houses is not used by municipalities. Here I wonder if there is to be a study where it is somehow mapped out, because I am the mayor of the village and I am the chairman of the Hlučín village association, so I am in contact with the mayor of Hlučín and I know that all the transferred land that has individual municipalities are widely used to build on them, so I do not know where the state or the Ministry of Agriculture, the creators of this amendment, this information. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I was also a little surprised by the fact that the amendment states that the State Land Office can transfer agricultural land with a public offer. That word can. And, of course, it can and doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u9	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for speaking to you, but I will ask you, colleagues and colleagues, if you have something important you need to deal with, please go to the lobby to understand what the speakers are saying. Thank you for respecting that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u10	I'll only go back to that word. I just want to say that it should definitely say that the State Land Office must transfer state agricultural land with a public offer. Not that he can transfer. Except, of course, those transfers which are intended to be transferred in another way in the law. That's all on my side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u11	Thank you, too. I have another note here. Today, from 19.15 to 20.30, Mr Václav Zemek apologizes for reasons of work. And I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I see no one, if that is the case, ending the general debate and asking whether the Minister or the rapporteur would like to take the final floor. Do you want to take the final word? [[Yes.]] The rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, members of the Government, the bill that we have been discussing at first reading, said Minister Daniel Herman, Mr Bendl in the debate, who points out that the state will not help itself and will only complicate the situation in the area of state construction. Mr Pavera also spoke in the debate, which recommends that the State Land Office and the State Representation Office be merged in property matters and draws attention to the law defined by the 50 thousand reserve. acres that it can be little. He also pointed out the contradiction of the possibility of access by civil servants of the State Land Office to the population register, while the mayors of the municipalities did not have this. I think these comments can be dealt with at second reading. Mr Bendl still had a question, which is directly for the Minister, and he is looking forward to receiving it at the latest at the third reading. I personally recommend releasing this proposal for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u13	Thank you. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee, with the organizational committee proposing that the proposal to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee. I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee. I don't see a suggestion, in which case I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm doing it, I'm going to check you out, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again. I will read the motion for a resolution on what we will vote on: who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 105, when the Members and Members are registered 128, for proposal 127, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask if anyone has a proposal on the commandment of the next committee for discussion. Mr. Bendl reporting. Please, your suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u14	Thank you. I would like to propose that this material also be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-007-059.u15	Thank you. Anyone else with a draft commandment? I don't see anyone. In that case, I shall put to the vote that this proposal should still be ordered for discussion by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 106, 129 Members are registered, for proposal 64, against 46. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected. No further proposals have been made, and I am ending the first reading of this law. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
