ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 279/2003 Coll., on the exercise of property and property security in criminal proceedings and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 305/ - second reading Even this submitted proposal under the authority of the Government will be presented by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u2	Mr President, dear colleagues, next in line, i.e. second, but quite different from the first, more complicated, but at the same time I would like to say very important, at least equally important, or even more important, the bill is a law amending the law on the exercise of property and property in criminal proceedings. 279/2003 Sb. and other related regulations. This bill was prepared in the context of carrying out the tasks arising from the Government's approved strategy to combat corruption for the period 2013 and 2014 and the concept of combating organised crime for the period 2011 to 2014. It is also based on the conclusions of a government-approved analysis of the efficiency of the management of the secured property and the sale of the secured property, which has detected major obstacles to the effective provision, management and draining of assets in criminal proceedings. This proposal differs from other bills by being processed on the basis of practical knowledge of application practice, and also by reflecting basically the outputs of the working group, which was composed of experts dealing in practice with the issue of security, administration and draining of property in the criminal field and who have long pointed to shortcomings in this field. Of course, we have also taken into account the foreign experience and the so-called. best practices, best recommendations, procedures, best practices that have worked well in other European countries. The proposed legislation clearly improves the enforcement of the property claims of victims of crime. Furthermore, it specifies and complements the existing legislation on the provision of property in criminal proceedings and its administration. Furthermore, it removes interpretational uncertainties and strengthens the legal certainty of persons affected by criminal detention institutes, with application practice being urgently awaited, and I therefore believe that you will support it. If I had to briefly summarize the objectives of the proposed legislation, because otherwise, you have become familiar with the standard, which is a little more complicated. We clearly want to design the management of the secured property and make it more efficient, thereby reducing the cost of it, which is now high, and the effect is far from responding to it. We want to improve the status of the victim of crime so that its property rights are better met in criminal proceedings. Finally, of course, we want to secure and drain more effectively the property of the person against whom criminal proceedings are conducted. In order to do so, the proposed law, the amendment, has chosen the following procedures: to extend and refine the terms and conditions of the sale of the secured property. Property can be sold if it is normal for it to lose rapidly to market value, especially for example. motor vehicles, electrical appliances. It will also be possible to sell assets whose governance is associated with disproportionate difficulties for the state, such as barrels of oil, which must be cleaned so as not to lose quality, with which I became familiar in the preparation of this law, that it is a big problem. For another: clearly define the rights and obligations of the trustee of the secured property. The scope of these rights and obligations will depend on the nature of the secured property. So it is precisely about ensuring that movable material things are effectively taken over by a particular person's administrator. [[18.40 hours]] Drop effective management of secured real estate. Administrative collateral with the help of the real estate cadastral seems sufficient, where the property owner cannot transfer or otherwise burden the property. Adjust clearly the procedure for managing a secured holding in a commercial corporation. The current legislation is completely inadequate in this regard. The management should be carried out by insolvency administrators for remuneration, the amount of which is laid down in the implementing decree. Expand the conditions for securing property claims of a person damaged by a criminal offence. We propose that these claims be possible - and this is what hit a little bit in the constitutional committee, and it will probably also be discussed here - to ensure that, even before criminal prosecution is initiated, the suspect's property is subject to reasonable concern that the satisfaction of these claims will be undermined or made difficult. Following the initiation of the prosecution, such a concern will no longer be required, contrary to existing legislation. I am aware that there may also be counterarguments of this type that prior to the initiation of the prosecution, there is an unacceptable interference with the property rights of the person in respect of which the investigation is actually carried out. On the other hand, we have preferred for the Justice Department what has been neglected for many years, which means the interests of the victim. Furthermore - to allow the provision of only parts of the property charged for the purpose of exercising the sentence of forfeiture of the property. This, I think, is a very important change, because according to the current regulation, only the entire property can be secured, which we think, on the other hand, is an unnecessarily invasive measure against the accused. Similarly to legal persons, the provision of property for the purpose of carrying out a cash penalty. This is the only property penalty for which the detention institute is not regulated. Following the model of foreign legislation to regulate the compulsory forfeiture of property acquired by or as a reward for criminal activity and cannot be returned to the injured person, or in accordance with the principle that the perpetrators of the offence should be thoroughly drained of everything he has acquired or acquired, or how he has enriched himself with criminal activity. The bill was - in conclusion, I would like to point out once more - discussed in the Constitutional Legal Committee. Amendments have been adopted with which I agree and support their approval. I therefore ask you to support this amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 305/1. Now please the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Marek Benda - which I do not see here. I ask my fellow Members from the Constitutional Legal Committee if anyone is able to represent Mr Benda as rapporteur. Mr. Vondráček. We will therefore vote on the amendment of the rapporteur if there is no objection to the procedure. It's not like that. I therefore propose to amend Mr Marek Benda's rapporteur for this press from Mr Radek Vondráček's absent Member. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 17-order vote, 168 Members of Parliament, for 109, against none. The motion was accepted. I will therefore ask the rapporteur Radek Vondráček to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u4	Hello. For the unexpected honor of being the alternate rapporteur, thank you. The Constitutional Committee has dealt with this proposal. I would also like to thank all my colleagues for the substantive and constructive debate on this press. I do not think that there has been a fundamental problem in the overall intention of this law to clarify the existing regulation and improve the overall situation. However, there was one such neuralgic point in the discussion, and that is § 49a, as the Minister has already put forward. I was originally enrolled in the general debate. I don't know if I should comment more widely from the rapporteur's position on this controversial paragraph. Maybe I'd keep that for my next post. I would refer to the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee as at your disposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which I record Mr Martin Plíšek's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u6	Good evening, Mr President, dear colleagues. This House press, which we are discussing, seems, at first sight, to be devout, innocent. The possibilities for securing property in respect of persons who are prosecuted, suspected of committing a criminal offence, are being extended. The situation of the injured in this proceeding is also improving. However, there has been one unacceptable provision in this provision, which, in my view, is contrary to our constitutional order, with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms itself, and that is part two, the amendment of the Criminal Code, Article 3, where a new § 49a is introduced, which allows, under certain conditions, to secure the property of a person who is still only suspected of committing a criminal offence, and that - and let us all now listen to everyone, they have already mentioned it here - before the prosecution itself begins, and that is only to do so on the basis of the decision of the prosecutor on a proposal from the victim. This means, let's say, the prosecutor agrees with the police, the police, the victim's proposal, and there will be a breach of fundamental human rights, the seizure of property will take place when the prosecution itself has not begun. At the same time, our constitutional order, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, says that fundamental rights and human freedoms can only be entered with the consent of the court, which is customary even in certain other interventions to fundamental human rights in criminal proceedings. Indeed, there was a heated debate on this in the constitutional committee. Even government Members have proposed an adjustment that a court should be put there with some order period, not just a prosecutor. So far, I have not noticed any efforts made by the Minister to make this provision more precise. Therefore, in a detailed debate on the ground that this provision could be contrary to our constitutional order, I will propose, I will put forward an amendment which I will propose to release the new Section 49a, which, in my view, is inadmissible in the basic human rights and freedoms, because without the consent of the court, no one can really be confiscated any property before the prosecution and criminal proceedings are initiated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u7	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. Now with priority rights, the Minister has applied. No? So, Mr. Rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u8	So Mr. Plíšek has already summed up part of the argument, what we argued about within the Constitutional Legal Committee. Basically, we agreed that the adjustment isn't exactly the happiest, and maybe we're not ready for it. From the arguments put forward by the colleague that this is an unconstitutional institute, to a less radical rhetoric, for example, on my part, that, in the present situation, when prosecutors are driven by the principle of legality, they are prosecuting absolutely always and everything, and yet the percentage of exemption is quite high, and that it is indeed an intervention in the rights of the suspect in the case that has not yet been reported, so, in view of this particular nervousness, we have finally resorted to it, and we have discussed it with the Minister and the Ministry of Justice, that, in this situation, we would, in order not to undermine the good intention of this law as a whole, proceed to the release of this contested paragraph. Now it's a smiling situation. I, too, already have an amendment in the system, which will be in fact identical to that of my fellow Member Plíšek. That's all due to the expiration of time. It could be discussed more widely. I was very brief.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u9	You can discuss more widely, Mr. Colleague. Your time as rapporteur is not limited in any way. Madam Secretary is now reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u10	Thank you. I am, of course, very aware of the constitutional constraints. I do not think that they would be broken here, but given the importance of this law, given that any improvisation and basically improvement of that provision could lead, for example, to a decision by the court, which will not only burden the court, but to prolong this stage of the trial, to burden the court, so in this situation, I agree that this controversial provision should be dismissed. This does not change the overall design, character, purpose and meaning of the law. It is such a small concession, but not of such character as to change the nature of the intended § 49a. So either the way we have it, which, I see, comes across, and even in the constitutional law committee, has come across some doubts, or rather release, but not modify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate and opening the debate in detail, to which Mr Martin Plíšek is also reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u12	As promised, I am proposing an amendment which I have already announced here. First of all, in Part Three of Article 11, Amendment 11 would be abolished, that is to say, that is the part that actually regulates the amendment to the Criminal Code, which allowed the seizure of property prior to the initiation of the prosecution. I was also warned by legislation that it is necessary to change the internal legacy. So my amendment would still have paragraph 2. This means in Part Two of Article 3, in Amendment Point 57, § 146a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) the words "Art. 48 (1) (a) It replaced between 2 and 4 and Article 49a with the words "and Article 48 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') and "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union' and "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union', "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union', "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The first point would therefore be that in Article 3, the whole amendment point number 11 is deleted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u13	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u14	In this case, as Minister of Justice, I agree with the amendment that Mr Plíšek has just made here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u15	I thank the Minister for this statement. You'll be able to do that again at third reading. I now ask the rapporteur's final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u16	I'm just gonna make a note. My amendment was exactly the same as the one tabled, so I didn't even apply for it anymore. At least you can see the consensus in the constitutional committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-010-010.u17	Touching agreement of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you, rapporteur. If the final words have passed, then I will end the second reading of this bill. And since it's 18.54, it's not five minutes before - is it? [[There are objections that it already is.]] I ask: Can I still read the government bill in relation to the effectiveness of the recodification of private law? The last point we're going to start, but apparently we're not going to finish is
