ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u1	125. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn a ranking of Members, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14:30 to 16:00, to other members of the government from 16:00 to 18:00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. Now let me read the apologies. For personal reasons, today's meeting from 14:30 apologies to Mr Koskuba, for family reasons, Mr. Mr Holík, from 14:30 to 16:00 for business reasons, Minister Mládek, from 14:30 from the urgent work programme outside Prague, Mrs Chalánková from 14:30 for personal reasons, Mr Plíšek from 14:30 for family reasons, Mr Votava for this afternoon's work-related reasons, Mr Dobešová Babiš from 14:30 for work-related reasons, Mr Vozdecký, Minister Jurečka apologizes for health reasons until 16:00 for work-related reasons, Mr Miloš Babiš from 14:30 for work-related reasons, Mr Gabal apologizes for health reasons. He also apologizes to Mrs Golasowská from 14.30 to the end of today, and Mrs Pastuchová from 14.30 to 16.00. And now I give the floor to Mr Jiří Zlatušek, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, on Thursday, 5 March, you attended a meeting with the Presidency of the Czech Rectors' Conference and spoke at a joint press conference after this meeting. I would like to know the clarification of two problematic points that took your performance, respectively. the previous proceedings concern him. The first concerns funds managed by universities. The conclusions of your negotiations with the Rectors were based on a published figure of 22 billion, with which they run universities. However, the compilation of the data from Table 5 of the Annual Report on the Management of Higher Education Institutions for 2013 shows that public universities are provided with an amount of almost double, 43 billion crowns, i.e. 1.11 percent of gross domestic product, which is the level corresponding to the average in the European Union. Come in. The government's programming statement states: "The government will analyse higher education legislation and then submit a proposal for amendments." For the upcoming amendment, you used the phrase "neverending story" in a record published on IFor - I will deliver the address to the screen record - and called the novel "so much needed." [[Address: http://iforum.cuni.cz/IFORUM.]] The President of the Czech Rectors' Conference subsequently stated that "the novela is the furthest after eight, nine years." Thus, the analysis that our government was to produce is missing, even though the amendment was to follow up on it. There is no substantive purpose for change, on the contrary, it is generally understood that this is the continuation of the attempts of the Topolánkův and Nečasův government, never by the government approved by the White Paper and never completed material intentions. It is true that part of the university community concluded that it would be better not to oppose a harmless compromise and not risk worse ideas. The model of accreditation is still not finished or tested and its praise is the advertising of agents with hot water. The procedure does not correspond to the government's programming statement and the idea that texting the amendment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u3	Ambassador, your time limit is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u4	- is just a technical matter deputy for legislation, it can easily retaliate. That is why I was struck by your public cover for arguments, which are intended to serve a good cause, but they are not defendable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u5	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, has the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u6	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Madam Vice-President, I actually attended the Presidency of the Czech Rectors' Conference, and we discussed several topics at the meeting of this Bureau, which was also attended by the Minister of Education. One of the topics was the preparation of the state budget for 2016 and the issue of the long-term outlook that the Ministry of Finance has regarding the budget of the Ministry of Education. It follows from this perspective, and this was confirmed by both the Minister of Education and I was confirmed by the representatives of the universities, and so they read it in the same way, and they told me that they read it in the same way, the budgetary perspective that if the government did not make any changes in the concrete preparation of the draft budget for the next year, there is a fall in the subsidy for universities, for public universities, by approximately CZK 800 million year-on-year. As the Minister of Education informed me, there has already been a reduction of CZK 400 million in the budget for 2015 for public universities, but the Minister covered this amount in the framework of the relocation of internal resources of the Ministry of Education. But in the 2016 perspective, according to the Education Minister's communication, this problem is not solved. So that's one problem that exists here and that we've discussed. The second problem, which is real, is naturally the preparation of an amendment to the Higher Education Act. The novel was unsuccessful in trying to prepare and present the Nečasův government. As the various ministers of education took turns very often, neither of them managed to bring the proposal to an end so that the amendment would, as far as I know, find itself here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thus, the Minister of Education followed up on legislative work and followed up on the debate that was conducted with the university public. And this isn't just about the rectors, it's also about the students' representatives. The discussion was held in recent years, it was often very stormy, it was often accompanied by demonstrations in the streets against some of the partial proposals of this amendment to the Higher Education Act, and therefore naturally I was interested in this meeting, what is the opinion of the Bureau of the Rectors' Conference on the current proposal, which has already been sent by the Ministry of Education to the Legislative Council of the Government. I have been informed that there is a consensus and that the Rectors' Conference supports it on a proposal, as prepared by the Ministry of Education. I have promised to attend the Czech Rectors' plenary so that I can speak not only to the Bureau but to all the presidents of our universities, and I will certainly be happy to continue the discussion with them on the subject of the next year's budget as well as on the subject of the preparation of higher education legislation. As far as the question of analysis is concerned, I think that this is something that we still need to discuss within the framework of the government coalition, what new analysis would tell us beyond the discussion that has been conducted in the environment of the Ministry of Education, universities, scientific institutions, corporate sphere in recent years, and what new information such an analysis could give us to contribute to improving the legislative process and discussing the amendment of the Higher Education Act. So at this stage of the debate, I would like to say that I consider it important that the financing of public universities be one of the priorities of the State Budget Act next year. As far as universities are concerned, there is and is likely to be a reduction in the number of students in the coming years as a result of demographic decline. At the same time, I think it is important that we maintain the quality of universities so that the amount does not fall to one student. Because, as I have also been informed, the number of students per teacher in the Czech Republic is one of the highest in public universities within Europe. [[14.40 hours]] I think we should be concerned about maintaining the amount of funding that goes to higher education, while reducing the number of students, creating greater prerequisites for increasing the quality of public higher education in our country. I report as Prime Minister to the idea of maintaining the volume of expenditure on public universities in the coming years at least at the level of expenditure that was implemented in 2015, and at the same time I would very much like us to maintain consensus on the form of an amendment to the Higher Education Act, and at the moment that proposal will be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies to discuss it here in a way that will enable us to continue to have a productive dialogue with the university environment and with the academic community. I wouldn't want to approve a novel here that will be protested on the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u7	Prime Minister, your time is up. I ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u8	Dear Prime Minister, I have mentioned the percentage of GDP in the European Union in the light of international comparisons. The problem is that at a time when only a contribution to educational activity is argued, it is not really a subsidy, it is not even billable at the end of the year, so it is only a small part of income, and at the moment when we compare higher education institutions with abroad, so there is always talk of institutional funding. This may be linked to a more serious problem of higher education legislation, and this is transparency of accounting, subject to audit approaches, which will also enable it to focus on what is stated in such cases and whether it is true and whether quality really relates only to finances. Otherwise, I never doubted your constructive approach, and I would like to wish you success -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u9	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking the Prime Minister for a reaction. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u10	Thank you. I, on the one hand, thank you for your wishes and, on the other hand, agree that quality is not just a matter of money. I think we can definitely agree on that. I also agree that the amount that was probably mentioned somewhere, the less than CZK 22 billion, is certainly not all the funds that flow to public universities. For example, investment subsidies granted to public universities were not included in that amount, so that amount does not, of course, cover all funds. I think that what is valuable and, as I understand, what is important in that amendment to the Public Higher Education Act is a more robust accreditation system. And if it would contribute, if we were able to refine the rules on accreditation, strengthen capacity and strengthen the independence of this accreditation system, I think it could be one of the elements that could increase the pressure on the quality of education in the Czech Republic in the future. So if the amendment would help at least in this area, then I think it will be useful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u11	Thank you. Now, please, second in line, this is Mr Ladislav Šincl, to present his intervention on the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, I recently got my hands on a very bitter, open letter from the Mining Union Association addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. This letter mainly concerns the issue of early mining pensions. Among other things, you are accused in this letter that you are supposedly unaware of the age of the miners, and you ignore all the processed studies that you do not want to hear about the health of the miners, the number of occupational diseases, general diseases and other health damage, and that you have no idea what conditions are being worked on the shaft. You're also accused of practically doing the opposite. I hear there's even words out of your mouth about discrimination against other groups. And what's important is that you don't keep the promises you made to the mining unions, among other things. It follows from that letter that the mining public feels deceived. I know you, and that's why I don't believe these accusations. You are not the same as Minister Andrej Babiš, who at least three times promised his support to the miners in the case of earlier pensions, and then sent a letter to the mining unions through his deputy Gregor, where he turned. Now he's miserable in this matter, and he's no longer familiar with his promises. I believe you're different from him. I believe that you keep your promises, which is why I would ask you here on live air to respond directly to all the miners, as it is, frankly, without freaking out, as it is customary in the mining environment. In order to understand this challenging work, it would certainly be good for you to come to the miners, plow down and take a closer look at how difficult it is. Then you will understand that it is complete nonsense for miners to retire, for example, at the age of 65, when the average time of the miner's life is 58 years. I wonder if you'll come to see the miners. I'd be happy to walk you there and show you everything myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u13	Thank you. I'm asking the Prime Minister for a reaction. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u14	Thank you. Dear Member, I understand that the situation in the Moravian-Silesian region has been sharpened. It is sharpened, among other things, as a result of a significant fall in the prices of coal in recent years. At the moment we face the risks of further redundancies in the largest mining company OKD in the Moravian-Silesian region. The Polish state mining companies on the other side of the border are also facing similar problems. The decline in the prices of energy raw materials significantly affected the mining industry both on the Moravian-Silesian and Polish side. In recent months, the government has been looking for options and continues to look for ways to reduce this social tension. One of these options, which, of course, also concerns the issue of reducing the number of employees in OKD, is the possibility of early retirement for part of existing miners. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - and I am glad that Minister Marksová is active in this regard - submitted two concrete materials last December concerning the issue of the retirement of miners. The first material under discussion is the amendment to Government Decree No. 363/2009. It is therefore an amendment relating to the establishment of the retirement age and the conversion of the old-age pensions of certain miners who started their employment before 1993. This amendment is intended to remove from the current government regulation the rule that the condition of the required number of shifts had to be fulfilled by 2008. The aim is to enable the same rights to be acquired to those miners with permanent workplaces underground in deep-sea mines who, although entering these jobs before 1 January 1993, have fulfilled the necessary number of shifts, if necessary, until after 2008. This amendment was already included in the discussion in the government, it was discussed on 9 February this year. The hearing has been adjourned. It was interrupted on the basis of comments made by the Ministry of Finance. I suppose the government should return to discussing this proposal about 25 March this year. At this point, the settlement of comments between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance is under way, and then the Government will decide on this matter. As far as my personal opinion is concerned, I am prepared to vote in favour of this government regulation. I believe that the number of cases to be covered, as well as the budgetary costs associated with it, are measured and acceptable and acceptable to the State. At the same time, the adoption of this Regulation should indeed allow for the elimination of at least the part of the social tension that exists in the northern Moravia region. The second topic is the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. The amendment has been discussed so far by the Legislative Council of the Government. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is currently responding to comments from the Government Legislative Council. Among other things, a new version of the explanatory memorandum is being prepared. The proposal for an amendment is intended to replace the condition of compliance with the number of shifts by the end of 2008 with the condition of compliance with the number of shifts by the end of 2030. [[14.50 hours]] In addition, contrary to the above mentioned government regulation, the condition that preferential rights are to apply only to miners who entered the described employment before 1 January 1993 is to be removed. Pension rights would thus be adjusted to the miners who joined at any time later when this amendment was approved. The aim of this amendment is to enable the same rights to be acquired even to those miners with permanent working ground in deep-sea mines who entered these jobs after 31 December 1992. Of course, this adjustment cannot be changed and obtained only by the Government's regulation, but the law must be changed, that is, this law must go through the whole legislative process and then it will be discussed with the government and, if the government agrees on it, it will submit it to the Chamber of Deputies. I am, of course, ready to come to the Moravian-Silesian Region, I am ready to meet with the representatives of the miners, I am prepared to inform them of what the government is doing at the moment for legislative adjustments, which should respect the fact that in this hard work it is not possible to endure until the time of the appointed retirement age. I realise this and point out once again, the government is ready to act and address the social situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u15	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. I see he's on his way to the speaker's desk. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Prime Minister, who is not avoiding responsibility and understands that social unrest in this region is really threatening. I wonder - I still have a direct question for you to answer directly here - how do you stand up to an updated amendment about earlier retirement for miners when it comes to government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u17	I'm asking the Prime Minister for a reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u18	I was talking about a government order that's being prepared and I'm ready to support. As for the novel, I think it's important here that we reach a wider consensus. It is absolutely essential that we agree on it in the entire government coalition, and at this point we are facing negotiations with coalition partners. So I see it as a path we can take. Budgetary requirements need to be taken into account, but the social situation that exists in the region must also be taken into account, the question of the prospect of coal mining in the Moravian-Silesian region and our ability to respond to the change in the conditions that are taking place there. I just want to remind you that if some regions in Western Europe have had similar problems in recent years and in the past, governments have prepared restructuring programmes concerning regions that have been affected by the downturn in heavy industry. Today, we are in a situation where the Moravian-Silesian region is affected by a fall in the prices of energy raw materials, especially coal, by a potentially significant decline in coal mining. I think it will be necessary to look for an overall solution and a government's overall contribution to the development of regions and to the issue of employment alternatives. We must agree on which direction we will go, which direction we will invest the funds in, whether we will be able to offer these miners, who will be leaving the mines, any other economic activity with the support of the government, or whether it will be more useful to invest these funds in early retirement, which would be implemented by the relevant amendment. I think that we should consider this in the overall context, and probably the government in cooperation, especially on the basis of cooperation between the ministries of industry and work and social affairs, should prepare a comprehensive programme which should address the effects of the decline in mining in the Moravian-Silesian region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u19	Thank you. And now I ask that Mrs Kovářová speak with the next interview. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u20	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, this week I had the opportunity to see a report documenting the participation of members of the Czech Government at the meeting of the Council of the European Union. Participation - rather not participation. I do not want to present the figures relating to individual ministers, but I must mention the fact that we have record-makers among ministers who have not even visited Brusel yet. I see the absence of government members as a serious problem which does not improve the position of the Czech Republic in the eyes of our European partners, on the contrary. The bitter fruit of inactivity then, I fear, we reap for example. in negotiations on European funds, but undoubtedly also in other areas. Dear Prime Minister, I think that improving the attendance of members of our government is inevitable in the interests of the good name of the Czech Republic. What are you going to do about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u21	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u22	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, when it comes to the participation of members of the Government in the meetings of the various Councils of the European Union, this is not a matter that we can consider merely by looking at attendance. The participation of ministers always depends on the topics discussed at the councils. This does not mean that there are ministers of other Member States on all councils. I think the point is that this is not a competition for presentation and competition for participation in European Council meetings, but for consideration of the importance and focus of the subject. This government, which the Czech Republic has today, is pro-European and the minister, when deciding on the priorities of his programme, must consider the importance of the topic discussed at the Council and how important it is to address domestic work obligations. If the Minister does not participate in the Council, he shall be represented in most cases by the Assistant Director. I would also like to stress that the Councils are not the only opportunity to address European issues and a number of current issues are addressed by government ministers, for example. In the context of bilateral meetings and separate meetings they have in Brussels, and this is how we have acted, especially when we have addressed the issue of the Civil Service Act when we have addressed the question of preparing for the drawing of European funds. I have personally participated in all the European Councils which have so far taken place within the framework of my mandate, which I exercise as Prime Minister. This means that no European Council has left the Czech seat empty, among other things because the Prime Minister is not, in principle, deputised at the meetings of the institutions of the European Council. I also want to mention the fact that for example. Minister Marksová was at all the Councils of the European Union for Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Protection, five of which were five. Or Minister Brabec, Minister of the Environment - five meetings took place, the Minister was only missing from one of them, four attended. Minister Jurečka took part in eight agricultural councils for his mandate. Worse is the participation of the Minister of Health, where they took place, as far as I know, two or three councils and the Minister did not participate. In any case, this is an appropriate opportunity for me to speak with the ministers on this subject. I will use the nearest government meeting, where we always have a regular point at the beginning of the government on the current European agenda, and I will ask the ministers to consider their participation very carefully at the European Council meetings, and if there are topics that are important for the Czech Republic to prioritize the negotiations of the European Council over their domestic duties. However, if there are topics that are not priority for us as for the Czech Republic, then I think that the Minister naturally has the right to consider what his agenda gives priority, whether to participate in the European Council negotiations or the obligations that he has in the Czech Republic. So much for a very brief response to your interpelation. Thank you for reminding me of the subject, and I will convey a message from this interview to the members of the government at its next meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u23	Thank you, and the honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Just a little point. You said that some topics are not important to the Czech Republic. I therefore ask who determines that this topic is important for the Czech Republic, first of all, and if we have ministers who have not yet participated in the Council of the European Union, this means that we are going to the Council of Europe (?) didn't she discuss topics that are not important to the Czech Republic? My question is whether it is possible to give some commitment, that there will be improvement, and all the more so, that you have just said that this government is presenting itself as a pro-European government. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u25	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u26	Thank you. Madame de la la la la la la la la la la Who decides on the minister's participation? A member of the government decides. It is in its competence and depends on how it will assess the agenda of the relevant European Council. When I return here to the Minister of Health's participation: Two councils took place during his mandate. One advice was focused on the vaccination agenda and the minister represented the chief health care professional, whose competence this area falls within the Ministry of Health. So it is indeed the supreme right of each member of the government to judge this matter, but from the point of view of the government's efforts to act actively on the European Union, I consider it reasonable that ministers do not miss too many meetings of expert advice, and if topics are important for the Czech Republic to go there. They themselves have enough competence to assess this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u27	I thank the Prime Minister. Now let me make two excuses. From today's meeting since 14.30, Mrs Pastuchová and Mrs Zelienková apologizes for working reasons. Now, please, next in line, and that is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues. Dear Prime Minister, let me ask you a question regarding the register. The government plans to introduce registers for hundreds of thousands of our businessmen and entrepreneurs, and it intends to impose on them a number of other responsibilities related to this, while the government has yet to imagine any timetable in which it imagines that these obligations will be fulfilled by businessmen in the future. She did not introduce whom they would relate and to what extent the traders would be obliged to purchase register cash registers. So I'm asking you if you could make it clear when and to whom the register will apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u29	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u30	Thank you. Dear Member, first of all, I would like to say that registers work in Slovakia, for example, and register registers should be introduced in the Czech Republic after 2006. But what our government is preparing at the moment is, let's say, a new generation of sales records. It is a technologically different system, which I believe will also require much less costs from the point of view of its implementation than the implementation of the register system, which I already consider technologically obsolete. So it is not register cash registers, it is an electronic record of sales, it means a system that is able to record in principle in online mode all sales of participants who are connected to this system. It is a system that has been working successfully for some time in Croatia. It is a system that is being considered by some other European countries. Naturally, the aim is to combat the reduction of sales effectively, against tax evasion resulting from the reduction of sales, which concerns, in particular, leakages in the field of value added tax and, in particular, leakages in the field of income tax. The estimated additional revenue from the introduction of an electronic sales log system for public budgets may exceed 10 billion. crowns a year. At the moment, the bill on the record of sales is in the external commentary procedure and these days comments are settled in the context of the external commentary procedure. Subsequently, the law will be submitted to the Legislative Council of the Government, then discussed with the Government and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in accordance with the Government's legislative plan. The preparation of technical solutions also takes place in parallel with the preparation of legislation, i.e. the information system of financial administration. On 9 March the Government took note of information about the planned over-limit public contract for the information system of electronic sales records. As regards the form of the bill, as is currently mentioned in the external commentary procedure, the law is intended to apply to both natural persons and legal persons. For natural persons on income from business from a separate activity. It applies to Czech residents and non-residents. It concerns income which is subject to income tax in the Czech Republic and payments between entrepreneurs. It does not concern random income, income taxed by withholding tax or income from activities other than business. According to the draft law, cash payments, including funds representing money such as chips or coupons, card payments or other electronic means, and payment by a meal voucher or cheque, are to be recorded. For example, the revenue from vending machines will not be recorded. So much so briefly a description of the extent to which the e-booking of sales law is being prepared at the moment. I am convinced that the costs associated with the acquisition of this system will be significantly lower than the costs associated with the acquisition of the system of those technologically older registration cash registers that operated on the basis of the data box sales log, into a memory that was always placed in each of those registers, and that memory could only be read as a result of physical control by the Financial Authority Controller. Thus, both the acquisition of the system and its subsequent control by the tax administration will have less impact on expenditure by business entities or the State itself. I believe that if we are to actually intervene against the significant tax evasion that works in the economy and if we are to promote equal business conditions, we should implement this system. Of course, the Ministry of Finance is holding a debate with the business unions, holding a debate with organisations that represent small entrepreneurs. A technical solution is sought that would be as simple as possible to fulfil the purpose of the assignment, but, of course, as little burden as possible and as little complicated as possible. From this point of view, of course, a group of taxpayers will be elected who will be included in this electronic sales log system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u31	I thank and ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u32	I asked the Prime Minister when and who it was going to be about. So, in general, we learned who this might be about. I would repeat this question since when. And yet, do you have any idea how much this will involve, for example, elderly people who earn extra money and so on? Because I wonder if you're saying it's going to be significantly cheaper than you expected in 2006 - that's what I don't want a free discount, or I just want a discount on something, or I'm saying something's going to be cheaper, and I don't know what it costs - how much do you expect every one businessman to cost?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u33	I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u34	On the issue of the introduction and timetable of the electronic record-keeping system, we had negotiations on this topic at the Coalition Council and the Ministry of Finance confirmed its ambition to implement the system from the beginning of next year, with the system being introduced in several waves, i.e. individual types of clients being connected to it gradually. This means that all business entities will not have to enter the system on a single date, but a gradual start-up and gradual expansion of entities that will be subject to an obligation to register their sales electronically will be chosen. That's the first point. Second point. In principle, the system will concern those entrepreneurs who accept cash payments which have an establishment and where the technological way they operate does not prevent electronic sales records from being made. This is the basic type definition of the entities that will fall under the electronic record of sales. As regards acquisition costs, this is information that should be provided and verified by the Ministry of Finance. I assume they will be mentioned in the explanatory report of the law when it will be submitted for discussion to the Government of the Czech Republic. At this point, the law is going through a commentary procedure, but the estimates that appeared in the discussion in the commentary procedure show that the cost of the acquisition of the equipment in question will be lower than the costs that would have been associated with the acquisition of the entire register in this, let's say, technologically older execution, which has been prepared here in the past. So much for the very brief question. The government's aim is to really minimise costs, reduce administrative burdens and ensure the fight against tax evasion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u35	Thank you. And now, please, another winner, and that is Mr. Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u36	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. vážený Prime Minister, at the end of February, your government approved an analysis of the drawdown of European funds and the 2015 crisis plans for the 2007-2013 programming period. The Minister for Regional Development has adjusted its estimate for the undersupply of European money to between 18 billion and 23 billion. Crowns. They're pessimistic even talking about 41 billion. and in the case of problems in the EIA process of non-realization of transport constructions, it even reported an amount of up to 85 billion. From my point of view, the Ministry of Regional Development is not doing enough to reduce the estimated revenue if these amounts are correct. I'm afraid if this were to happen in the next programming period, then it could be even higher. That is why I am asking you, Prime Minister, what the preparation of the new programming period looks like, when regional operational programmes will be replaced by a single integrated operational programme under the Ministry of Regional Development. Mr President of the Government, what will the implementation structure look like within each region and how will it be ensured that the funds reach each region as was the case for each regional operational programme? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u37	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u38	Thank you. Dear Member, your question has to do with the fact that another architecture of operational programmes has been chosen for the new programming period. Instead of regional operational programmes here, we will have a newly Integrated Regional Operational Programme, which is an IROP shortcut, which should therefore work between 2014 and 2020. Overall, more than 4.5 billion are allocated to this programme. EUR. At the moment, a dialogue is under way between the Ministry of Regional Development, which is the Managing Authority of the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, and the European Commission on the approval of the definitive version of this operational programme. So far, we are at a stage where this operational programme has not yet been approved. The main problem identified during the IROP approval negotiations is the issue of resolving the problems associated with its implementation. The original proposal by the Ministry of Regional Development to act as so-called intermediate bodies within the decentralised management of the IROP is rejected by regional councils, in principle by the European Commission. That is why the Ministry of Regional Development is looking for solutions and proposing solutions that would enable it to deal with the European Commission's comments. The Ministry of Regional Development has therefore chosen the option of implementing the IROP through one intermediate organisation. This should be the Centre for Regional Development of the Czech Republic. This is an organization established by the Ministry of Regional Development. It is a proven and functional implementation system. At this point, it has branches in regions that can be further developed. It is therefore expected that personnel would be increased, and thus the administrative capacity of the Centre for Regional Development, with some current employees of regional councils coming gradually to this Centre for Regional Development. Capacity increase process The Centre for Regional Development will be very complicated, because, of course, the government is also interested in keeping regional council authorities operational until the end of individual regional operational programmes. This year, we are actually ending drawing from the ROPs, but we still have a period of shutting down their activities, and it is important that the existing regional council offices remain functional, which should in principle then disappear together with the completion of individual regional operational programmes. In the meantime, we need to start implementing and drawing from the IROP operational programme and there we would like to take advantage of the very part of the existing capacity on regional councils. And it is precisely the question of the division of workers and ensuring the functionality of both structures beside each other that I think the most important and difficult task that the Minister for Regional Development will have to handle in order to avoid malfunctions in drawing under the IROP. Otherwise, with regard to the money to be allocated in the IROP, about 20 percent of the allocation is intended for projects whose carriers will be the organisational units of the state and will be administered by the Prague headquarters of the Centre for Regional Development. These are, for example, projects that the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Health will professionally cover. And 80 percent of the IROP allocation is intended for projects by other applicants. This means that the Regional Development Centre in Prague would administer the organizational components of the state and then manage the projects of Central Bohemia applicants and would be created next to the other twelve regional branches of Central Bohemia in individual regional cities, which would then administer the applications of applicants from these regions, which would be aimed at drawing on IROP. So much so briefly on your question. Otherwise, I can only confirm that the absorption of funds from the old financial perspective is still a priority of the government. We return to this at least once a month from the point of view of information on the use of funds, once every two or three months by a comprehensive debate at government level, to evaluate the situation in each operational programme. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Last year, we tried to take measures that would speed up the most consumption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u39	Thank you. I am asking the honourable Member. Yes, he wants to ask a follow-up question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u40	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I have one more question. Minister Karla Šlechtová has made a very negative statement on social democracy that she is responsible for the problems with the lack of European funds. While I have information and experience, it was the ROPs that were not only effective in drawing this money, but that money went directly into the development of municipalities and cities. The authorities and mayors of the municipalities who have had positive experience in drawing European money have rightly opposed this claim. However, I do not say that everything went smoothly and in accordance with applicable laws. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask how state control will be ensured in the new IROP architecture in the upcoming programming period, so that the drawing of European money is not only transparent, but, above all, effective for the development of our country. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u41	Thank you, and I ask for the Prime Minister's response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u42	Thank you. When we look at the situation of drawing in the old financial perspective, where is there really a problem with the lack of funding? With regard to regional operational programmes, the so-called ROPs, it is one ROP, and this is the ROP Northwest. This concerns the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region. Crime activities were recorded there. There are already specific decisions of the court concerning the actors who have been convicted in connection with the drawing of European funds. Thus, this regional operational programme is also affected by the greatest corrections with regard to projects where errors have been found. As far as other regional operational programmes are concerned, they are among those able to draw and will be able to draw up the vast majority of the funds. From the point of view of the total amount of undrawn funds, the ROPs play an absolutely negligible level. This means that the problem of undersupply does not concern the regions at all. It doesn't concern them. It shall cover them to a minimum. The problem of undersupply concerns large central operational programmes that fall under individual ministries. What's the biggest problem, and what was the biggest problem a year ago when we got here? Definitely the Environment Operational Programme. There has been significant changes in the last year, otherwise there would have been a dramatic loss of funds. So the biggest problems were identified a year ago in the Operational Programme Environment, in the Operational Programme VaVpI, in the Operational Programme Transport, in the Operational Programme IOP, which managed and managed the Ministry of Regional Development. So the major central operational programs that had the greatest risk of losing funds, and there the government focuses and there focuses its activities to minimize those declines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u43	Prime Minister, I'm sorry, but your time. Thank you, and now, please, another winner, and that is Mr Adolf Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I just have a quick question for the Prime Minister. Yesterday was an inspirational debate or a duel between Mr Kalousek and Minister of Finance Babiš when the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act was debated. It was inspiring. So I thought in this context, in the existing law on conflict of interest in Section 8, it is said that when, for example, a constitutional body and so on meets and there is a member who could get into conflict of interest, he is obliged to report this potential conflict of interest. I ask the Prime Minister if this is happening in the course of the government's proceedings, because according to the same paragraph, paragraph 1. 2 is needed in this case for the Office of the Government to record these conflicts. So I wanted to ask if the Minister of Finance Babiš reports these clashes during the government meeting whether you have this record, or how many times in the past year the Minister of Finance has done this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u45	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response. [[Noise in the hall.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u46	Thank you. Dear Member, I must say that at the moment I do not have an accurate record of how many cases the Minister of Finance has announced a conflict of interest in the government's negotiations. In case you are interested in providing this exact information, I am prepared to provide it to you, but it will be necessary to first review the government's records for more than a year and report the cases that have occurred. I can say that the Minister of Finance is abstaining from voting at the government's meeting in cases where there is a conflict of interest. This was also the case in the case of two amendments to the Consumer Tax Act, which the Ministry of Finance has now submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, and in this discussion the Minister of Finance announced a conflict of interest and abstained at the same time when the Government as a whole voted on this proposal. So the record should be available. In case you are interested, I am prepared to give the Office of the Government the task of preparing such information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u47	I thank and ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u48	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I understand very well. It is clear that you cannot have this information accurately inserted in your memory. I would then ask that we get her out of the government's office in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u49	Thank you and I assume that the Prime Minister's response is not necessary, so please take the next step and this is Mr Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u50	Hello, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I would like to address the Prime Minister in the matter of register receipts. I know that it's his old love, and so is his entire social democracy, and that they've always been supporters of capital and employees, and they always didn't like businessmen, and that they have this as a way of taking these businessmen at their mouths and cutting them off. I even respect their proposal, even if I don't share it. I am just surprised that by carrying out this task, they have entrusted a legislatively least-qualified member of the government, Mr. Finance Minister, who clearly does not handle him at all. I ask when it will be clear what it will be, how it will be. In today's answers in today's Law, there are completely different answers than those given to us by the Prime Minister. Today, the Finance Minister claims that taxpayers who pay taxes will not cost the system at all. Of course, I think he's making it up. But I wonder what the Prime Minister thinks about it, whether the software and hardware are really being read off the tax base, but directly from the tax base, or whether the Minister of Finance is simply deceiving our public and the Prime Minister admits that there will be some costs. I would also like to know, and the Prime Minister here admitted that consent has already been given to the publication of an over-the-limit public contract and sales system, before the government has submitted this bill to the House at least. And now I'm not talking about him being approved. Why is the Treasury ready to hand over the money? Based on what law that doesn't apply, they're ready to spend? At the same time, how is it not to be open to the selection procedure for this system? Is this some little Treasury home?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u51	Thank you for your question, and I ask the Prime Minister's answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u52	Thank you. I would like to confirm, honourable Member, that social democracy has actually advocated measures to reduce tax evasion in the long term. We have already managed to implement some of the measures. I remind you of the alcohol control tapes that we fought very hard about here in the Chamber of Deputies, and it turned out that this was an effective measure. And I can only refer Members and Members to the things that appeared publicly in the liquor mafia process, and to those insults directed by traders and fraudsters who organized themselves in this mafia, precisely the system of stakes, which significantly reduced sales in their illegal business. So a number of measures have already been implemented. We pushed through the register when we were in the government. Then the right-wing government, I suspect, was the government of Topolánek, abolished the register and at this point it is a more technologically modern and advanced system, which, in my view, will also mean a minor financial burden. I am not at all opposed to discussing the tax treatment of costs associated with the acquisition of equipment that will serve to e-book sales. I think that is a matter that is undoubtedly for discussion. I just remind you that when we approved a number of years ago of acquiring registers, even there it was possible to accelerate the acquisition of such cash registers, to take account of the accelerated depreciation of these cash registers. So there has already been a possibility of fiscal consideration, and I think that would be appropriate here as well. [[15.30 hours]] As regards the preparation of the technical solution, on 9 March the Government took note of the information on the planned above-limit public procurement. So we got information from the Treasury that this exception was being prepared. The contract is subject to an exemption under Section 18 of the Public Procurement Act. The contract does not have to be public, because within it it is handled with information classified under the law. According to the information received, this contract should be awarded to the Treasury - the Shared Services Centre, which is a state enterprise established by the Ministry of Finance. So the point is that this contract will be provided within the government sector. It is not a contract that should be determined by one of the private companies. As far as the exact timing of this contract is concerned, I refer here to the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, because at the moment it will be his responsibility to comply with the applicable legislation and in accordance with the applicable legislation. So much for a very brief remark on electronic record of sales. And I would also like to mention one more thing. If you look at the politics of our government and look at the policies of our governments in the past, it's not true that we're harming businessmen. It's not true. At a time when I was Minister of Finance, expenditure limits were introduced or increased, flat-rate limits that tradesmen can apply, and, in principle, in this form they still apply them to this day. This was a measure that was for the benefit of small entrepreneurs and for the benefit of businessmen. So I reject a flat-rate claim that we're trying to harm businessmen. Maybe the e-booking measures will be rejected by those who cut taxes, but I think that if someone cuts taxes, it's unfair to the other taxpayers who pay taxes. Just someone who cuts taxes uses an unfair advantage within his business, and electronic sales records should contribute to a fair environment in this area as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u53	I thank and ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u54	I'm only allowed a short time for the Prime Minister and really now more of a financial character. You admitted that, say, the software and hardware that will be purchased could be in some tax advantage regime. But please, and I was so freaked out today about this article by Vice Prime Minister Babiš - it's not true that it cost the businessman, the businessman. If I can count it as a load, it still costs me 80 percent! And if the Minister of Finance dares say it won't cost anything, he's either bullshitting you or talking to the public! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u55	I'm asking the Prime Minister for a reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u56	I think we must still have an interesting heated debate in the Chamber of Deputies. I am looking forward to our government submitting the e-booking of sales law here, and I hope that it will be really soon for us to have sufficient time for this debate, too, because I see the request of opposition parties to discuss this for a long time on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, as I have also noted today. This is definitely the standard that deserves the debate, and I also want to promise the Chamber of Deputies that we will not be declaring a state of legislative emergency for this to discuss the e-booking bill of sales here, but it should go through a standard legislative process here. Similarly, we insist that the law be passed by the Legislative Council of the Government, so that it is discussed enough before it is submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, entrepreneurs will have to buy equipment that allows them to record their sales electronically. I am convinced that it will be cheaper than if they were to purchase registers that work in Slovakia. And we're going to have a debate, and we're going to lead it to the government, how to take account of this entrepreneur's cargo from the point of view of its tax liability. So in any case, it will be a load that should be taken into account. Either it will be taken into account in a standard way from the tax point of view, or it will be taken into account in some extraordinary way in which the government will support the acquisition of these facilities, and we will have a debate on this within the government and the government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u57	Thank you for your reply, and now I am asking for another microphone, and that is Mr Karamazov. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u58	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to interpel you on the matter of illegal storage of ammunition in Slatina near Vysoké Mýto in Pardubice Region. In this case, I, as an MP elected for the Pardubice Region, am interested in getting more information on the solution to the problem of illegally stored ammunition. These warehouses of Multiagro are estimated to contain hundreds of tons of ammunition. Therefore, I am interested in the following questions: Where will this ammunition be transported and which state authority will ensure this transport and subsequent storage? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u59	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u60	Thank you. Dear Member, honourable Members, at this point we are trying to make order in the storage of ammunition in the Czech Republic. After the explosion in the warehouse in Vrbetice in October last year and there was a repeated explosion, it was a total of two large explosions, so on this basis we decided at the meeting of the Security Council of the State and at the meeting of the government to carry out a flat check on the territory of the Czech Republic on the basis of the registration available to the Police of the Czech Republic. Secondly, we have decided to increase the number of police officers in charge of the agenda of weapons, ammunition and ammunition records in the Czech Republic, because these numbers of police officers have been reduced by up to 40 percent in recent years. The government has already provided funds to increase police officers this year and we will also provide funds for them in the next year's budget. Thirdly, we decided to revise legislation that regulates the conditions for storage of ammunition in the Czech Republic. These are the three concrete measures that are now being implemented in our country. At the same time, ammunition is being removed from Vrbětice and I am glad that we are keeping the promise that we have given to citizens. This means, as far as possible, we are removing ammunition from the premises in Vrbětice in order to remove all ammunition from the premises in Vrbětice. The ammunition is taken away by the companies that own this ammunition, and where it is not possible to arrange transport by these companies, the Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps and this ammunition will be transported to the warehouse of the Army of the Czech Republic in Květná. As far as control in Slatina is concerned, it is part of the control activity that is taking place not only there today, but is taking place throughout the Czech Republic, and when the problem is detected by the Police of the Czech Republic, the Police of the Czech Republic is launching the relevant investigation. I, of course, as Prime Minister, do not have any specific information concerning this particular police investigation. I suppose the police will proceed in accordance with the law in a similar way as Vrbětice. This means, in the event that its owner does not take care of the ammunition, that its owner will not take care of it and there will be a threat problem, the transfer of the ammunition will be taken care of by the Police of the Czech Republic under the regime of the relevant law. We have not inherited any prepared warehouses in the Czech Republic for such a situation. The area in the May Army of the Czech Republic wanted to sell. We suspended the sale and the Army of the Czech Republic adapted it and the Ministry of Defence adapted the warehouse in May so that we could possibly store ammunition there, which its owners would not be able to store safely elsewhere. So we have created a backup place within the Czech Republic that will serve to ensure that we are safely there - and I stress safely, for respecting all strict legal parameters under the supervision of the Czech Army, for checking the Police of the Czech Republic - store ammunition that its owners will not be able to take care of under the legal regime. [[15.40 hours]] Primarily, those who own it must take care of the ammunition and at the same time, it is clear that the storage in May will not be free for them. They will have to participate in the reimbursement of the costs and will have to pay for the storage of this ammunition on this premises, which is at the same time an incentive for them to take this ammunition away as soon as they have secured its safe storage. Thus, as far as a specific case is concerned in Slatina, it is part of our system effort to check all ammunition and explosives warehouses in the Czech Republic and ensure that all the regimes that are being introduced by the existing law are respected there. And, of course, when we tighten up the law, the control activity will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u61	I thank and ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. No, thank you. I therefore ask the next in line, and that is Mr Hovorka, to present his intervention on the Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, a memorandum on cooperation between major industrial enterprises in North Moravia recently appeared in public - OKD, Třinecký ironworks, ArcelorMittal Ostrava, Vítkovice, their trade unions, the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic, represented by a member of the Council on Research, Development and Innovation and Self-government of the Moravian-Silesian Region and the Zlín Region. This memorandum aims to ensure stable financing of health services and to maintain the social and health status of existing and former employees of major industrial enterprises in the public health insurance system. The Memorandum points out a long-term decline in coal prices and a decline in mining with impacts on other industries. The authors of the memorandum stress the need to provide health services as the most important pillar of social reconciliation, which requires a timely and timeless solution, which should prevent irreversible political decisions that can dampen the system of more health insurance companies, e.g. the creation of a superinsurer from the VZP, the Health Insurance Office of the Ministry of the Interior and the Military Health Insurance Company. Therefore, the interested parties decided to enforce the intention to build a strong and financially stable health insurance company and to prepare a project to merge the health insurance companies concerned - the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company was probably thinking about the Revírní brámská pojistovna, a health insurance company, in order to ensure the merger by the end of 2015. I was very surprised that the regional authorities represented by the captains of the Moravian-Silesian Region and the Zlín Region appeared among the stakeholders of the memorandum. But both the captains, both Miroslav Novák and doktor Stanislav Mišák, have very strongly distanced themselves from this memorandum and have stated that they have not been consulted by anyone. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Obviously, this is a very thoughtful attempt to promote the purposeful merger of health insurance companies, the Czech Industrial Health and the Revival Brotherly Health Insurance Corporation, and to gain political support for this purpose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u63	[[He's coming in.]] Mr. Ambassador, I'm really sorry, but the time limits need to be respected for your colleagues to have the same chance. [[Mr. Caller says thank you.]] I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u64	Thank you. Dear Member, I must say that I am actually very impressed by the whole memorandum action. My information on this matter is similar to yours. The authorities of both regions distanced themselves from signing such a memorandum at any time. Apparently, the Revival Brother's Treasury is also distanced from this, and it is evident that the memorandum was prepared without their knowledge. Apparently, the OKD, which was the instigator of this process, eventually apparently postponed its intention. But that doesn't change the fact that under Law No. 280/1992 Coll. here we have defined a process that addresses the issue of issuing the Ministry of Health's authorisation after the Ministry of Finance's opinion on the question of merging health insurance companies. This is a procedure which is subject to general administrative rules. Of course, for this reason, it is also not possible to intervene in this proceeding. The Ministry of Health is responsible for issuing the merger decision and must deal with all the facts of the parties mentioned and the reasons for granting or not granting the authorisation in the course of the proceedings, duly explain the reasons for this decision. In the event that the merger of both insurance companies would not comply with the conditions which the insurance companies are obliged to fulfil - the Ministry of Health is obliged to review the conditions - this would be taken into account and no authorisation would be granted. I also requested a statement from the Ministry of Finance, which has already stated for a similar question that the possible merger of these two insurance companies does not support. So at this point, I do not see on the part of the state administration the arguments and the reasons why the state administration should support the merger of health insurance companies that you described.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u65	Thank you. I'm asking the MP... He doesn't want to ask a follow-up question. So please take the next step, and that is Mr. Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. I have now had to correct the question a little bit, because some of the government's actions in relation to ammunition storage have already been explained in the interpellation of my colleague Karamazov. But in spite of all this, I think that Vrbětice is a very specific case, which has been discussed several times here in the Chamber of Deputies, both in the area of the crisis plan and in the area of deployment of units, in the area of the causes of the incident itself. Vrbětice are constantly a crime scene where an investigation takes place, in a state that does not constitute a normal life in this area. I would ask very much whether we would not vrbětice heard the Prime Minister's position directly on the next steps of the government to accompany this development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u67	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u68	Thank you. Dear Member, very briefly. Perhaps some information that has not yet been heard during today's interpellations. First of all, Vrbětice. Currently, more than 55 trucks have been exported from Vrbětice according to the information I received and over 700 tonnes of material have been exported. On 9 March this year, the government decided to release 47 million. CZK for further works in connection with the disposal of unexploded ammunition in the area of ammunition warehouses in Vrbětice. So here the government continues to fulfill its commitment to protect the health and lives of citizens and to clean up the entire ammunition warehouse. The money is intended primarily for the wages of firefighters, police officers and other expenses for the cleaning of ammunition premises as well as for the security of the building. Here we have no choice but to sigh at the fact that in the past, the state administration has allowed such accumulation of ammunition on the premises of Vrbetice, because the costs that are now linked to the solution of this situation will be considerable and will undoubtedly reach not tens of millions of crowns, but in total probably several hundred million crowns, which will have to be spent by the state in connection with the solution of the explosions that occurred in Vrbetice. The first trucks from Vrbětice to May set off on March 7. As I have already mentioned, the government has also decided that if it is not possible to conclude lease contracts for the storage of ammunition or explosives in May between their private owners and the Army of the Czech Republic, respectively. By the Ministry of Defence, these explosives will be exported from the premises of Vrbětice under evacuation mode from the command of the commander of the intervention. We do not want us to be blocked by a potential agreement between the owners of ammunition and the Ministry of Defence, and we want to keep the pace of remedial work and the removal of ammunition in the area in Vrbetice. [[15.50 hours]] So much for the matter of Vrbětice, very briefly. Perhaps I would still comment on the question of the overall response. I would like to stress that, by 30 June this year, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Czech Mining Authority will be presented to the Government with amendments to the Act on Weapons, the Act on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration as well as the Fire Protection Act. Proposals for new implementing legislation will then be drawn up. In principle, all implementing legislation on arms law will be affected, i.e. a total of seven decrees and regulations of the Government, at least one new implementing legislation will be drawn up specifically for ammunition. This legislation will newly lay down a special arrangements for the storage of ammunition, its security, registration. It is necessary to count on technical regulations in the sense of European law in general, so I would like to remind you that their notification will also need to be implemented, i.e. they will be sent to the European Commission for notification, for which it will probably take about a hundred-day notification period. I firmly believe that we will be able to complete this process during this year and will be able to adapt the relevant legislation. In parallel with the preparation of implementing legislation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment, the need for an amendment to the Act on the Prevention of Major Accidents will be considered and, if necessary, this amendment will also be prepared. At present, an amendment to the Fire Protection Act and an amendment to the Fire Protection Act are also being discussed on the soil of the Ministry of the Interior. So much for the government's response to the situation in Vrbětice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u69	Thank you. The Member is not interested in the supplementary question, so I will ask another in turn, and this is Mrs Němcová, to present her intervention. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u70	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I am referring to you on the remarks made by a member of your government by the Minister of Regional Development, who recently confided on her Facebook to her fans that during her work at the Ministry of Regional Development, she is coming to serious information that shows, politely speaking, the inhospitability of some of the governors in drawing funds from regional programs, but that there is much more, and that what is more, she cannot fit on Facebook, but she keeps it all in the safe for sure. I want to ask you if you think it's right that a member of your government should instead, when faced with facts that should rather report to law enforcement authorities, put these facts in his safe and save them for some convenient time to use them, and I don't want to say how. Secondly, I would like to ask you whether you have met with the Minister in person or whether you have asked her or if you do not have time for a personal meeting to explain in writing what she meant by that statement. And thirdly, I want to ask you if you think it's normal for a democratic country to sit in government by a person who conducts such activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u71	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u72	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, I believe, first of all, that Minister Šlechtová is really busy at the Ministry of Regional Development and has a lot of things to finish this year. We have already talked today about the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, which is therefore not one of the favorites in terms of the European Commission's approval rate, i.e. This will probably not be the very first operational programme that we can run, and it would certainly be in the interest of the Ministry of Regional Development, so that the Ministry, which is in charge of coordinating the European Union's use of funds at all, is not the very last in terms of its own operational programme. It is also Mrs Šlechtová's task to prepare a new law on public procurement. It has the task of preparing an amendment to the construction law, where the construction proceedings, the territorial proceedings and the authorisation of the EIA should be merged. It is to participate in the preparation of the social housing law. So there's really a lot of these things. I am convinced of this, and I insist that the Minister should spend less time on social networks and more time on the Ministry's agenda, because apparently the social media stay is rather a complication. I had the opportunity to speak personally with Minister Šlechtová on this matter at the meeting of the Coalition Council, and I also sent her a letter, Minister Šlechtová, and in that letter I asked her to report to the authorities active in criminal proceedings any information and suspicions of committing an offence or offence if this was the case. So I have told her my conviction that if she, as a member of the government, obtains information that suggests criminal activities, she should immediately contact the law enforcement authorities. At the same time, I asked the Minister in this letter of mine to inform her by the end of April of the specific steps she had taken in the event of her suspicions, if these suspicions, which she had raised on social networks, are reported. So summarized and underlined, I believe that the Minister should behave in a different way, that he should not mention safes, but if, in his work, he encounters things that may be suspected of committing any crime, he should proceed transparently, he should turn to the Police of the Czech Republic and should not be part of any political struggle or medialisation of a similar type. I asked the Minister for this in person, so I asked her in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u73	I thank and ask the honourable Member whether she wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u74	Of course, Prime Minister, I welcome the fact that you spoke to the Minister. I hope she understands what you're actually saying to her, because I'm afraid that if you didn't share it with her on Facebook, she doesn't really understand and understand the other normal channels, so I hope she understood them well this time, and that she'll keep an eye on what belongs to a member of the government, how to behave and how to perform, not just in public, but all her work. She says: It is a pity that there are no public talks of government and that citizens really do not see how the coalition works in reality. So I think it's for another debate, I won't have time, and neither will you, so that we don't have that question about how the coalition works in reality, and it's a shame that we don't know how it works for the government to talk about it another time. We will find another space and ask you these questions, but thank you for your answers so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u75	Thank you and please Mr... No answer. Okay. We have two minutes until four o'clock, and I would at this point, if you agree, not to open another interpelation, just to clarify an apology for the steno. Mr Jaroslav Holík, Mr Pavel Holík, is present. As 16 o'clock falls every second, I warn the Chamber of Deputies that there will now be oral intervention on other members of the government. Before we pick the first one in line, I'll hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with oral interpelations according to the winning order of each member of the government. The first interviewing Member is Mr Ladislav Velebný, who intersects the absent Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. The Minister is excused for business reasons. Please do your patronage. You will have the answer within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, the Moravian-Silesian Region, in cooperation with the Association for the Construction of Communication I/11 and other entities, has long sought to include the Ostrava-Opava-Krnov-Bartultovice-Opole road and rail corridor into the global TEN-T network by 2050. In addition to this corridor, it was supported by its resolution by the Representation of both the Moravian-Silesian Region, the Representation of the Žilinski Self-governing Region, and the Opole Voivodship, including the Council of the powiat Prudnik. In this sense, declarations were concluded between the Moravian-Silesian Region, the Žilin self-governing Region and the Opole Voivodship. As you probably know, the European institutions were adopted by the end of 2013. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 1315/2013, on the Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network. This Regulation clearly supports the cross-border merger of the EU States, which is in line with this intention. So, Minister, my questions are: will your Ministry of Transport support this intention in reviewing the trans-European transport networks to be carried out on EU soil in 2016? And the second question. How is the Ministry of Transport prepared for this revision, which will take place next year and what steps have you already taken?. Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u78	Thank you, Mr Velebný, for almost keeping up with the time for interpelation. Mr Petr Bendl, who is intersecting Minister Marian Jurečka, is now taking the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to welcome the Minister of Agriculture among us. He visited us for the first time in this meeting. It is a good thing that he came to at least an interview, even though he was not on the laws relating directly to the Ministry of Agriculture, during the discussion of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture because he has been and is also active, as is the Minister of Regional Development, on Facebook, and there I have registered his significant reservations regarding the use of registers. And I thought, well, hooray, at least somebody understood that thousands of businessmen working in this area, in the Department of Agriculture, maybe they'd applaud their minister, that he finally realized that it was about the liquidation of small businessmen and that it was actually an effort to drive everyone into employment. Instead, I found out today that he no longer has those reservations on Facebook. Perhaps, after translating the bills at the government's meeting, when the Minister of Finance is in conflict of interest, I will say there for the Minister of Finance, he defends his bills, that he may have already understood that the registers are correct, and I want to ask the Minister of Agriculture, as it is, whether, as the first Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL supports the introduction of registration cash registers or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u80	I thank Mr Bendl and ask the Minister of Agriculture to take his word for an answer to this interpelation. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Bendle, through Mr President, I must say that my apology was proper - for work reasons, because yesterday and today three very important NGOs in my department, two of which had an electoral council - local action groups, the Agrarian Chamber, so that is why I apologized and I was still spending the afternoon at the Republic Council of the Association of Private Agriculture, so I consider it important enough for the Minister to use his right to apologise. Just to explain why I couldn't be here. However, to your particular interpelation. My statements are still equally consistent. I signed the coalition agreement, and I'm aware of what I signed in the coalition agreement. And with the need to put in place an electronic record of sales, or the public register, so I am not avoiding this and I am applying to that responsibility, but it is a question of the extent to which, in terms of the areas, in which the turnover groups and how, if any, the state will compensate or in some way cover the costs that will be associated with this, if any, for businessmen and legal persons, I have also applied as a commentary from the Ministry of Agriculture in relation to the Ministry of Finance, that I lack a thorough analysis of these things, which I have now listed in brief, and without this analysis I personally cannot imagine that it is possible to proceed in the discussion and setting up of this system in the Czech Republic. So it's still the same, consistent, and I expect the Ministry of Finance to be clear about this as part of the settlement of the interdepartmental commentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u82	Thank you, Minister. Yes, there is an interest in an additional question for Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u83	Thank you. I know from my own experience, Minister of Agriculture, that there is no need to devote 12 hours a day to the negotiations of any major association or the Agrarian Chamber, that everyone will understand if you attend an hour, an hour and a half and then visit the Chamber of Deputies meetings and discuss the laws relating to the Ministry of Agriculture, because here is your responsibility in particular. But you seem to understand differently. Okay. Just a follow-up question. Until you get the analysis, if you've been promised it, and if you publish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u84	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have two minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u85	Yes, thank you. I'd love to. I would just point out that I do not spend all day there, but since it was in two days and one of these events took place in Zábřeh, Moravia, the other in Olomouc and the third in Vysočina, it is also logically necessary to calculate time for transport from Prague, back, Prague to Olomouc etc. So only so much to explain, but I don't think that's the point of leading this controversy here. Of course, I said that if I didn't have good evidence and we didn't have a good enough discussion of all the connections to the adoption of this law, I said it publicly, and that means that I will not raise my hand for a semi-finished product that isn't properly prepared. Of course, the moment I get the studies or the settlement, I have no problem publishing it, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u86	I thank the Minister for his additional reply. Interpelation is over. The words will now be taken by Mr. Jiří Petrů, who intersects the absent Minister Karla Šlechtová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u87	Yes, thank you, Mr President. My intervention concerns the implementation of the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund from the 2007-2013 programming period. The last monitoring report of 7 January of this year, available on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development, states that the total allocation for the period 2007-2013 of 689,2 billion. applications of 473,9 billion are sent to the European Commission. CZK, which amounts to 68,8% of the allocation. However, it is not clear from this monitoring report that the amount of reimbursement of funds paid out, we call it certified, by the European Commission, into the Ministry of Finance's budget. The question therefore points to this fact. [[16.10 hours]] In its press release of 10 February this year, the Minister then informed the Czech Republic that this year, the Czech Republic may not exceed up to 85 billion from European funds. CZK, because in the planning period 2014-2020, the Czech Republic no longer draws them. This information was related to the probably end of the programming period. I would therefore welcome more detailed information on the reasons for this communication, as well as information on the measures implemented by the Ministry of Regional Development, so that the funds ending the programming period are exhausted. The last question then concerns the control of the sustainability of projects for the 2007-2014 programming period. This is at least five years after the completion of the projects and the control will require sufficient staffing especially for regional operational programmes. It can be assumed that more regional experts will look elsewhere in the new planning period due to the absence of regional operational programmes in the 2014-2020 programming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u88	I thank Mr Jiří Petr. You'll get the answer, Mr. Ambassador, within 30 days. We are now going to interpel Mr Michal Kučera to Mr Took's absent and duly excused Minister of Transport. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u89	Hello. Thank you for your word. The minister apologized for work reasons, I don't think that's what this is. Dear unknown Minister Took, I hope to be able to get to know you other than from the TV screens, that you will sometimes visit us in the Chamber of Deputies or perhaps come to the Economic Committee. So far, I've only had a chance to see you at a press conference yesterday, when I was terrified to hear that you wanted to complete R7's speed communication through the involvement of private sector finance, so-called. PPP project. I understand that PPP projects have a future and have a place in the construction of a road network in the Czech Republic. But why did you choose the very hard tested Ústí region for this experiment? PPP projects are not prepared, no legislation is processed. In other words, you are telling us that you want to postpone the completion of the R7 Prague-Chomutov expressway. Do you realise, Minister, that R7 is crucial for the development of a region with 300,000 permanent residents and for tens of thousands of other people who use the region for work and leisure activities? This is a region with one of the highest unemployment rates in the Czech Republic. In some parts, unemployment is more than 16 percent of the working population. The unemployment rate can be solved by investing new investors in industrial zones of the region, respectively. promoting small and medium-sized enterprises, where quality transport accessibility is a necessary condition, which is also closely linked to the availability of other public services, especially health care. I would like to ask you, Minister, to quickly begin the completion of the R7's death road with great accident, to take note of the calls and memoranda of the representatives of the authorities, and to quickly begin the completion of the R7's expressway without any further delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u90	Thank you. I ask my fellow Members to respect the time limit. The answer will certainly be delivered within 30 days. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, Vice-President of the Government, is now intersecting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u91	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing Mr. Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. Mr Vice-President, I come up with an interview on the Government's intention to introduce register registers for businessmen. In this matter, some of my colleagues have already intersected the Prime Minister in the previous block. I am well aware that there has already been an attempt to introduce such equipment and the Civil Democratic Party, and then I, too, personally disagreed with it and protested against it. For this reason, it seems to me very inconvenient and not good that hundreds of thousands of honest entrepreneurs are going to be bullied because of announced higher tax collections of CZK 10 billion. In my interview, I would like to focus on those who are doing a really small business, the really small businessmen. Those retirees who earn their pension through small businesses, or moms on parental leave, who also intend to make extra money from their small businesses after the afternoons. My question is whether the government has a processed analysis of the impact of the introduction of registers on businessmen. And the second question is whether there is material at the level of the government or your ministry that would say how many more businessmen can no longer bear. How many of them simply end their business under these conditions, and that will deprive them of quite a good income. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u92	Thank you and please the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, Babiš, to respond to this interpelation. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling this is still a big misunderstanding. 'Cause I don't know why you keep talking about register offices. No one's running any registers. It doesn't concern businessmen or pensioners or moms. So I don't really know if I'm gonna send any analysis. Today it's in Law, I've read it before, I can read it again. It's a measure against cutting sales. This means that those who cut revenue steal from citizens, because they pretend to pay taxes and not pay taxes, and then they actually do business unfairly, because those who pay taxes - they have a competitive advantage over them. And that's what we want to change. We want a level playing field for everyone. The grey economy in the Czech Republic accounts for about 15 percent of GDP, about CZK 82 billion. We have analyzed everywhere in Europe what systems are, what obligations are for sellers, customers. Since we have some development in systems and electronics, so simply the model that we want to introduce and which is known to our citizens from vacations in Croatia is the best. I'm sure the owner of Vítkovice Tours didn't know that when Mr Honek told me in 2012, what a good system it would do here. Now I feel that this has become the main program in the Antibabiš program, and now the main program is the record of sales. And there's still talk of registering cashiers. Here and Mr Skopeček - I don't know how to say this anymore, that these are not registers and that it is indeed a measure that the market - which is fair. And when they introduced it in Croatia, 93 percent of the citizens there supported it. According to our research and according to the Chamber of Commerce, according to the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders - everyone supports this. I really don't know what the problem is. So we're making comments now, they'll be ready by March 27th. Of course there are also questions within the coalition, we did impact studies on this. By the way, we also did an impact study on the contract register. I don't know who took what from the study. When the Ministry of Interior says he'll register the contract in five minutes, and the ÚOHS says in four hours, in the village of Planá they say it's going to cost CZK 1,500 and elsewhere they say it's going to be CZK 30, I don't know what such studies are for. The state's bureaucracy works - on those studies, the commission, still something. And I'm sure we'll present it in the settlement process, and the implications, today we've already talked about it in the interpellation with Mr. Stanjura, so we only want the one-off tax discount for the natural person who's supposed to compensate for the cost of purchasing the software. The amount of the discount will be limited by some amount, we do not yet know what it is, and will apply for the year it enters the system. [[16.20 hours]] Just for your information, for example, in Croatia, at the largest retail chain, the consumer has estimated the cargo at EUR 5. Even the software was on the networks and users downloaded it for free. We try to do different presentations, but if you don't want to hear, you can't hear. Here are the machines, here are the prices, what it costs, 5,000 crowns, really, they're small sums. And again, it's not a register. It's an existing cash register, for example, here in our bar, or whatever it is, a buffet that just connects with the financial office and gets a number. That's all. [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] I don't know what's funny about that. So -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u94	Thank you, Minister, five minutes are up. [[Has it been five minutes?]] The Member shall ask an additional question. You'll have two more minutes. [[Okay, I'm sorry.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador. You have one minute to ask the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u95	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Minister, you can call the idea, the idea, whatever the names are, but the truth is, and in that is its real materialization for businessmen, they will have to buy - many do not - the register box, they will have to connect it to your ministry and ensure its operation. And that is a huge load not only of material but also of spirituality for these people. And with Croatia, please don't scare us. It has half the economy to us and twice the level of the unsolicited grey economy. So I think that's actually another tool you want to bully those petty businessmen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u96	Thank you. Does the Minister want a follow-up answer? Yes. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u97	This is a debate with the deaf mute. That's hard. If anyone talks about businessmen all the time, talk about businessmen. It doesn't really involve any businessmen. Why are you talking about businessmen? These are restaurants and retail. Stone shops, by the way. Also, Vietnamec, who, as we know, do not pay taxes. So why are you talking about businessmen? It doesn't concern them at all. What are you talking about? And here are the devices, Mr. Colleague. I'll photograph it for you. These little devices. Even in Croatia, there was huge competition. They gave it to mobile operators, 570 crowns a month. And they're counting it off the tax base. And they're only natural persons. So please don't talk about registering cashiers and don't talk about businessmen. It's not about businessmen. It's not. It's about those who cut sales and actually rob people because they pretend to pay taxes, and they don't pay, and they don't do bad things to other people who do business by paying taxes. And by doing so, we want to reduce the tax. You raised taxes, so we want to reduce VAT. So it would be a good idea for us to agree on terms. Yeah? They're not cash registers, they're not businessmen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u98	Thank you, Minister. There's gonna be a few more of these, and we're gonna talk about this even longer. Now, Mr Ladislav Šincl, on measures against tax evasion in alcohol. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, first of all, I must say that you have come to the interview today. It's quite a rare thing. That's why I would take this rare opportunity to ask about my interpellation. In almost every public appearance, you tell the public how much you care about improved tax collection and how many different measures you have prepared against tax evasion. You have been in your office for a long time, but the results are not very dazzling in my opinion. There are certainly reserves in many areas at the Ministry of Finance. One of the areas where you should step up the fight against tax evasion is the area of alcohol, the collection of excise duty on alcohol and barrel wine. I think it would be a good idea for you to have a detailed analysis of all the measures that the Ministry of Finance is going to carry out following the revelations brought about by the so-called methanol affair and later the criminal trial with its actors. I wonder what measures you have prepared that could lead to the modernisation of collections and other instruments of alcohol tax and security records so that the state can better face technologically efforts to forge them, to sell them illegally, and to tax evasion. I believe that the right way would be to introduce the same rule for alcohol control tapes as for example tobacco products, namely that the stamp is paid to the State in advance. The control tape would become a price that already includes the excise duty in itself. This measure would be much more effective and would prevent robbing the State through various frauds with control tapes and subsequent non-payment of excise duty. I'm interested in your opinion of this idea, of this opinion of me. Why is it different for one subject of excise duty, it is tobacco, in this way and for another subject of excise duty, or at the end of the chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u100	Thank you. I will ask the Minister of Finance and the Vice-President of the Government to answer this question to Mr Šincl. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Well, of course, we had an alcoholic affair here. It's interesting how well customs worked there. I also inherited the Customs Administration in some condition, there are several criminal reports, GIBS is investigating it. We had a nice affair here, Zadeh, who robbed us by about 4.5 billion. So the Customs Service is also in some kind of state, I don't know who ran it before, if at all. So I'm sure this issue is subject to our investigation, because there has been a restriction on the size of consumer packaging of alcohol, the introduction of a new system of registration of manufacturers, importers and distributors of alcohol with tightened entry requirements, including the obligation to provide bail, the introduction of the obligation of end sellers to buy spirits only from registered operators, the tightening of rules for the handling of control tapes to prevent their abuse on the black market, including the penalty for their loss or destruction at the level of excise duty and the introduction of new control tapes with better protective features or the establishment of a number of rules and restrictions aimed at eliminating the sale of illegal alcohol in restaurants and other similar businesses. The technical amendment was implemented with effect from 1 January 2015. In addition, a number of non-legislative measures were implemented in particular by methodological nature within the scope of the activities of the customs authorities of the Czech Republic. Another measure against tax evasion for alcohol is the disposal of spirits. It is only possible with the participation of the tax administrator. Entities shall at any time be required to demonstrate the taxation and legality of the holding of alcohol by the required documents. The conditions for the production of alcohol and spirits are further specified in Law No 61/1997 Coll., on Alcohol, as amended, which is in the gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture. This law follows the decree of the Ministry of Finance and the second decree of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Alcohol Act provides for further precise registration, provides for denaturants for the misuse of alcohol, gauges and the like, notification of the sale of spirits at a price lower than the price corresponding to the sum of the amount of excise duty and its corresponding amounts of value added tax, tax authorities prior to the sale, and the possibility of non-recognition of exemption of specially denatured alcohol under the regulation of another Member State which has been used in the product and has subsequently been shown to be abused. About paying excise duty, that's the subject that's on the table right now. We certainly - there is a different situation than with cigarettes, where there is actually only one producer, and here, of course, it is a question of negotiation and opinion, to what extent we will endanger manufacturers of spirits, those who pay taxes and who behave politely and legally and endanger their cash flow, event. their business and event. employment. So that's the subject of analysis. The Prime Minister has also recently commented on this, so we are currently analysing it, we are discussing it with the producers and we will put it to debate. [[16.30 hours]] About wine. Of course, wine is a big problem that is not dealt with in the long run. I don't know why, maybe you could tell me why so many things haven't been dealt with in the past. The so-called maraging of wine, consumer deception and violation of the prescribed quality of food. This falls within the competence of the Minister of Agriculture and the excise duty rate is zero, so it is income and VAT tax when it comes to tax evasion. So we are taking measures in the area of coordination of the relevant supervisory authorities, the CHOI, tax and customs administrations, and, of course, we are also looking into the surrounding states. So we found out that for example. in Hungary there is a more efficient system than in our country. So we're going to come up with a proposal for this long-term unsolved problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u102	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Mr Šincl is reporting a supplementary question. Please, Ambassador, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, you told me, you told me that this was a subject of investigation. You've been looking at this for over a year, I think it's a long time to explore. And I don't know if you understand. I asked you about your opinion that the excise duty on alcohol would have been levied before, as is the case with tobacco products. Whether you recommend it or not. Your answer so far was that you cared more about cash flow manufacturers of alcohol products than about collecting excise duty, if that's how I understood it. I think that the Minister of Finance should be a little on the contrary, that you might be more concerned with the collection of excise duty than with the cash flow of alcohol manufacturers. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u104	Thank you for the additional question. Mr. Finance Minister to his answer, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u105	Thank you. I'm sure what matters to me is that those who do business in this country, pay taxes and employ people, don't liquidate measures. And if you don't understand, I'll repeat it. I do not think that dozens of our producers who produce and pay taxes on time should pay excise duty in the same way as tobacco. So I don't think so, and if that's what you think, then I'm gonna be happy with the debate and we're gonna tell each other what it's gonna bring us. According to our Customs and Financial Administration, it's not gonna bring us anything, except we're gonna put those manufacturers in jeopardy here who do their business by law and pay taxes, excise duty, on time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u106	Thank you, Minister of Finance. We will continue to interpel to the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government, by interpelling Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, a year ago, you responded to my question about the amendment to Decree No. 278/1998 Coll. This decree is crucial for the system of balancing interest differences in pro-export loans to work. A year ago, this decree was not in the world and it is not today. By your inaction, by your inaction, Minister, you have damaged our exporters. They were deprived of the standard export support tool used in developed countries. I would like to remind you that during the last parliamentary term, I, as a Member, have advocated the amendment of the Act on Insurance and Export Financing with State Support. This amendment has received support across the political spectrum and has already taken effect in 2013, Minister. Unfortunately, without the implementing decree, the system of matching interest differences cannot be initiated. The state budget for 2014 counted on this support of Czech exporters and employers and had resources allocated to it, which were ultimately not used for this purpose. I therefore ask you to explain what you have done in your office all year to ensure that this decree is issued, what you have succeeded in carrying out in this area. I ask you to state why you have not yet issued the necessary amendment to the decree and when you intend to remedy it. [[The President speaks to the Member at the same time: Thank you. Madam, if that is the case, do so in the supplementary question.]] You should also justify why our exporters are disadvantaged by the absence of this export tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u108	Please, let us respect the time for individual actors of oral intervention. The Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In terms of the conflict of interest law, I want to report a conflict of interest first, because my company is the fourth largest Czech exporter, it exports for 87 billion, so I think I know something about the export. So I just want to tell you that I didn't issue the decree and I won't, because the decree is meaningless, because the decree would only help banks, and it wouldn't help any Czech exporters. And making this hedge at a time when the euro deposit is actually negative, when the Czech Republic is one of the best in Europe, we have ten-year bonds for 0.4, and where banks are loaded with money and they are happy to lend - so simply why should we actually subsidize this today? I don't see why. Then, if the interest goes up later, the state budget will pay it all. And if the state budget didn't use it, that's good news, we saved it, and I'm glad it did. So I definitely have a major problem with that, and I don't see why I would do that. We inherited mainly one of the biggest troubles and this is the Czech Export Bank. There we have a big problem, a big problem impact on EGAP. So the fact that someone went to the supermarket and the state actually covered everything up and paid 97.5 percent and some of our exporters exported it and it was brutally stolen there, the police intervened that there were fake documents etc., so we can talk about it some other time, about export, as it was organized here. So I don't see why the state should subsidize this today. I think banks make good money, and I don't know why we should contribute even more to hedge. So I don't see any sense in it, and I'm not making a decree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u110	Thank you, the Minister didn't even take time. The Member shall complete her question in one minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u111	Minister, that is a standard instrument. If you do not do so, I hope you are aware that you are in violation of the Constitution. You're the minister. If the law is valid and you don't agree with it, you have the opportunity to submit an amendment to the law. But the law is in force, and you have an obligation to issue the decree. If you do not do so, you are violating your constitutional duties. I don't know if you're aware of that. I understand that you are disoriented in some matters about your duties, but you are a minister who is obliged to comply with the laws of this state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u112	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister of Finance will answer the supplementary question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u113	Thank you for the information. Well, I'll keep an eye on my lawyers, and I'll take care of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u114	I thank the Minister and we have the opportunity to move forward. Now, Mr Martin Novotný is still on the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister on electronic sales records. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u115	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I originally wanted to ask another aspect of this issue, but there was one important sentence in the discussion that I wanted to catch on with and ask if it was really meant to be. We often lack analytical materials for the concept of electronic sales records, and we cannot be surprised that we are asking a number of questions because we do not see the concept in front of us. The Minister of Finance has just said here a sentence traceable in the tapestry that the system will not involve tradesmen. For this category, we have the take-off legal concept of a self-employed person. It includes a wide range of various activities in the Czech economy. I want to simply and simply ask if this sentence was meant seriously, authoritarianly, and if we are to assume that the self-employed person will not be involved in any way and in any aspect. That's one question. [[16.40 hours]] The other one is very practical. It's about the sentence that the cashier at the cafeteria in the Chamber of Deputies is just gonna connect to the Internet. Well, I want to ask the Minister if the ladies at the cafeteria asked if their cash register was available on the Internet. We live in a time when Internet development theorists say that we will soon live in a time of so-called Internet things that everything will be connected on the Internet. I assure you, today, if you try to connect a vacuum cleaner or an Internet iron, you won't make it. I'm afraid the cash register that's at the cafeteria today is the same for now. So I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance if he's consulted the cafeteria vendors in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u116	Thank you for the interpelation questions. The Minister of Finance has five minutes to answer the questions asked. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. You're talking about businessmen, register cashiers. I'm talking about retail, restaurants and hotels. So, of course, we all know about the retail market here, and the fact that there's probably a few businessmen, I guess. But don't tell me it's about businessmen. You're always talking about businessmen. I say it's retail, restaurants and hotels. You still interpret it politically that we have something against businessmen. We got nothing, we got nothing. On the contrary, it is for them, for individuals, that we want to do the relief. We don't want to do them for big companies, but for them, just for individuals. And if this is about this buffet, I don't think it's gonna even concern him. So it's within the specs of those subjects that are going to be involved. And if this is about the cafeteria? I don't know, but probably not, 'cause we're aiming for the big ones. For the 10 billion. cutting sales. If we count it to 10 billion. And we're only collecting 1.6 billion, so I guess we've got a problem here. So if the ODS MP is interested, I'm happy to come with Deputy Secretary Hornochová and give you a special presentation. If that's an interest, if it's not just as always a political declaration. And I thought the ODS was interested in collecting taxes here, to lower taxes, and to compete objectively here on the market so that we wouldn't have those who don't pay taxes. You probably want to support those who don't pay taxes that cheat here, or I don't understand the grievances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u118	Thank you. Mr Novotný is interested in an additional question. The Minister of Finance saves time for further interpelling, which is advantageous for colleagues. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u119	Maybe I'm just making a follow-up remark. I am interested in the question to measure the inclusion of businessmen in the system because, when their organisation, association, through the mouth of their management, they express themselves in a very positive and supportive way, and at the same time when they do an internal survey of how many of their members think that their activities should be affected and could possibly endanger them, so from the point of view of the membership base they are 70 percent against and they think that they should not be involved. I just want to conclude by saying that the reality will show how many self-employed people will eventually be in that system and how much it will put them at risk. And the challenge that we will be presented with a presentation will be of interest to us and we will be happy to participate in something like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u120	Thank you. Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš will complete his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know where a fellow Member gets the statistics. Mr. Havlíček, President of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, Mr. Danda was with me this morning and everyone supports it. And they have research to do it. Even the association will do its web site. So I don't know where you guys go on those polls. They have a clear survey that their members support it. So we can meet them together. We did a seminar for the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Dlouhý also supports it, everyone supports it, only you have a problem with it. So let's meet together and they'll explain if you don't believe me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u122	Thank you, Minister of Finance. We will continue to do so with regard to the impact of electronic sales records on tradesmen by interpelling Mr Vladislav Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u123	Dear Minister, I see the word "businessman" doesn't carry around much. And I don't want to debate whether he's a taxpayer on income from self-employment or a businessman. It's one and the same. But what I'd like to say is that they're confusing terms here, and even sums. I originally wanted to ask you something else, but I'll ask you that in the supplementary question. But the Minister said that the taxpayers paid only 1.6 billion for the income tax on self-employment last year. Crowns. Minister, perhaps you could verify the data more, because this is an indication that concerns the tax return on the basis of a tax return. When I was at the meeting on the budgetary determination of taxes at the Ministry of Finance, the Deputy General Financial Directorate announced last November that it was the businessmen, the self-employed, who paid 9 billion. The rest, these are the tax discounts that people serve there, who have the opportunity to deduct the tax revenues for the course of different income. So I want to ask the real question, and I understand that we will not see the answer, whether there is any analysis of this, even using Croatian experience, how many businessmen, or how many income taxpayers from self-employment are affected. How many of these people will have to end their business because they are already at the limit of economic efficiency. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u124	I thank Mr Vilímc. The Minister of Finance will continue to answer the question. It's not quite exhausted yet, Mr. Secretary. You have many chances. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u125	Mr. Chairman, that was a classic performance by me about the wagon and he about the goat. I said that out of all the restaurants in this country, we got 1.6 billion. CZK per tax. I wasn't talking about businessmen. And within these restaurants there are also businessmen of course, but there are all restaurants there. So the tax return on all restaurants is 1.6 billion. So I'm not talking about businessmen. There are, of course, businessmen in the business. But there are relatively... Yes, we've got it all figured out, we've got the analysis, we can show you, but Mr. Havlíček will tell you all about it, he's got the perfect analysis for details. So instead of getting 10 or 11 billion, we got 1.6 from the honest ones. We want to give the honest ones an advantage, which is why we say: you pay 15% VAT for food, and it's abnormal, and it's a shame that someone hasn't done it in the past when you keep raising VAT, so we want to cut it from 21 percent to 15 percent. We want to lower the tax on those who have paid and who will start paying, because I assume everyone will start paying. There have been miracles in Croatia. There some restaurants went with sales of 500, 600, 700 % per year. A miracle. It was even a joke that if you want to do business successfully in restaurants, contact the financial administration. All of a sudden, they all jumped in. So please, let's really stick to the facts I'm saying. The tax reduction is CZK 400 million. So we expect it to be introduced, that of course we will choose significantly more. And that's why I think, and we can afford and motivate those who start doing it and who do it, and that we want to cut their VAT. I think it has logic. [[16.50 hours]] And they did it in Croatia. You guys can talk dirty about Croatia. I heard the arguments. I'm trying to find positive things abroad, such as the quality of motorways in Croatia. Maybe you've been there before, so look what it looks like. There's good stuff in there. Just because their economy is some kind of economy doesn't mean everything's wrong. So it's the most modern way to record sales in Europe. We've done analyses in every country. We were in Germany, Austria, France. We've asked everywhere. I think it's a major measure against those who are stealing from us all. Budget and people, because they pretend to pay taxes, and they don't. And once again, I support it. The main association, Mr. Havlíček, has absolutely detailed analyses. If you want, I'll give you the research he did. She'll have a special website. There'll be an online line. We'll start online lines, call centers. We'll prep everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u126	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Mr Vilímec will ask an additional question. Please, Ambassador, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u127	Thank you. I understand there's no analysis yet. But I want to ask you another question. If a mandatory person who will also have to be subjected to this electronic record of sales will also be municipalities. Because they also receive cash sales and not only in connection with local or administrative fees, but for certain services such as copying services and so on. Surely you will recognize that municipalities are not exactly those who would be interested in reducing tax obligations simply because tax revenues are mostly the sole income of individual municipalities. I will ask if this electronic recording system will also be implemented by municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u128	Thank you. The Minister has two minutes to respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u129	Thank you, Mr President. I know I'm a stupid rhetor, but I really don't know how to explain to you that copying services are not restaurants and hotels. Repeat. Restaurants, hotels, retail! Retail is Tesco, Billa, Vietnamec. It's not a copy service, Mr. Colleague. Not even a village. Sorry. [[Glee in the hall.]] We'll come to the presentation and show you everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u130	Thank you. The Minister didn't even spend all his time on the supplementary response. Let's keep going. Quiet in the House, please. Another interviewing Member is Mr Václav Klučka, who is having an interview with Minister Milan Chovanec in the Vrbětic case. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it. The Minister has arrived.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u131	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. You said the right thing about Vrbětice, because on the board we only have the Ministry of the Interior's procedure, but it is related - Vrbětice and the future procedure of the Ministry of the Interior in solving this extraordinary event. I have already intersected the Prime Minister, too, and that was from the perspective of the entire government and the legislative work that awaits us in this Chamber of Deputies in connection with this extraordinary event and this tragedy which has met Vrbětice and de facto destroyed the equipment that we used to call the ammunition warehouse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u132	I'll interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador, and give you time to complete your interpellation. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to transfer other debates outside the O.R. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u133	Thank you very much, too. The question, Minister, is: How else does the Ministry of the Interior plan its involvement with its forces of police, firefighters, crisis planning to address the situation of Vrbětice?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u134	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister of the Interior is prepared to answer what was the procedure of the Ministry of the Interior in the matter of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbetice. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of Vrbětice has provoked a major debate and debate over the way in which ammunition is used and traded throughout the Czech Republic. There are currently about seven state controls in other warehouses. I fear that even after finding, for example, in Pardubick and elsewhere, there will be a need for a systemic and deep solution. Mr President, we will be there as long as we have to. I was on the premises again visiting. We found that the access route, which is currently the only one put into operation, leads around the premises of Bochemie and exports of materials from individual warehouses, is complicated by the need for soldiers to remove material from their own warehouses, together with firefighters and police, to import it to the so-called translation site, and it was only there that the owners eventually took it and took it to the customer and, if necessary, to rework it or to store it in May. We have waited quite a while for the Ministry of Defence and its files to conclude leases with the companies concerned. Given that it failed, we were forced to bring a motion for a resolution to the government, which allows the commander of the intervention to remove the material so-called forced, removed in the first stage at the cost of the state, this is currently happening and is weighed rocket fuel into May. Missile fuel will be taken away. It is a de facto input raw material for the production of Bochemie. We've dealt with this company. The negotiations were very correct and I assume that the lease agreement will be concluded with this company. As soon as climate conditions allow, how to decontaminate individual environments to individual warehouses, the intervention commander will order the companies concerned, which are there according to what I remember correctly, four plus the Military Technical Institute, they will be dealt with in terms of: we want to take it away, you have so many days to do so, the option is to drive it to the customer, take it to your own storage space, if you do not have your own storage space, you can use květný, you can use it in a rental relationship, if you do not use it in a rental relationship, we will take it there at the cost of the state and we will enforce these costs after you. These are three variants that companies currently have. A specific example is the company Bochemie, which would currently like to resume production. It has several problems that are currently solved by the commander of the intervention. Within the period between 13 and 15 March, Bochemie will be notified whether production can be restored and, if so, to what extent. With Bochemie, I am aware that this company has invested significant funds, including the use of the subsidy. She guarantees the sustainability of the project. There could be a failure of the State. This means that we are very cautious, on the other hand, the priority is also the safety of the population, the safety of employees and, above all, the safety of municipalities in the area. Here we will approach this primarily from the point of view of safety. As far as military deployment is concerned. I am firmly convinced that the military's commitment is absolutely necessary. I am absolutely convinced that by keeping a closer eye on the premises after the second explosion, or by saying that it prevents anyone from entering the premises from entering the premises from the outside, whether for the sake of mere curiosity or possibly for the purpose of committing some kind of criminal activity. That means the army will be deployed together with the firemen and the police as long as necessary. I fear that the time when we are able to take the last truck out of Vrbětice is the time that is near one year. We have ambition to speed it up. In any case, we are not in a state today that a truck with a semi-trailer could drive into the compound. He's not able to turn around, and that's what's dimensioning and stopping the landing. As soon as it is possible to decontaminate the fence, which was in the past around the entire area, it will be partly repaired, so in the parts where the fence will be repaired, physical security will be replaced by electronic security. At that point, it will mean that the army will be able to gradually reduce the number of members guarding this area. At the end of the day, we're working on getting the material out of the way. Firms received an offer from the state to May. May is usable even if there are other warehouses where it is necessary to manipulate ammunition in this way, that means offering companies adequate storage of their property before they solve their problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u136	Mr. Secretary, I'm warning you on time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u137	So, at the end of the day, my colleague, through Mr President, I see this at a time limit of about one year and we are working on making it shorter. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u138	Thank you. Mr Klučka is interested in an additional question and the Minister will have two minutes to complete it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u139	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Whoever looked into that list of interpellings knows that I had those Vrbětice divided into four parts - the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Finance. Looks like those other two are gonna be hard to figure out. But I'll ask. The funds approved by the government regarding the activities, operations related to the liquidation of the event, were those funds determined with a view to this one year? Or if there's any situation that will prolong this matter, will it still cost money to participate in it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u140	Yes, thank you. The Minister has two minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u141	Mr President, this report is not good. The money we have now released from the government is for the first half of this year and is only in the sense of the needs of the Ministry of the Interior. And, of course, the Ministry of Defence will also bear its costs, which it will then have to quantify. We met Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Babiš again on the spot with the scale of the disaster, and I fear that we will need additional funding for the 50 million we spend there in the first half of the year. And then there's the question of what to do with them. If we want to use this facility, we have to decontaminated it across the board, and then the cost can be estimated in the order of others, I'm almost afraid to say it, but hundreds of millions. This means that if the area is to be decontaminated in order to be able to perform a public function or to be able to sell it, the state will have to put additional funds there in the future. So 47 million - the first half of this year, then billing and asking for more money. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u142	I thank Minister Milan Chovanc for his follow-up response. We will continue by interpelling Mr. Josef Zahradníček to Minister Jan Mládek, who is duly excused, so he will only be your first part. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u143	Have a good afternoon, Mr President, Mr absent minister, colleagues. My short interpelation today is about the future of nuclear power plants in the Czech Republic. It is widely known that the very common, tilted issue of public and professional circles is the construction of other nuclear blocks in our two nuclear power plants, that is in Dukovany and Temelín. Dear Minister, it is said that there is a plan in your resort and in your vault to build more nuclear blocks in the Czech Republic. If that is true, please publish this plan. If this is not the case, please at least give your opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u144	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time for a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u145	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u146	I'm a tolerance myself, but please respect this, possibly serious interpellation, confiscate the paper and do it in writing. We will continue by intersecting Mr Antonín Sed to the Minister of Defence. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u147	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, police arrests at the Ministry of Defence and at Excalibur Army regarding the disadvantageous sale of unnecessary assets or sales of VOP Štemberk again points to problems in this resort. What is interesting about this case is the fact that there is even talk of organized criminal activity, when unnecessary and discarded assets were further sold through a state enterprise. The accused Brigadier General Vladislav Halenka was relieved of his duties as commander of military logistics, but at the same time claims that he is innocent and that the police jumped on the better in the fight among the armory. In my opinion, the problem is the whole system set up in the Ministry of Defence, where it is not required and where there is virtually undetectable personal responsibility. I want to ask you, Minister, whether and how the Military Police reacted in this case, how the Military Intelligence responded and also the Ministry of Defence Inspection. Also, whether there is a certainty that the sale of unnecessary assets, which, as it turns out, is very much needed elsewhere, will not be missed in the future and whether the so-called stock optimization and stock management bring further problems. I just want to remind you that over 12 thousand items totaled in the total amount of one billion crowns. The sale received CZK 280 million. Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you about the specific measures taken in your defence department resulting from this case. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u148	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time on the question of interpellation. And please Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický to answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this coalition interpellation in a situation where the investigation is under way, and in a situation where it is difficult enough to comment on what has been happening, and certainly not what may be happening. I guess everyone will understand that we have to maintain strict restraint in the comments. So I have to be a little more general. With the media, and then, unfortunately, it's reflected in those personal expressions as if there's no clear dividing line. We see headlines that the Ministry can't manage, that the Ministry has chaos in one or the other. And then, if someone goes through this, they find out they're talking about 2010, 2011, 2012 and so on. So it would be quite fair to separate this. I'm not saying that we've been able to set all the systems up brilliantly over that year at the Ministry, great that everything's on the line, but of course we're dealing with it. And at the beginning of this whole thing, there was just a performance, or, let's say, the military police and, of course, the relevant intelligence. I really can't comment on that anymore. We knew about the whole thing. We've known about her since the first weeks of my personal engagement at the Ministry of Defence, and it has had a lot of unpleasant consequences for us because we couldn't do anything to prevent some things, and at the same time we were worried that some people might, let's say, commit acts that could be described as criminal. I find the fact that General Halenka is now giving an interview extremely tacky. I am not going to give any interviews on this issue, because, as I said at the outset, this is an investigation, and therefore I cannot say exactly what the consequences will be, Mr President, even now. But I can assure you that we are taking every step of the way in all other cases where we can act to prevent such things from happening. But we cannot correct the various deliberate or unintended mistakes of the 1990s, when the bulk of the sale of unnecessary military property to start a business with it. This does not really fall under the competence of this Ministry's leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u150	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking if there's an interest in an additional question. Yes. Mr Seďa will ask a supplementary question to the Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u151	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I have to admit, I'm a little dizzy about this. You're the Secretary of Defense, and you're responsible for the resort. I didn't blame you. I asked what was going on in there. What's going on at the resort? And I understand that it's going about past the government, because the stock and stock management optimization really took place between 2010 and 2014. Maybe he's still running. I am more concerned with what specific measures will be taken in the resort, whether personal, whether systemic, so as to ensure transparent treatment of public funds. Nothing more, nothing less. But I understand that if there's an investigation, there's some details you can't tell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u152	Thank you for keeping time to the question. The Minister has two minutes to complete. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u153	Thank you. Just lightning, then. Of course, there were relatively fundamental personnel changes, which were then, of course, interpreted as different cleansing and witch hunts. These were precisely the changes that were meant to shut down the dubious people from the possibility of influencing the process, such as selling out unnecessary property, including stopping some sales that were not completely transparent, even though it was disadvantageous for the Ministry in the first stage. [[17.10 hours]] The next steps are that they are set far more precisely at the various stages of the whole process of competence and the specific personal responsibility of those people. There is more control, and after we have entered an internal personnel audit, we set up decision-making processes, I apologize for the word, I can't think of another now, so that they are far more transparent, so that they are concrete, as I have already said, people responsible and traceable in the event of failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u154	I thank the Minister for his reply and we will continue with the 13th interpellation. Member Zdeněk Ondráček to the absent apologized Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u155	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, the topic of monitoring the field hamster is so crucial that without the presence of the Minister, I will give up this subject and wait until it is present. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u156	Too bad we won't know anything in a written answer about the 5.5 miles. Crowns. I'm sorry. Then we will continue by interpelling Mrs Aulická Jírovcová to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u157	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, I am interrogating you on the financing of social services that has gone to the edge since 1 January 2015. Unfortunately, we have to say that despite the considerable assurances made by the MPSV, the subsidies granted to individual regions were actually humiliated. I will speak specifically on the example of the Ústí Region. The subsidy received from the MPSV was significantly reduced than originally calculated. In calculating the requirements, the region was based on the allocation of the previous year 2014 from the approved methodology. This humiliation was marked by, for example, the funding for the increase in labour costs for 2015. Only less than 73 miles were received. CZK, but in order to correspond to the allocation of November and December 2014, according to which the allocation was calculated by an increase, the region should receive 167 million. Crowns. In 2015, other social service providers, who returned from individual programmes and were funded by other sources by 2014, were also added to the region, which is less than 181 miles in the Ústí Region. Crowns. The consequence is, therefore, that the regions of the promised increase in the state budget have not felt at all, on the contrary, paying more funding from their resources at the expense of other areas that the region also manages. I ask you, Madam Secretary, whether you are dealing with this situation and discussing the current situation with the regions and the missing funds that were originally promised according to the valid methodology and are also supported, you will admit to the regions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u158	Thank you, and now Minister Michaela Marksová in her response to this interpelation. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u159	vážený President, Members, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been drawing attention to this situation since March last year in the requests for adjustment of the budgetary perspective and subsequently in the preparation of the State budget for 2015. First of all, we were talking about the expected outage of funds from individual regional projects for social prevention services. This blackout is almost one billion crowns nationwide. And that's where we ran into a meeting with the Treasury Department in the state budget, where we didn't finally fight it here. Otherwise, as regards the overall allocation, it is higher for 2015 than it was for 2014, but, of course, after the allocation of 750 million. In fact, the regions have a lower amount to support social services than in the previous year to increase wages and salaries. I also have to say that during the preparation of the state budget there was already a meeting of the Association of Regions with the Ministry of Finance. At first we were told that it would be okay, that the Ministry of Finance had promised the association that it would deliver funds there, but then it wasn't. And now I know, as I am informed, about the initiative of the Association of Regions, which again wants to submit to the Ministry of Finance a request for an increase in social service subsidies for this year. I will, of course, support this initiative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u160	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking if there's an interest in an additional question. This is not the case, the interview ends and we continue by interpelling Mr Daniel Korte to Minister Daniel Herman on the matter of reconstruction of the State Opera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, in 2013, the Ministry of Culture allocated 360 miles to the National Theatre. for reconstruction of the historical and operational building of the State Opera. It's 150 miles. more than originally planned. In 2014, the Ministry of Culture, under your leadership, raised funds for this event by an additional 355 million, i.e. to a total of 715 million. Crowns. For the record, I'm not questioning the need to reconstruct State Opera buildings. The last reconstruction took place at the turn of the 1960's and 1970's, in a way that was valid. I can only pause above that amount, i.e. by increasing the funds for the total reconstruction by half a billion, but let's save that for another time. I'm worried about something else. A few weeks ago, you got a six-mile approval from the government. 25,000. CZK - quote - "Reconstruction of the historical and operational building of the State Opera - processing of project documentation - additional work" in the negotiated procedure without publication. The contract will therefore be awarded to the former processor. I leave aside an additional concept that seems a little comical, given that the reconstruction will begin in a year and a half. The alarming fact is that while the TOP 09 and ODS governments in 2012 were awarded contracts for zero crowns, for your management in 2014, it is 100 million. Zero versus a hundred. I therefore ask why the standard tender was not carried out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u162	Thank you. Minister Daniel Herman is certainly prepared to answer briefly and appropriately. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, colleagues, on the basis of a personal examination of the premises of the State Opera buildings, I can say that this is a very unsatisfactory condition and that the vast majority of the facilities are already in use, which completely degrades the importance of this cultural monument. As the Member rightly said, the last reconstruction was due to the time of its execution. The final substantive update of the National Cultural Treasure Management Programme took place in 2012, when the Government Resolution of 19 July 2012 was No. 549 approved the extension of the programme for reconstruction of the State Opera. The implementation of the programme is approved by 2018. In 2012, as the Member said, the former head of the Ministry of Culture then decided, under the leadership of the TOP 09, to allocate a grant from the state budget of 360 million. The crown for this event. However, the amount of the subsidy granted did not correspond to the real state and thus to the requirements for the overall reconstruction. The previous management of the Ministry of Culture failed to deal with securing funds for the general reconstruction of the buildings concerned. The Ministry's new management, after familiarising with the documentation and state of the buildings, took steps to secure funds and initiated a number of negotiations that promoted the extension of the reconstruction, with the related increase of the subsidy from the original 360 million. another 355, as has already been said here, so that a general reconstruction of the buildings of the historical and operational building of the State Opera could be carried out and the next stage of the reconstruction did not have to be dealt with repeatedly. [[17.20 hours]] After a detailed analysis, the Ministry of Finance agreed to this increase in funds. The general reconstruction of the operational building and the historical building is therefore allocated from the National Cultural Treasure Care Programme for a total of 715 million. Crowns. At present, the project for building permits, including the comments of the public authorities concerned, is being finalised. The project will be submitted to the construction department in May 2015 with a request for a building permit. During the month of October 2015, a public contract will be issued for the general contractor of the construction. The expected selection of the contractor should be completed in the first quarter of 2016. On the basis of this predicted timetable, I assume that the selected contractor could start work on the general reconstruction in July 2016 with a prerequisite for their completion by September 2018. The object of the reconstruction of the historical and operational buildings will be mainly restoration work, e.g. stucco decoration and its gilding, restoration of ceiling frescoes, exchange of auditorium seats and other details, construction work, e.g. reconstruction of air-technical distributions, spatial acoustics, choir and ballet halls and modernization of theatre technology, i.e. equipment of theatrical turntable, scenic lighting and sound technology. The aim of the founder is to get this top European and world opera scene on top not only in artistic terms, but also in terms of technical functionality and amenities. The measures under general reconstruction are absolutely essential for the continued operation of this operatic scene and its competitiveness in comparison to and beyond similar scenes in Europe. After completion of the general reconstruction, the operation of these buildings will be provided at a top level in a more pleasant environment from the point of view of the internal climate and the hygiene of the environment for visitors and performers. At the same time there will be a significant modernization of technology and it will be possible to expand the repertoire of the State Opera. Following the launch of fully functional and satisfactory facilities, the offer of the State Opera for theatre and other applications can be extended. The reconstruction of the facade and roof cover of the operating building will also save considerable energy. The benefit of the general reconstruction will be the restoration of obsolete and inconvenient spaces, improvement of sound and image conditions highlighting the excellent acoustic environment of the main hall as well as related spaces. Another benefit will be the reality -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u164	Minister, I'm afraid you've run out of time. I would also like to hear it to the end, but I cannot violate the Rules of Procedure. We will try to use the two minutes left for you to answer following the supplementary question of Mr Korte. [[The Minister thanks you.]] I would like to ask Mr Korte a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u165	Thank you, Mr President. I must admit that I am deeply unsatisfied with the answer, as the Minister did not answer my question, why the standard selection procedure for the design documentation of additional construction works was not used. It simply affects me that it is an additional small house for a friendly company to fill the party cash register. So, Minister, you didn't answer my question. And I'm asking the second question - why weren't these funds - six miles. 25,000. - used from that gigantic sum of 715 million, which is earmarked for total reconstruction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u166	The additional question has been raised, the time has not been exceeded. The Minister has two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u167	Yes, thank you. I see that the Member speaks from his own experience, because what I found in the Ministry of Culture corresponds exactly to what the Member has just said. So in this spirit we really do not continue. As I said, it is funding from the total allocation to the national cultural treasure and it is additional work, not a new contract. That would probably be to answer the question of the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u168	I thank the Minister for his reply. Interpelation is over. We continue by intersecting Mrs Miroslava Strnadlová to the absent but excused Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u169	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister of Transport is not present and I don't like talking to empty chairs, I'm going to save my intervention for another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u170	That's too bad, we won't know anything about fees, not even a question. We will continue by interpelling Mrs Věra Kovářová to the absent pardoned Minister Jan Mládek on the matter of misconduct in the preparation of the programme period 2014 to 2020. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u171	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, you must remember last year's debates on whether LAGs, local action groups, which should be able to distribute funds among certain groups of beneficiaries, especially small entrepreneurs, should also be involved in the implementation structure of the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. This request came across with you. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has long expressed an opinion that micro-businesses should also apply through CzechInvest, and the use of MASs, although decentralized decision making in this case simply makes sense, you have strongly rejected. Therefore, information came from the European Commission as a blow from the clear sky, according to which CzechInvest cannot in any way be an intermediary entity with regard to the obligations contained in the Partnership Agreement. Minister, I have to ask how this is possible. Did the Ministry of Industry and Trade lead opposition but also coalition MPs on purpose? Or is this a huge mistake caused by somebody's negligence? In any case, I believe that someone should be responsible for this faux passport from your office. Dear Minister, I ask who it will be. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u172	Thank you, ma'am. You must receive a written answer under the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. We continue to interpel Mr Ludvík Hovorka also to the absent minister Jan Mládek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u173	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, citizens of Uherský Ostroh, Moravian Písek and Veselí nad Moravou are concerned about František Jampílek's requests from the Tošeň spa for permission to mine and modify gravel sand in Uherský Ostroh II. The intention is to determine the mining area and mining activity consisting in the acquisition of an exclusive deposit of unreserved minerals, namely gravel sand, Moravian Sand, Uherský Ostroh. For the conquest, an area of more than 50 hectares is to be set up and the sandbox is to be connected by means of special purpose communication directly on the road I/54 in the area between Moravian Písek and Veselí nad Moravou with the scope of annual extraction of 200,000 tonnes per year. The mining activity until the recovery of 24 hectares is expected to take place for 16 years. This information is commonly available on the community website and is evident from a positive assessment of the environmental impacts of this project by the EIA. However, the citizens of the cities and municipalities concerned point to the current burden from the already ongoing extraction of gravel sand in Ostrovský Nové Ves and the experience of recent floods, when the mining activity had a significant impact on the flood damage. At the same time they also point to the large area of the large accumulation of groundwater, which is an important source of drinking water for the Slovácké waterworks and the sewerage of Uherské Hradiště and the Waterworks and the Hodonín sewerage. They are thus concerned about the possible pollution of the reservoirs of lower waters with unseen damage that could not be replaced. Therefore, I ask you not to allow and increase the burden on the population, environment and roads in Slovácko by further extraction of gravel sand according to this intention. Thank you for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u174	Thank you. The answer is due to be delivered within 30 days by the Minister under the Rules of Procedure. That's it. That's it. That's it. Mrs Anna Putnová has withdrawn her application for oral interviews with Minister Chládek, and therefore we will continue with the interview of Mr Radim Holeček to Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, who is excused. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u175	Dear absent Minister, I would like to interpel you on compliance with the standards for maximum noise in connection with the operation of rail transport. This interpellation leads me to the particular initiative that I received as a Member elected for the Ústí Region from citizens living in the Litoměřice-suburban area. In response to a mass complaint for noise harassment in connection with the operation of rail transport, which citizens living in the locality mentioned at the local hygiene station, this last year carried out appropriate measurements, the official result of which is, according to my information, the conclusion that the maximum level of noise permitted by law is exceeded by 8.8 decibel. As far as I know, in such a case, the noise generator is legally obliged to take action and ensure appropriate noise control measures. However, information about no such activities on SŽDC's side is not available at the moment. My questions. How are the situations currently addressed within the transport department, where there is a proven harassment of the inhabitants of the localities concerned by excessive noise in connection with the operation of rail transport? Is this problem solved comprehensively? Second question: Is modernisation planned on the railway line, which is the subject of the specific citizens' initiative? If so, will this modernization include anti-noise measures? Lysá nad Labem railway line - Ústí nad Labem-západ, in the timetable for passengers marked with number 072. And the third question: There is a guarantee at this time, virtually. Can you, Minister, guarantee me that projects which do not address the existing problem of excessive noise are not and will not be approved and implemented in areas where rail traffic noise exceeds the legal limits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u176	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The answer should be delivered to you within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. It is now Mr. Jiří Zlatuška's interpellation to the Minister of Education, Marcel Chládek, on the financing of unsuccessful projects. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u177	Mr President, Minister, the Ministry of Education is giving CZK 1.4 billion, i.e. an amount comparable to the alleged breakdown of the college budget, for the construction of the CIIRC building, so-called. Czech Institute of Informatics, Cybernetics and Robotics, Czech Technical University. After its foundation in 2013, the Institute had the task of preparing - I quote: a quality project under the operational programme VaVpI. The ČVUT project under the so-called "CTU project" He submitted the Prague calls, even to eliminate competition, to prevent his electrofaculty from presenting her project for the reconstruction of the faculty for CZK 200 million. However, it was not successful, it ended up as a footnote, on the 18th place of 19 considered. It was the third version. It has already been prepared for the Government of Topolánkův and for Nečasův. profesor Haňka's scientific advisor made it clear that he is of a commercial nature, essentially supplies to foreign companies, and as such is not to be financed by public funds, but as investments by companies. Public money is harmful to the unsuccessful, including Prague. Moreover, with the conditions of implementation softer than for other schools fulfilling mandatory indicators, sustainability and public support bans. Who, by name, is responsible for the public financing of a failed project and possibly wasting public funds? What are the mandatory indicators, how is the strictness of their performance comparable to operational programmes ensured, and what will prevent simultaneous reporting even for VaVpI projects? How will at least part of the appropriations put back into the State budget, in particular from the activities of the type of supply of contract research, and how are the conditions set for the activities falling under the provision of public aid and what binding indicators and their implementation are made public? [[Attention to compliance with time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u178	Thank you. Minister Chládek is ready. Minister, you have five minutes to answer the questions. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't even take five minutes. It is not true that this project has been assessed as unsuccessful, this project has been assessed as successful. At last year's meeting at the Ministry of Finance during the negotiations on the Prague Call, we agreed that the amount was so high that funds were not earmarked for this in the Prague Challenge, so we decided that it would be earmarked directly after agreement with the Ministry of Finance from the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u180	Thank you. The Member has one minute to answer his questions. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u181	I have the order of projects here, the list of projects recommended for funding, challenge 3.4. The CIIRC project is clearly in 18th place. Recommended only to include the magazine, there is no such thing. Recommended for approval, it has the 17 projects over it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u182	Yes, if the Minister wants to complete his answer. Yes. This time you have two minutes, you can exhaust them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u183	Thank you, it wasn't exhausted anyway. I have to confirm my previous answer again. With the participation of me and Minister Babiš and the Rectors, it was agreed as I told you and answered in the previous reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u184	Thank you. This interpelation ends and continues with the interpellation of Mr Zdeněk Soukup to Minister Michaela Marksová on social services subsidies in 2016. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u185	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I thought I'd talk to an empty chair, but the secretary always comes at the right time. We recently approved an amendment to the Social Services Act, which we transferred from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the region. But there's no way the Ministry looks out of the game. Each year, the subsidy procedure should issue a methodology for the regions. In this context, several social care providers from Karlovy Vary concerned about the delay in issuing the methodology for grant proceedings for 2016. It would appear that there is still time at the beginning of 2015, but grant management is a long-term process and providers have poor experience with delaying its individual steps. For example, in 2013, when they didn't get the money or got it late. This has seriously put some services at risk. I have questions for the Minister. There are three of them. So what would be the methodology for the regions, what would be its form? Will the methodology be sent to comment on when the final form will be published? That's the first question. You don't have to write it down, I'll hand it over on paper. Second: When will the grant procedure for 2016 be announced for the regions, at what date will the regions submit applications for the 2016 subsidy? What will be the form of grant applications, including annexes? Furthermore, when will the application for applications by social service providers be opened for funding for 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u186	I thank the honourable Member and the Minister, I am sure she will be happy to answer the questions. It has a written background, it can certainly correspond in order. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u187	Mr President, Members, because I have unfortunately received these very precise questions only now, not in advance, I do not know the exact dates, but I will answer that in writing if necessary. But no organizations have any cause for concern, because I expect the methodology to be issued so that it is timely for everyone. Yes, we are counting on the fact that it will, of course, be sent to the regions and their organisations for comments, because we certainly do not want to do anything at the Ministry without those involved. When the grant procedure for 2016 for the regions will be announced, there I expect the same data as this year, which means that it always takes place after the approval of the state budget, because we need to know how much funding is there, when the application for social service providers' applications for funds will be opened exactly. This applies to individual regions, but there is, of course, an interest to make it as soon as possible. Once they decide how much money it's going to be, how much each county gets, they're going to do it. These things always take place in the autumn, so it will certainly be like this. And the last question is whether it will be possible from the regions to influence the form of the provider's application... That's the technical data I'm reading you here, something about an Excel chart. I can't answer that right now, I'm sorry, but I'll answer that in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u188	Thank you, Minister. The Member has one minute to ask the additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u189	I didn't ask that last question. Anyway, I'll ask. Basically, in the methodology, and I'm very interested in that, you know, from the social policy committee's negotiations, this method will have some kind of... will there be any binding instruction to all regions to process this grant procedure under the public aid scheme?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u191	As far as the public aid scheme is concerned, yes, it will actually be used there for 2016 at last, so this is how briefly the answer is. Otherwise, the details of what it means, here I also have at my disposal and I do not want to read them all, but nevertheless, yes, for the first time in 2016, this regime will be used.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u192	Thank you, Minister. That's it. That's it. That's it. Mr Simeon Karamazov withdrew his interview to the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, but we will have an interview number 24 of Mr Zdeněk Syblík on Mr Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on electronic sales records. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know we've talked about this more than once today. I must say, Minister, I trusted you. But normally you're confusing me with tonight's performance, that I have to ask that question. You said here several times today that it concerns only restaurants and retail. The draft law states that from 1 January this applies to restaurant, catering and accommodation services, from 1 April to retail and wholesale and from 1 July to other activities and services. So, really, everyone. I thought I was clear on that, and I found out today that I wasn't clear on that. I would also like to say that according to your words, Minister, there will be a delay and you will not see the deadline for the introduction of electronic sales records until 2017. Well, is that even going to happen in 2017? Write and implement a selection procedure on hardware, provide software, seamlessly ongoing process in the House and Senate, trouble-free testing, pilot testing and sufficient time for entrepreneurs to acquire the right and certified equipment, etc., etc. After the conference on electronic records of sales held on 3 March tento rok Chairman of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers said - quote: The reason report on the law is wrong and unspecific. Defenders of the law didn't know how to ensure data security. They didn't know how much it would cost to operate and maintain. Croatia, according to which everything is being prepared, has ten times the number of registered taxpayers and the volume of data. If this is a demonstration of how ministerial servants work in the preparation of the law, then the state of our system is more than tragic. End of quote. You said here that everyone agrees. All associations and all interest associations. In doing so, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers, their chairman expressed himself in this way. It has, please nicely, posted on its website, the association. I didn't make that up. [[Your time is up.]] So I'm asking: isn't this underestimating the preparation of this law? And will he ever be put to life in this government's term of office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u194	I'm tolerating myself today. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u195	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I don't know, it's a shame you didn't say the name of the head of the association or what association. [[Member Syblik: Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers.]] I don't know, the association that it is. We are dealing with the largest, small and medium-sized enterprise association and tradesmen, Mr Havlíček, the second largest association, tradesmen, Mr Danda, who was with me this morning, is the oldest of all, and the Chamber of Commerce. So I'd say it again. The first stages are restaurant and catering services, so called. HORECA. The second stage is retail and wholesale. If we can do this, it'll be a heroic performance. And don't ask me if it's going to work or not. Today, the ODS had a press conference where she declared a holy war against this project that she was going to build everything. I don't know, it's not my decision to make. Just the information you're talking about, I think there's some older data, and you also have to take it with a spare of what's written in the press. We're organizing x seminars for this. Well, I don't know, maybe I'll do a seminar here for the MPs, probably in the media there are more different negative articles than the Ministry just explain it. But that's all we're planning. So restaurant, catering, retail - wholesale. And I don't know the association. Of course, from the point of view of functionality - the implementation of the whole project, so the state works how it works. We have a law on public procurement, we have laws that restrict us. There's been such a question today - the system that you're actually announcing a contract, and then over and over again. So, in terms of the speed of our state and our bureaucracy, we're going to do it on January 1, 2016. But if it doesn't work out, it'll be a few months or weeks later. Unless, of course, the House approves, I don't know. I think it's a good project, it supports most market participants. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u196	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking if there's an interest in an additional question. It's not like that. A colleague of mine, Syblík, is satisfied with the answer. So we've got a record, 25th interpellation. Mrs Jana Hnyková will intersect Minister Michaela Marksová on the budget for social services subsidies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u197	Good evening. Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I wanted to ask you about subsidies to social services for this year. The social services in this area should have been increased by 750 million, intended to increase the salaries of workers in social services. During a visit to the Social Department of the Liberec Region and from some articles in the newspaper, I find that the regions to which the subsidies have passed did not receive these funds, and they complain that they received less money than last year. For example, in the aforementioned Liberec Region, it makes 700 thousand crowns less, and it does not just concern the Liberec Region. As we have heard here, it is nice that you will support the initiative of the Association of Regions, but it does not solve the situation. You're sitting with the Minister of Finance in a government, so you should make a deal. Your ministry has launched a financial transfer to the edge, and now social services remain uncertain again. I find that irresponsible. And to the Minister of Finance, through Mr President, I am calling on him to think about this and to start working with you, Madam Secretary. [[17.50 hours]] I must remind you that this affects the elderly and the disabled, and they deserve to be properly cared for and helped by the regions. I have heard the answer, yet I had to draw attention to this situation in time so that social services would not remain without finance at the end of the year. I have heard the answer, so thank you for hearing my request, and I would very much like you and the Minister of Finance to deal with this situation urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u198	Thank you. I'm asking the secretary - he's got five minutes to answer. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u199	Mr President, Members, the answer will actually be the same as in the case of interpelation number 14. Yes, it is true, it is about the agreement of our Ministry and the Ministry of Finance, and as I said in the debate on the state budget last year, we pointed out that the 750 million for salaries and wages is not actually an increase, that it is only within the amount we have committed to putting in social services under the government declaration. So, as you say, we're gonna have to communicate more and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u200	Thank you. So we're gonna break the record. Since it's not 17.55, I'll start the interpellation. If Mrs Hnyková does not have an additional question? No, I got it right. Mrs Pavlína Nytrová has an interview with Minister Andrej Babiš. She's not here, so she's failing her order. Mrs Jana Fischerová - she is here - to the Minister of Finance on electronic sales records. 27! Record number today. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u201	Thank you for the floor. I think we're gonna do a dot behind today's interpelations and get back to our favorite subject, Minister Babiš. [[I look forward to it.]] I'm excited too. Since many have fallen on this matter, it will be difficult for me to repeat something. While I am going to repeat something that I want to step up, what is on my mind - and I have also been doing business, I am still communicating with entrepreneurs, not only with so-called. self-employed persons, but also those who own restaurants. I look forward to coming to Průhonice to see Minister Babiš's new restaurant, because it's nice, I go there, so I look forward to it. And now I want to ask specifically: As the e-booking bill is planned, I think this is really an unnecessary step. I see bigger problems more about working black, where we miss more money and the work here is expensive. All the taxes related to this, the payoff from work, that's more like the main problem. But by the fact that this law, which I unfortunately do not have - the previous speaker quoted exactly what is in the law, I am not from the coalition, I am from the opposition, it did not get to me, I am just really looking for everything from the press - so I want to ask. By proposing this, and it is also promised that VAT for restaurants will be reduced to 15%, Minister, so I agree, because I know that there are two different rates. When food is brought out, it's 15 percent that is consumed in a restaurant 21 percent. It's a good thing when it's synchronized. But I want to ask if the law that's probably going to continue to work, if it's going to be at the same time as the 15% VAT exemption, or if it's your wishful thinking. If you have more ministers for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u202	The Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has a full five minutes, then there may be an additional question and an additional answer. It'll work out for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the donation. I'm reporting a conflict of interest. Yes, Sokolovna Průhonice, the first paycheck, and waiters and chefs came and said, "Where's the paycheck?" We said we sent it to the bank. They weren't used to it. It was cash. So we're paying social, health. You're right, cutting sales is reducing social and health benefits for employees, which is why they pay in cash. So the effect is clear. And, of course, I would also like to propose a reduction from 19 to 15 per cent in this law. That'll be part of it. And if it goes away? The Prime Minister has some reservations, where she said she probably did, so it will be the subject of debate, and I strongly hope to convince them, because when we have a calculated leak in restaurant services of between 10 and 11 billion. and we're going to take 1.6, we're going to lower-- and I've already said it-- about the 6 percent, it's 400 million, so it's clear that we're going to pick more. I want to put it together so it's in one law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u204	Thank you and I ask if there is an interest in the supplementary question. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u205	Minister, thank you so much for your answer. It's a good thing it goes hand in hand. Some people have already asked me that. Just a little point. It's not the VAT anymore 19, it's already 21. But thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u206	Well, if there's anything else the Minister wants to answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u207	I'm sorry, 21. I'm already dealing with the super gross wage, so I've got other plans in my head. I'm sure you're right. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-006-125.u208	Thank you. Because it's over 17.55, we're not going to continue. This was the 27th and the last interpellation. Have a good evening. I am aware of Mr Chalupa's factual remark, but I cannot give him the floor because there are oral interpelations where something like this is not allowed under the Rules of Procedure, so that is a simple matter. In addition to the wishes of a nice evening and a nice weekend, I look forward to continuing this meeting at 14 p.m. on 31 March this year. I wish the members of the committees a successful job so that we can continue in the second week of the meeting especially in the third readings of the laws that await this House. Goodbye.
