ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-023-140.u1	140. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in relation to Aruba on the exchange of information in tax matters signed in The Hague on 29 June 2015 /German press 594/ - first reading The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-023-140.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to justify the Government's proposal to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic to agree to ratify the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in relation to Aruba on the exchange of information on tax matters. On 29 June 2015, Ms. Jana Reinišová, an extraordinary Ambassador of the Czech Republic in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, including the island of Aruba, the island of Curacao and the island of Saint Martin, and Mr. Alfonso Boekhoudt, signed it for the Czech Republic. Since 2010, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the General Financial Directorate, has negotiated agreements on the exchange of information for tax purposes with jurisdictions with a preferential tax regime. For the time being, these negotiations have resulted in 14 concrete draft texts which are subsequently undergoing a legislative process leading to ratification by the President. Nine agreements have already entered into force, which are announced in the Collection of International Treaties. The agreement was negotiated on the basis of a model draft directive for expert negotiations on agreements on the exchange of information on tax matters and a draft agreement on the exchange of information on tax matters approved by Government Resolution No. 227 of 22 March 2010. The proposed agreement fully complies with OECD standards for the international exchange of tax information. The subject matter of the agreement is taxes agreed upon by the Contracting Parties in expert negotiations, which in the Czech Republic is taxes of all kinds and names and in Aruba taxes of all kinds and names including excise duties. Information provided under this Agreement shall be subject to an obligation of confidentiality. By concluding the agreement, the Czech Republic will be able to request the competent authority of the Contracting State for information that is relevant to the finding, determination and security of payment of taxes, or to investigate or prosecute tax offences. However, given the legal constraints imposed by the domestic law, the information provided may be used in criminal proceedings only as operational information. The Contracting Parties shall also undertake to provide, upon request, information held by banks or other financial institutions. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The approval of the agreement on the basis of which the international exchange of tax information with jurisdictions still considered tax havens will take place is very desirable, as a positive impact can be expected, in particular, on the tax revenues of the state budget of the Czech Republic, due to an effective reduction in tax evasion. Agreements also act as a preventive measure to strengthen the payment morale of Czech taxpayers. I therefore recommend that the Chamber of Deputies agree to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-023-140.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Rom Kostřica. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-023-140.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this government proposal, by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented to express its agreement to ratify the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in relation to Aruba on the exchange of information in tax matters signed in The Hague on 29 June 2015, the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance said a sufficient amount of information and I just want to ask you to agree that this matter be discussed in the Foreign Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-26-ps2013-036-03-023-140.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. I am therefore ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 74, 135 Members are registered, for 120, against none. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this draft treaty. The next item is
