ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended / House print 358/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán will present the bill. Before taking the floor, I would like to say that on 23 January this year at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, this press was ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. The transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure states that if it is not submitted during the examination of the draft law Before the amendment is effective, the Chamber of Deputies will determine which committee is the guarantee committee. In the present case, the draft law was directed only to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a single committee and it is therefore clear that this committee is also a guarantee committee. Therefore, we do not need to vote on the designation of the guarantee committee under the amendment to the Act on Rules of Procedure, Act No. 265/2004 Coll. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as the House Press 358/1, and I would therefore ask that Member Zdeněk Ondráček also take his place as rapporteur at the rapporteur's table. As soon as the House calms down, I will give the Minister my word. I ask those discussing topics other than the amendment to the Criminal Code to bring the debate into the foyer. Wait a minute, Minister. The road bill got them all worked up... Thank you. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u2	Thank you, Mr President. honourable Members, the proposal has already been presented at first reading, so I will be very brief. The submitted amendment pursues three basic objectives. It concerns the implementation of Directive 2013/40 of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks on information systems and the replacement of Council Framework Decision etc., the implementation of the European Directive 2008/99 and the adaptation of certain requirements. groups of states against corruption, or GRECO and certain requirements of the Committee of Experts for the evaluation of measures against money laundering and terrorist financing, so-called. Moneyval. In essence, these are relatively minor changes, which strengthen the fight against corruption and money laundering, which we are committed to by international treaties, which I believe is something that does not need to be debated in an extensive way, and for this reason I am asking the House to support the proposal at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u3	I thank the Minister for his introductory words and ask the rapporteur of the constitutional committee of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to inform us about the committee's deliberations and the committee's proposal, or to justify the amendments in accordance with Section 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, the constitutional law committee dealt with the amendment of the law, the criminal code, repeatedly. At its 27th meeting on 25 February of this year, he adopted resolution number 103, which he recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal in the submitted text. At the same time, the committee commissioned the chairman of the committee to submit the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, which has also happened, and authorised me to report at this meeting on the results of this law's deliberations at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee. I have nothing to say because none of the amendments have been adopted, but I am signing up for myself in a detailed debate on the amendments that I have put into the system. I'll explain later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening a general debate. I'm saying I don't have an application for it, but I see an application from the scene. No? Okay. I ask again in the general debate if anyone is applying. It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. In that case, there will probably be no interest in any final words in the general debate. I am opening the debate in detail and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified by at least a reference to the written document by the House. With the priority right of the rapporteur, who has entered into a detailed debate, then Mr Blažek. Don't make me break the rules of procedure. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u6	Once again, Mr President, thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, on the amendments that I have put into the system. In the report of the fourth evaluation visit of experts' committee on the evaluation of measures against money laundering and terrorist financing, there was a requirement to adjust the criminality of the preparation of such acts for criminal offences and the legalisation of the proceeds of crime. In the area of legislation and related institutional measures, evaluators have recommended the criminalisation of participation in the commission of all types of money laundering, preferably by an explicit provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure, that the preparation of such a crime is criminal. The Ministry of Justice has dealt with this requirement by inserting a new aline in the aforementioned factual elements of Sections 214 and 216, which is "who is associated with the commission of such an act'. However, I see this as a lack of a fully unspeakable requirement for evaluators. An agreement of two or more persons to commit a particular, even if not specified in detail by a particularly serious crime, whether explicit or explicit, is considered to be one of the forms of preparation. The association is similar to the mutual instructions and can therefore sometimes be considered as preparation in the form of instructions. I repeat that the conspiracy is only one form of preparation of the crime, with other forms being organisation, instruction, assistance, gathering, but also procurement or adaptation of means or instruments for committing a particularly serious crime. I believe that a more appropriate way of adjusting the committee's request would be to insert a new alinea, which would be "who creates the conditions for committing such an act" - which is essentially the content of the amendment that is deposited in the system as House Document No 2283. Ensure the literal criminality of preparation requires the inclusion of a new paragraph for each of the factual elements, in these specific cases paragraph 5 which would be: "Preparation is criminal." As is the case with other factual elements, which would affect all forms of preparation, since according to the provisions of § 20 para. 1 - preparation for a criminal offence - makes it possible to deal with preparation only for particularly serious crimes, i.e. offences where the maximum level of the criminal rate is at least 10 years. This is the content of the amendments contained in the system as House Document No 2200. Let me also remind you that this government has, in its programming declaration, an unnegotiable fight against all forms of corruption, serious economic crime, weirdness, abuse of executions and unfair insolvencys. The adaptation of the above facts and thus the introduction of the criminality of the preparation for these offences is thus entirely in line with the Government's programming declaration. I believe that it is precisely the introduction of the criminality of the preparation that may have a general effect on potential perpetrators of these offences, so that they may abandon their actions. [[12.30 hours]] I must also remind you here that the ambassadors of the United States of America, Britain, Canada, South Korea and Norway, by an open letter, called on the Czech Government to intensify the fulfilment of the anti-corruption obligations contained in the coalition treaty and under international obligations. It became the International Day against Corruption, which was 9. 12. 2014. Here the statistical figures - in 2013 the Czech Republic ended in a worldwide ranking on the unflattering 57th place and last year on the 53rd place, which I do not consider to be a flattering evaluation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so much in short to my two amendments. And before you decide how to vote on these proposals, please at least meet them and think about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u7	I thank Mr Ondráček for his amendments tabled. In a detailed debate, we continue with Mr Pavel Blažek's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Marek Benda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. I have a little concern here to say a lot so that I do not start a debate again, so I will limit myself only to saying that I am signing up for an amendment - House document No. 2288, and I hope that by being this brief, I will not reduce the seriousness of the House or myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u9	Thank you. Mr Blažek was economical in a detailed debate. Now, Mr Marek Benda, also in a detailed debate with his proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be as economical as Pavel Blažek, but I will try not to be too long. I propose that point 8 be read: in § 298a para. 1 instead of the previous text, 'not to a small extent, the words are replaced by 'though of gross negligence', in order to make the text "to a small extent, the words are supplemented by 'though of gross negligence'. I will try briefly to justify that the House be clear on what to vote on. Paragraph 298a concerns unauthorised production and other handling of ozone-inhibiting substances. The current text is: A person who, contrary to another legislation, produces, imports, transports or places on the market a substance harmful to the ozone layer may be punished to some extent. In line with our international commitments, the Ministry is proposing that this should also apply to gross negligence. I just think it's very unfortunate that we're releasing the words "though not to a small extent," because when you think about it to the end, it's really every poorly delivered spray that contains a potentially ozone-inhibiting substance. It's every use of an old refrigerator that contains a substance containing the ozone layer. So here I would just ask very much to think about whether this should continue to be there to a small extent, because it is undoubtedly meant to be a struggle against freeons and other things being imported here, so that they do not be dealt with, but not that if one has them, they will automatically be punished for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u11	I thank Mr Marek Benda. This was the last one entered into a detailed debate. I'm asking who else in the detailed debate. I don't see anyone. I am ending the debate in detail. There is no proposal that we should vote on at second reading. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Mr. Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u12	Thank you. Just a technical comment for me on the final proposal, or on Mr Benda's amendment. Although I am not denying him a certain ratio, we have discussed this with the European Commission in the context of such preliminary consultations. They told us that there's just no way that it didn't correspond to the transcription of the directive, and they'd find that we're unfulfilled, that we have a transposition deficit. So unfortunately, I can't agree with that for myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-006-002.u13	Is the rapporteur's interest in the final word? It's not like that. Because we have exhausted all the steps needed for second reading, I thank the Minister. I thank the rapporteur and end with point No. 2, second reading of the amendment to the Criminal Code. We'll continue with point No. 3, we're still at second reading.
