ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u1	29. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, repeals Act No. 266/2006 Coll., on employee accident insurance, and repealing or amending some other laws /house print 376/ - first reading Again, I ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. The aim of this proposal is, above all, to maintain the legislation on compensation for accidents at work and occupational diseases in the Labour Code, which is the principle on which tripartite agreed. This is due to the fact that we believe that compensation for damage and non-property damage is closely linked to the specificity of legal relationships based on the exercise of dependent labour, but it does not prevent this specific legislation from adapting to new trends in private law. At the same time, it is proposed in this context that the Staff Accident Insurance Act, which, as is known, has not yet become effective since its approval in 2006. So we believe that this proposal can be accepted. I repeat, the consensus on this solution is based on the conclusions of tripartite. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur, who is again Mr Jaroslav Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u4	Well, good day again. I'm gonna have a little bit of a longer comment this time, virtually. my intelligence report because I think this standard deserves it. The damage for which the employee is responsible to the employer and its compensation as damage for which the employer is responsible for the employee and its compensation including... Mr President, please, I do not want to remind them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u5	Yes. I'll ask the left side of the hall to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will continue - including the damage to the health of the employee, and its compensation has always been, but it is also currently an essential and important part of the labour relations legislation, which contained and contains the legal regulation of employment relations. This was the case under the first Labour Code, it is also the case under the second Labour Code, which was declared under number 262 in the Collection of Laws in 2006 and became effective on 1 January 2007. The legislation on compensation for damage for which the employer is responsible and the legislation on compensation for damage for which the employer is responsible, except for compensation for the health of the employee, is contained in Part 11 of the Labour Code and this legislation is based, in principle, on proven compensation for damage under the first Labour Code. Compensation for damage to the health of an employee due to an accident at work or an occupational disease shall, with legal effect from 1 January 2007, only be included in the transitional provisions of the Labour Code, in the provisions of Sections 365 to 393. The reason for such a legislative procedure was that the legislation on liability for damage to an occupational disease worker should have replaced Act No. 266/2006 Coll., on employee accident insurance. The employees' accident insurance law should have acquired legal effectiveness from 1 January 2007, but we know that it did not, and if the employees' accident insurance law had acquired legal effectiveness as envisaged, the legislation on compensation for workers' health would have been contained in the transitional Sections 365 to 393 of the Labour Code. It would be consumed and would be followed in the future under the Accident Insurance Act of employees designed not on the principle of compensation but on the principle of insurance. However, the fact is that the acquisition of legal effectiveness of the Workers' Accident Insurance Act has been postponed four times in total by the applicable laws. I underline - four times postponed. This was the last time it became a law which was declared in the Collection of Laws under number 184 in 2014, with the fact that the acquisition of legal effectiveness was provided for on 1 January 2017. I'm sure we remember that now. The undeniable fact is that the legislation on employees' accident insurance would be less advantageous for employees injured in their health than, according to the legislation on health liability under the Labour Code, for which, on the basis of objective liability, that is to say, their employer is responsible for the outcome. It is precisely the question of advantage and flat-rate access to all natural persons of employees without distinction that has come to the fore in connection with the acquisition of the legal effectiveness of the new Civil Code from 1 January 2014, which is based on the assumption that the injured party and the party responsible are to negotiate and agree on compensation, including the amount of compensation, and in the event that such an agreement does not take place, that the injured party must bring a civil action against the party responsible to the court if any compensation is to be imposed. It is also necessary to perceive the fact that the employer bears the costs of compensation for accidents at work and occupational diseases, which is already legally based on the definition of dependent labour contained in Section 2 of the Labour Code. Therefore, the Labour Code in Section 365 laid down the legislation on insurance of employer's liability for damage to accidents at work and occupational diseases. This legislation is indeed obsolete and is due to the time of its inception in 1992-1993. It establishes a monopoly of two insurance companies, namely Česká pojišťovna, a. s., and Kooperativa, a. s., which is not in accordance with European law. It is based on Section 205d of the First Labour Code and Decree of the Ministry of Finance No. 125/1993 Coll., laying down the conditions and rates of statutory insurance of employer's liability for damage to an accident at work or occupational disease. This decree was amended four times and the costs of administrative management of insurance companies in statutory insurance of employers' liability in the event of an accident at work or occupational disease were, however, changed twice also by law, most recently by law No. 182/2014, which we remember here, which took legal effect on 1 January 2015, where the administrative costs of these insurance companies decreased to 4 percent of the total amount of insurance premiums received by the employer in a given calendar year. The legislation contained in Section 365 of the Labour Code, which refers to Section 205d of the First Labour Code or the Decree of the Ministry of Finance laying down the conditions and rates of statutory insurance of the employer's liability for damage to work accidents or occupational diseases, must be replaced by a new legal regulation. It is necessary to prepare this legislation within the Government's jurisdiction without undue delay and to discuss which central administrative office it belongs to or does not belong to. The main purpose of this government bill is to transfer the employer's liability legislation - and so forth, I could continue this way. I'm not gonna burden you with what's next in the report, because there's a lot more to go on. But I would like to conclude completely that I believe that the House should release this law for second reading. I think he should get it again as a gesture committee on social policy. And here I would suggest that the economic committee should also be involved, because those things that concern accident insurance are things that they should be interested in, among other things. So my proposal is to release the second reading and to vote on the proposals to one and the other committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Opálka is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Government, colleagues, let me outline some of the issues that I would like to discuss and clarify in the Committee on Social Policy proposed by the Organising Committee to discuss this press. As a positive factor, I consider the solid incorporation of substantive regulation in a uniform part of the Labour Code and the valorisation of compensation amounts. This has been criticized for a long time, and we ended up dealing with it recently. At the same time, however, the government is also proposed to abolish the still valid but ineffective workers' accident insurance law and to repeal or amend some other related laws, since according to the Government it is now clear that under the Accident Insurance Act, employees will not be covered by the occupational accident and illness, and therefore it is not justified that Law No. 266/2006 Coll., on employees' accident insurance, as amended, continued to be valid. It has been valid since 2006, but has not been effective in the long term. I think that this law has a history of a number of amendments, especially novels in terms of delaying its effectiveness. [[14.50 hours]] The Government also takes into account that the original Staff Accident Insurance Act would not have been implemented in the same way without extensive changes. On the other hand, I must say that previous right-wing governments, although not interested in the effectiveness of this law, never had the courage to proceed directly to its abolition, as they would lose one of the arguments in relation to the European Commission that we are prepared to do something in this area. Although it is true that the accident insurance law probably will no longer take effect, as it would require large complex adjustments, but the philosophy of this law is that the insurance management will pass from two private insurance companies to the Czech Social Security Administration, which is - and I stress - ready for this step, which we have also checked on the exit of the Social Policy Committee to the central administration. This solution has always been supported by our KSČM, and should therefore be supported by its abolition only when a new bill is tabled, only if it holds the same philosophy - and I underline again, the philosophy that the Chamber of Deputies supported on 20 June last year in its accompanying resolution number 353. Despite this, the resolution of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is processing four alternative solutions for the government, and if I have good information, it is preferred to provide a solution that should be set up by a special institution following the model of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with its administrative bodies, which will be much more expensive, because as far as the Czech Social Security Administration is concerned within the framework of sickness and pension insurance, it is only about adding this system to its administration. From this point of view, the abolition of the law seems problematic to me without knowing the proposal that Parliament's government will eventually submit. So I do not have a problem with dealing with the labour code, but I have a problem with abolishing the still ineffective law. The Government's proposal is characterised as a technical amendment, but the content of the proposal goes far beyond the limits of the technical amendment, as it amends ten laws plus the Code of Justice and completely abolishes one law. Moreover, some of the applicable parts of the law are not applied and will therefore be repealed with the repeal of Act No. 266/2006 Sb., above all it is a question of prevention. Support for the repeal of the Act on Accident Insurance means re-breaking into the uncertainty of another solution, which will in addition cancel the statutory deadline for the submission of the revised Act and possibly prolong the critical situation of the European Commission, the monopoly management of the accident insurance by two private insurance companies. To put it briefly, the deadline was given by prolonging the inefficiency of the law. The government was obliged to bring a new law before this deadline. By abolishing this law, no deadline will actually be set. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u9	Thank you. I'm asking who's still applying. Mr. Vilímec, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u10	Mr President, fellow Members, the rapporteur has been very extensive. I'm not going to go into the evaluation of individual paragraphs. We know that the accident insurance law was approved in 2006. Nine years have passed since then. I made such a historic excursion because I was not yet a Member at the time, and I actually found that it was a law that had been prepared and enforced by the government of Jiří Paroubek. Originally, the efficiency was set at 1 January 2007, then it was postponed several times. The last move was already by the will of this House on January 1, 2017. The law, and also the rapporteur, was to replace it, he used the word certified, and I will also use it, the employer's objective responsibility for damage to health and insurance benefits, more or less the accident insurance system of employees. I have read at least part of the discussion then, and I must say that the only political party, the only political entity against the approval of the law, was the ODS. The law was vetoed by the Senate and basically passed the votes of the then coalition, but since the Union of Freedom, which no longer exists today, delivered only two votes, the rest of the votes were obtained by the votes of the Communist Members. This is the history of this proposal. If the new government or government, where social democracy plays a significant role, proposes the repeal of the law that Minister Škromach advocated nine years ago, it leads to such a special situation that some Members who then voted in favour of the Act on Accident Insurance will now vote on annulment. Such are the winding ways of political attitudes. I must say that the ODS is consistent in this, it was consistent, it did not want this law. It turns out that, in the same way, financial expenses, etc., I can quote the reasons given nine years ago, Mrs Páralová from ODS, who said: Firstly, the proposal brings unnecessary financial costs, secondly, increases sanctions, thirdly increases employers' obligations, etc., fifthly, from the point of view of occupational safety it contains little incentive to prevent accidents, and finally, sixthly, significantly increases administrative demands and increases the whole system. She wasn't the only one in this evaluation. In my opinion, further developments have shown that the accident insurance law was not set happily, that the time is coming when it should be abolished, and in this sense, as the ODS acted nine years ago, so it will proceed now. That means we don't have a problem, we're a consistent political party, we don't change our minds after nine years. So much more of a historical excursion, which, I think, is also appropriate, because forgetting is human and sometimes needs to be reminded. Another matter concerns the setting up of the valuation scheme, or more or less the act of authorisation. Here I would just quote, surely it will be the subject of discussion on the Committee on Social Policy, that the explanatory memorandum assumes, if there is a valuation, that it will mean more or less double, or an increase in annual expenditure by more than double, for a painful 600 to 750 million, and for a difficult social application of 700 to 800 million crowns. The reason report assumes that, given that the premiums collected amount to approximately CZK 2 billion, it should be -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u11	I'm sorry, colleague, but I'm asking the House for some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u12	I'm gonna go. The insurance policy. I think it is necessary to analyse it, analyse it on the floor of the Social Policy Committee, because it is quite large amounts. For myself, and I think that even for colleagues, I agree that this should go through the second reading, that the Committee on Social Policy should deal intensively with this, not only by repealing the Act on Accident Insurance, but also by doing the other things and, where appropriate, making the necessary adjustments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-012-029.u13	Thank you. I will ask who else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Let me ask you about the final words. Not interested. Therefore, we will consider the draft of the commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering this press to the Social Policy Committee, and the rapporteur has proposed a commandment to the Economic Committee. That means we have two suggestions for the commandment. I'll ask if anyone else has another suggestion. It's not like that. We will vote on the commandments of the Social Policy Committee. I'm gonna ring my co-workers in the lobby, and we're gonna vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is 131. Registered 146, 121, no one. This proposal was adopted. We shall vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is number 132. Registered 147, 116, versus 5. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have ordered this press to the Committee on Social Policy and the Economic Committee. That concludes the discussion of paragraph 29. Let's continue with the point.
