ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u1	47. Government Bill on the Protection of the National Borders of the Czech Republic and on the Amendment of Related Acts (Law on the Protection of National Borders) /German Press 627/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. As rapporteur for the first reading, my colleague, Janulík, took the position at the rapporteur's table. I therefore ask the Minister to take the floor when the House calms down. In the meantime, I can read the unloaded apologies from today's hearing, Mr Fiedler, Mrs Chalánková and Mrs Matušovská. Just a minute. Even your party colleagues, Minister, will ask for peace! [[He's still waiting for a while.]] Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed law is intended to replace the law currently in force on the protection of national borders, which no longer corresponds to the reality of the Czech Republic's membership of the Schengen area and of the European Union. The proposed draft law on the protection of national borders follows a directly applicable regulation of the European Union, the so-called Schengen Borders Code. The aim of the proposal is to protect state borders from their illegal crossing. The proposed law regulates the rules for crossing external borders. Given the position of the Czech Republic, which is directly adjacent only to countries which are integrated in the Schengen area, the external borders are located only at international airports and in connection with external flights. For this reason, particular attention is paid to the responsibilities of international airport operators and aircraft commanders. The proposal also provides for a procedure for the temporary reintegration of internal border control in the event of a serious threat to public policy or to internal security. Therefore, the protection of internal borders is not normally carried out. It is an airport related to internal flights and the entire land border of the Czech Republic. The temporary reintegration of external border control will be announced in the form of measures of a general nature and will be declared by the Government of the Czech Republic. Only in extremely emergency situations where, due to the security threat, there is no public order or internal security, it is necessary to protect it immediately, will the Minister of the Interior have that power. However, the validity of a generally binding general order issued by the Ministry of the Interior will be limited to five days. The government can, of course, cancel it at any time during this period. The public will be informed of the reintegration through radio and television broadcasting. Finally, I would like to point out that the current migration situation was not an impulse to prepare this law. At the same time, however, I want to assure you that the proposed law will enable the Czech Republic to respond actively and adequately if necessary and if this situation is escalated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u3	Thank you to Minister Milan Chovanc. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Miloslav Janulík to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'm only briefly, of course. The minister said it perfectly. This is essentially a transposition, adapting to the new situation in the European Union. As stated, the external border, in our case the external border of Schengen, will be only airports, and only airports with international traffic. So in this law, this point is governed in particular. Airport with international traffic, as far as I know, there are three so far, Prague, Brno, Ostrava, and Pardubice. And, of course, my colleague, Kolovratník, warns me not to forget them. So these airports are going to be involved. Of course, there are also those marginal situations that need to be addressed, because, of course, at a time when this amendment was being prepared, there was no situation with immigrants as it is today. But it's also remembered there in the width. So I'm just recommending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. First of all, Mr Marek Černoch and others are registered with priority rights according to their electronic applications. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u6	Good Friday afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to comment on the explanatory memorandum to the State Border Protection Act. I quote: The main principles of the proposed legislation and the justification for its necessity. The proposed law is based on the Union regulation introduced by the Schengen Borders Code. This Union amendment proposed by the Act merely complements and specifies in areas in which there is room for national legislation. The new regulation thus removes existing duplications between national and Union border control regulations. Similarly, the proposed law does not contain the authorization of the Police of the Czech Republic, which results directly from the Police Act. In view of its complementary nature, the draft law therefore contains a summary of more or less isolated provisions, which must always be interpreted in the context of Union legislation, namely the Schengen Borders Code. - Now, if I could have your attention. - The design is based on the existence of the Czech Republic's external borders only at international airports. The protection of the land border is thus only regulated - I repeat, only adapted - in the event of the so-called temporary re-establishing of internal border control. The proposal represents a qualitative change to the legislation in question, which consists in simplifying, modernising and adapting it now to the firm and long-term anchoring of the Czech Republic and neighbouring states in the Schengen area. Ladies and gentlemen, the Dawn - the National Coalition is rejecting this amendment and we will do everything possible to get this proposal back to the Ministry of the Interior for a fundamental and rapid revision. At first glance, it might seem that we should support a standard that addresses the so-called temporary introduction of internal border protection, as the Dawn of the coalition has been in vain asking for protection of national borders since summer. But that would be a big mistake. The government is making cosmetic adjustments to the State Border Protection Act at a time when we need a fundamental conceptual and comprehensive solution to this issue. The explanatory memorandum states that the proposal represents a qualitative change to the legislation in question, which consists in simplifying, modernising and adapting it now to the firm and long-term anchoring of the Czech Republic and neighbouring countries in the Schengen area. I don't know if you've noticed or not that the Schengen system is collapsing. Have you really not noticed that Brussels is not able to force Greece and Italy to make the European Union's external borders really exist? Is it really so difficult to notice that, as the President rightly named it, Brusel is copying the decadent phase of the demise of the Roman Empire, when he would rather give up blackmailing Turkey and give billions as a ransom like the Roman Empire was buying barbarians? Brusel admits that when more than a million immigrants came to Europe this year, it should be up to three times next year, i.e. three million immigrants, and we are facing similar numbers over the next few years. In this situation, the coalition presents an amendment to the State Borders Act, where the explanatory memorandum states that the design is based only on the existence of the external border of the Czech Republic at international airports. It's scandalous! On Wednesday, when approving the state budget, we asked for three billion to set up border police and five billion for electronic devices to monitor the movement of immigrants both on the green line and at border crossing points. Our proposals have been swept off the table, and at least we hope for the words of the Minister of Finance, Mr Babiš, who, in preparing the state budget, claimed that there is a four-billion-dollar reserve in the budget to address the immigration crisis. The approval of the state budget is a must for the country, its non-approval would be a gamble, but allowing you only a cosmetic amendment to the protection of the state border would be an unforgivable mistake. In order not only to be critical, as a transport pilot, I welcome the amendment to the announcement of flights at airports without the permanent presence of the Foreign Police Directorate. But dawn clearly supports administrative punishment in the area of border control. Again, however, the most fundamental is missing, and this is the question of tightening up the asylum policy according to the draft Dawn, which you also rejected during the autumn. I mean, first of all, the rejection of asylum for persons who illegally cross national borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u7	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. Next in the debate, Mr Martin Lank. Mrs Hnyková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I understand that there are many among us who consider electronic records of sales to be a more fundamental subject than the protection of the state border. I understand that for some reasons. You understand, we can't afford to just cross state border protection without saying our thing. I would like to support the President of our Membership Club Marek Černoch and ask you to support our proposal to reject the amendment to the State Border Protection Act. In our view, it is clearly necessary to return it to the Ministry of the Interior for a fundamental revision. I am a member of the Security Committee of the House and, together with my colleague David Kádner, Chairman of the Defence Committee, we have already held a seminar on state border protection in September of this year. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Interior and Defence were present at this seminar. Representatives of the Czech arms industry were here. The media then informed extensively about the possibility of deploying drones, technologies that would allow us to guard our borders without having to build fences in Sumava or otherwise destroy our beautiful nature. The representatives of the General Staff at this seminar also stressed that long-term protection of national borders by the military is not possible without limiting the performance of other tasks, such as NATO. In my opinion, everything was said so that everyone with the rest of common sense would know that the Republic must quickly build border police, or, if you want to do so, significantly expand the foreign police and invest quickly in technologies to protect national borders. During the autumn of Úsvit and Bloc against Islam went to support the President of the Republic before Strakov Academy, where we asked the government or the Security Council of the State to listen to the President and to begin to address border control of the Czech Republic. In November, because the government ignored the President's call, we had no choice but to demonstrate with Mr. President at Albertov. Sadly, since then, Prime Minister Sobotka has been kicking the president with whoever was at Albertov instead of discussing why these people were there and what they demanded. But let's keep going. It is the beginning of December and this week unfortunately we have completed a sad, unsuccessful struggle for the form of the state budget. Again at the third reading, we appealed to what we said at our seminar in September, at the first and second reading of the state budget discussion, what we said before the Straka Academy at the State Security Council meeting at Albertov. Please, dear coalition, conceptually solve the protection of the state border. Ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday, the coalition voted for the state budget without allocating funds to protect national borders. And today we have an amendment to the Act on the State Borders, which says: The draft is based on the existence of the external borders of the Czech Republic only at international airports, as has already been said here. The amendment talks about measures of the so-called temporary protection of the state border, and the explanatory report is pleased that the amendment responds perfectly to European Union standards. [[15.40 hours]] I join the question of my colleague Marek Černoch: Do you mind that this whole standard completely ignores the current reality, when Brussels, Italy, Greece and other states have completely failed? Doesn't the coalition really understand that it is absolutely essential for the Czech Republic to stop hoping that Brusel will solve this and that we must now be able to take care of ourselves in particular? When we were at the club discussing whether to propose the return of this standard to recast, we weighed two views. On the one hand, the standard brings progress by addressing the competence of police and other forces in so-called. temporary border protection is certainly both a standard and an asset in terms of sanctions against those who cross the border, but on the other hand, and that is unfortunately more important, does not solve reality, and that is the long-term conceptual protection of the state border. When we weighed one side and the other side of the proposal, whether it is really a better standard to go back to redoing and not to ask for moderate but substantial progress, a smiling argument fell from my colleagues at first glance: the coalition is probably afraid of Brussels, so if it does not adopt a standard that addresses the link to European Union law, the government will have more incentive to quickly redo the amendment and return it to the legislative process so that someone in Brussels doesn't happen to get angry, so that someone doesn't accidentally shorten our subsidies, even worse, someone could shorten our subsidies in agriculture for large companies. The smiling thing is, of course, very tragic, that the government is afraid of Brussels and is afraid to deal with the long-term protection of state borders, and it prefers to copy the bureaucracy of the European Union, which refuses to accept the real situation. However, if the government is already afraid of Brussels and presents cosmetic solutions to the House instead of real solutions, this does not mean that we, while we are in opposition, will just stand by and do nothing. Our duty and unfortunately the only option is to do our utmost to force the government, the coalition, to change its position. And I admit that from time to time, a voice of common sense will appear in the coalition, but unfortunately it is subsequently screamed or denied, and then we have no choice but to monitor closely whether these screams are a purposeful populism or a really intended statement, which is then silenced. Ladies and gentlemen, for those of you who hesitate a little bit about whether we are not right, it is now the perfect time for you to show up in the vote and support us in our efforts to return this standard to the Ministry of the Interior to a fundamental recast and to send a major appeal from the House to the government - to create a concept of long-term protection of the state border responding to the migration crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u9	I thank Mr Martin Lanka. Now, Mrs Jana Hnyková, Mrs Olga Havlová will prepare herself. Once again, I will ask the House for peace to hear a contribution in a dignified atmosphere. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues... Mr President, I am indisposed and cannot scream. Please calm me down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u11	I will therefore ask you, Madame, not to start your speech until the House has calmed down. In the end, colleagues and colleagues are likely to have enough time before we run out of this point. When he calms down, we can continue. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u12	Thank you. I'd like to be home, too, but just protecting the state line is important to me. This week the State Security Council took place, where the present Minister Chovanec presented an analysis of the security situation at the border with Austria. This analysis showed that most of the assets at border crossing points were sold or leased. Yes, we have casinos or businesses like ours in Harrachov. Today, they're actually just mapping the remains of what the state still owns. This is primarily the land that should be used as a checkpoint. This decision cannot be classified as short-sighted. The state has basically resigned completely to the fact that it should be guarding the borders sometime in the future. Didn't anybody really think about the back door? As long as we're getting something out of it, security's in second place! It's just as prudent as selling a kindergarten building in the absence of children and then wondering in seven years that demographic development has shifted and that there isn't enough room for children. After all, this happened two years ago when statistics say there was no place in kindergartens for 50,000 children. Schengen has created a mantra that is subject to everything, for some it is truly holy, but it does not really work today. The mass of illegal migrants blew Schengen out like a house of cards. There are still proposals to create a Minskhen where Germany, Holland or Belgium would be the only ones. We cannot be overly attached to Schengen, because we should not be attached to what in a moment. The priority must be our security. The fear of people of chaos and injustice is justified, and I believe that you encounter it every day when you talk to your constituents. A million illegal immigrants came this year. Millions more are expected in the coming years. Our government must wake up from a pink dream of safety and take action. A very bad signal is that the coalition did not approve of the allocation of eight billion for border control, which we proposed to move in the state budget. It is clear that the migration crisis will continue in the coming years. I'm asking how we can protect the boundaries, where we can allocate more resources. Border and security protection are absolutely fundamental issues for me, which, in my opinion, the government must address. However, we must admit that there is an additional risk with refugees, a health risk. As a woman and, above all, a mother and perhaps a future grandmother, I still have to ask how the Czech government plans to protect its citizens. Like every mother, I must be worried about our children, and I'm worried about them, and so are the citizens of our country. You will agree with me that refugees leave countries where health care is at a significantly lower level than in Europe and the Czech Republic. There are practically no vaccinations, there are diseases that our medical students learn only from textbooks and which we have eradicated over time. It is these diseases, ladies and gentlemen, that are common and deadly in their native lands. In fact, the Ebola virus has also appeared in the territory where some came from. But this scarecrow is a scarecrow of doctors from all over the world. But even ordinary measles, mumps, or smallpox could cause calamity in our population. Even in the media, it is common for us to read that refugees, for example, have pulmonary chlamydia, which may not occur freely in Europe at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u13	Madame, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House again for peace. Before the House calms down, I will read at least two apologies, Mr Milan Šarapatka and Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who apologize until the end of today's day. And if there's anything else going on, please, in the lobby. Please continue, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u14	We are absolutely not prepared to increase people who can be carriers of these diseases or parasites that are not life-threatening to them, but can cause us great complications, even death. Let us admit that our organism is not at all adapted to these diseases or their mutations and is not resistant to them. Of course, the most risk groups, children and seniors, are at risk. I believe that the government here is gambling on the health of our people and completely ignoring the provisions of the People's Health Act No. 20/1966 Coll., which clearly states: The care of the health of the people focuses primarily preventively on the protection and continuous consolidation and development of the people's physical and mental health. Particular attention is paid to caring for the new generation and protecting workers' health. Instead of prevention here, the government, under the baton of Brusel, intends to allow the risk of contagion to such an extent that we can't even imagine it, and yet, ladies and gentlemen, we only need one infected and we can have hell here. That is why I ask again how we will protect the state borders if we do not allocate the resources. A safe border and a safe home are very important to me, and therefore the proposed amendment to the law is insufficient for me and I join my colleague Marek Černoch to return this amendment to a comprehensive recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u15	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková, and we will continue to sign up for the debate by Mrs Olga Havlová. Please, Madame, you have the floor, and I believe my colleagues will be at peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we are coming here today to discuss the law on the protection of national borders. It's a topic where we criticize the government for a long time. The government should have protected the Czech border by now. It's not just our opinion, it's what the President says, it's what security experts say. No state can afford not to know who crosses its national borders. Today, unfortunately, my colleague David Kádner, chairman of the Defence Committee, cannot be here today, who has flew to places that, unfortunately, we also need the protection of national borders. David asked me to remind you that he had already held a seminar on this topic on the Defence Committee with Martin Lank in September of this year, where, in the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Army of the Czech Republic, we clearly specified what needs to be done for the long-term protection of the border of the Czech Republic. The security situation in Europe is changing dramatically, and we need to respond to that. It is to a large extent about the courage to admit that we must fight our own security in the world. Only random checks are carried out at the Czech border, but above the long-term police capacity. All police forces are already deployed at the cost of many overtime. Regional special order units were deployed primarily to patrol camps for immigrants. Now, in pre-Christmas time, their commitment to security measures is commendable to reduce the risk of bank robberies. It is a notorious fact that during this pre-Christmas period, the criminal activity of the robberies is growing sharply. However, inland departments are weakened by border service, where there are not enough people for direct service. There are no people to explain classic crime. What does that mean? If we continue to protect the border by the police for a long time only by the forces that the police have today, we will be reduced to explaining the crimes. To draw a picture of the situation, e.g. The whole South Bohemian foreign police have less than a hundred people today, which is absolutely inadequate. They are those who are in charge of the entire agenda of foreigners and immigrants, but most importantly, they are those who are in charge of the normal state border control regime. I promised to remind you today that border control will not solve the military's long-term commitment. This can only work as a temporary solution over the horizon of about six months. That is why we need to look for measures that will be really long-term. Consultations with security experts show that 3,000 members in border areas would be sufficient to protect the state border in the deployment of modern technologies. This would mean about 10 per cent increase in the status of the tables and approximately 10 per cent increase in the number of police budgets. We are talking about 3 billion a year for 3,000 new police members who could prevent the influx of illegal immigrants from moving into our territory when I believe that the cost of illegal immigrants for the future will be higher in our country than if we invested in the police, which seems to be much more advantageous from the point of view of security versus costs. The budget of the Ministry of the Interior does not count on any system measures at the Czech border. While Minister Chovanec has managed to increase his budget, only a fraction will go to strengthening border control. It certainly cannot be said that the Czech Republic is going to finance some systematic measures for border control. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior's budget does not allow such essential internal transfers, for example. technical border control could be financed without increasing the budget. I don't think we should deal with the consequences, but the causes. If we invested funds in protecting national borders and prevented illegal immigrants from coming to us, we would save a similarly large amount of money to deal with the consequences of illegally joining us. Unfortunately, extreme political correctness has passed through European and Czech policy, which is also reflected in the fact that the government does not have the courage to propose laws that will actually protect the Czech Republic. They're more of a glamour than a solution. Before I can get to the analysis of the Government Act on State Border Protection, I would like to introduce you to the measures taken by the government that face the problem and are not afraid to present radical but effective solutions. This is Hungary. So what steps has the Hungarian Government taken in the context of the immigration crisis? The most famous measure is the construction of the border fence. Hungary has completed the construction of the border fence on the Hungarian-Serbian state border on 15 September, when it has also entered into force an amendment to the Hungarian Criminal Law, which criminalizes damage to the fence and illegal entry into Hungary. The provisions of Section 5 of the State Borders Act allow for the limitation of ownership rights for property owners located within 60 metres of the State border. In the event that the restriction of ownership significantly impedes the proper use of the property, the owner may apply for the expropriation of the property. Hungary also started construction of the border fence on the Hungarian-Croatian border on 17 September. Furthermore, in the wake of the refugee crisis, major amendments to the asylum law have been adopted by the Hungarian Parliament. For example. it is possible to reject an illegal immigrant in accelerated proceedings, e.g. in cases where it fakes documents, lies or e.g. Destroyed his travel documents. The amendment to the asylum law allowed a state of crisis caused by mass immigration in the form of a government regulation, either in the whole territory or only in a certain part. The crisis caused by migration was also declared by the Hungarian Government. Furthermore, I would adopt an amendment to the law on admission and residence of third-country nationals. With effect from 1 August 2015, it is possible to apprehend a stranger without a valid travel document instead of the original 12 hours for up to 24 hours with a possible 12-hour extension in case of application. Personally, I consider it a very important amendment to criminal law and to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which introduced crimes of illegal crossing of a closed state border. For the offence of illegal crossing a closed state border over a fence protecting that border, the perpetrator is subject to imprisonment for up to three years, in the case of the use of weapons or as a criminal offence as a participant in armed mass riots for up to eight years, and in the event that the offence of illegal crossing a closed state border is committed, another person has been killed for up to ten years. The National Defence Act was also adopted, according to which defence forces can use weapons to protect national borders in the event of mass migration. The National Defence Act also allows the use of pyrotechnic projectiles, tear gas and rubber projectiles. Now to the Czech Government's response to the immigration crisis, i.e. to the law on the protection of national borders. The Ministry of the Interior proposes this law as a projection of the Schengen Border Code into Czech legislation. This Union amendment proposed by the Act merely complements and specifies in areas in which there is room for national legislation. The new regulation thus removes existing duplications between national and Union border control regulations. [[16.00 hours]] Given its complementary nature, the bill contains a summary of more or less isolated resolutions. Its aim is to simultaneously prepare the Czech Republic for the upcoming Schengen evaluation in accordance with the Council Regulation of the European Union. In order not only to be critical, the law also regulates the rules for the temporary re-establishing of internal border control, as well as offences and administrative offences relating to border control. I can already hear the criticisms of our opponents that there is no need for more forceful measures and that everything is okay because the migration wave at the Czech border has just eased. I want to say to these opponents: Can any of you guarantee the Czech nation that we will never be exposed to the situation that is exposed to Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia, Austria or other European countries? Can you guarantee that there will not be a migration crisis in Europe again in the coming years? No one can say that. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] The problem is the opposite. All the facts suggest that the immigration wave is in no way over. I'll give you at least three reasons. The European Union is unable to protect the European Union's external borders, even though everyone is calling for it to do so, even though it is still being done. He just can't protect the border. It has been a year since thousands of immigrants have rolled into Europe, and no real solution has been accepted. The only step taken by the European Union was the immigration quotas. That's all the Union has done for our safety. All the endangered states understood that no one would take care of them, they all had to take care of themselves. That's why we have a fence in Hungary, which is why Austria is now building a fence. The second case - the situation in the Middle East or elsewhere in the world will not simply be resolved. Refugees from the struggle of affected areas, economic immigrants, all come from places where problems are long-term. There will be a war in Syria in a year. Afghanistan, Iraq, and Africa will not miraculously become rich through the winter, and the vision of a European social state will drive illegal immigrants further. And three. European politicians across the continent have actually invited refugees here, whether it be Chancellor Merkelová or in the Czech Republic for Minister Dienstbier. Illegal immigrants only made it to Europe over a million this year because they saw it going so easily. The European Commission expects another 3 million immigrants to come to the European Union by 2017. That's the best evidence we could possibly ask for. That's why I'm appealing here. The Czech Republic must protect its borders. There must be a sufficient legal environment and, of course, adequate resources must also be allocated to this. And I do not understand the government coalition's move to reject, within the framework of the state budget for 2016, spending money on technical security of state borders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u17	Thank you, Mrs Havlová. Once again, Mr Marek Černoch is registered. [[Screams from the left side of the hall: Jesus Christ!]] I ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u18	Thanks again for the word. The shouting "ježíšmarjá Christ!" Was it ours? Or how are we supposed to understand that? I'm sorry. Maybe it doesn't matter to you, we care about border control. I beg such cries of "Ježíšmarjá Christ." Thanks again for the word. Just a brief summary. From our point of view, the government's proposal is only cosmetic and we really think that borders need to be protected effectively. Just look at the reports that say that Germany places its centers near the Czech border. And it is necessary to protect the Czech Republic from penetrating, whether consciously or unconsciously, illegal immigrants in our territory. That is why I would like to propose that this law be brought back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u19	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? The Minister is interested. First the Minister, then the rapporteur. [[Ask the Minister how much time he has.]] As much as you want, Minister, you have time. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u20	Good afternoon, once again, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I cannot but react, although I would like not to react, but there is simply a need to fight some delusions, and where other than in the House of Deputies, where one has a chance to say at least the whole thing. Because in the media, it always ends with one title or one sentence or one short conversation at most. Everything you are proposing here, colleagues from Dawn, through Mr President, means one single result in this equation: a withdrawal from the Schengen area and a withdrawal from the European Union. If we want to pay this price, if we're ready to pay it, let's go there. But the will in this Chamber of Deputies, in the Senate and I firmly believe that most citizens of the Czech Republic are simply not. We must force European states to fulfil their conditions, their responsibilities. We must force the Greeks, the Italians and other countries to defend Schengen. I go to those European meetings. And we were the only Slovák at the beginning who very intensively and very loudly called on colleagues from these countries to stop taking European money and doing what they should. Today we are in a situation where we are no longer just us and the Slovák, but we are in a situation where almost the whole of the European Union is saying this. I agree with you that paying Turkey is a short-term measure. But it is a stabilizing measure and is currently not passing seven to ten thousand people a day to Europe, but there are, for example, two thousand people flowing. It's obvious that the quantity of incoming people has decreased. Those aren't Tasty Apples. It's just a simple fact. To date, we have 125 people in our detention facilities. We predict it'll be under 100 people by Christmas. These 100 people are mostly those who will be there for a long time because they do not have valid documents or have not fulfilled legal conditions. Believe that we take border protection very seriously. But they are part of the Schengen area, and you are calling us here to close the border with hermeticity, including technical equipment, including fencing, which is a return before 1989, and I personally do not want to be there. Because other than that, Dawn friends, there's no way to defend them. It's not. To hire cops. What you're talking about here. In the police action plan for the next five years, the increase in the number of police officers is 4,000 and it will be a huge problem to get them. We recruit cops, recruit firefighters, recruit security intelligence, recruit the military. And we don't really have that many young skilled people who are able to do psychics and test prowess in the Republic. Even if we try today and get money from the Treasury Secretary for another 3,000 cops, I guarantee you we won't just find them. Crime in the Czech Republic, which would be directly linked to the migration crisis, does not exist. The state will solve the effects of the migration crisis on the Czech Republic. We don't have a problem at the moment. Hungary is in a different situation. Hungary is a border country of Schengen. They built a fence, and I didn't criticize them for it. The measures taken by the Maďar, I think, are no longer being criticized by other states. Is that what you're calling for? [[16.10 hours]] Technical border control - yes, we're working on it. Land and property that has been sold - but if we do not leave the European Union and Schengen, we can only close the border for six months under applicable legislation. We don't want to buy buildings at the border and land again. The analysis of the Ministry of Interior was linked to the fact that we describe suitable land, suitable possible migration flows or streams, and we are ready to deploy mobile devices very quickly and efficiently for these. Mobile devices like cells and tents. Within the time and in the order of hours and days, we will be present at that border. Police of the Czech Republic with the army guarantee that we are able to solve the Czech-Austrian border in the range of military exercises within five hours. Five o'clock! Personally, I think that the migration crisis will not be raised in the spring to the extent that it was last year. Germany understood that it could no longer afford to receive a million migrants a year. And you're right about her limping registration. At present, when you're talking to Švéd who have received themselves in the framework of relocation, and today they want it to be reallocated from them, they'll tell you that by the end of the year they expect the arrival of 200,000 people, of which at least 15 percent are adult unaccompanied migrants, but out of the 200 thousand people, only a fraction is registered. This is the bad news for Europe that someone gets through several Member States without being in any registration, and that needs to be changed. We must keep pushing what we have been pushing from the start: so that the Řek, the Ital, start fulfilling their conditions and that we are able to extort them. When you look at the last initiative of Germany and France, the text of the letter is exactly the same as what the Czech Republic said six months ago. We are glad that the partners in Germany have come to this. Protection of the Schengen border, international forces at the border, the construction of international police forces and the clear division of people who need help and people who are economic migrants and do not have a chance to obtain asylum in Europe. This is the way for the Czech Republic. Your journey from my point of view means the closure of the Czech Republic and economic disaster. And that is what the government of the Czech Republic will face. People chose us. We're doing everything we can to make this country live well. We are the tenth safest country in the world. Tenth safest! And we're gonna do everything we can to make sure that doesn't change. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u21	Thank you to the Minister of the Interior and I would like to say that I have three registered on a factual note - Mr Holík, colleague Lorencová and Langšádlová - that neither of us can speak because we are after the debate. It was the Minister's final word. If Mr Marek Černoch is registered with the priority right, I cannot give him the floor now because the rapporteur has the same priority right, so now the rapporteur, Mr Janulík, has the same priority right. Please, rapporteur, with the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u22	Mr President, colleagues, I cannot do this because when I look at my colleague Petr, we live on that border, unlike you. I've lived there my whole life. And I really don't miss the line, the wires. I really don't. [[A round of applause for the majority of Members in the Chamber except for the members of the KSČM.]] So I don't understand how you guys are so crazy about standing up there and standing there in those uniforms. Just really, we're living there, just leave it to us, please, just the way we're supposed to. We've dealt with it somehow, the shooting range's gone. We don't even care that no one controls us when we go to Austria, from Austria. I've had to drive almost every day for the last 20 years. And really, when I hear from you Pražák guys how great it would be, if things got sloppy again, I really don't have to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u23	Thank you. I may have expected something different from the final word, Mr rapporteur, but there is nothing I can do about it, because I expected a summary of the debate and a clarification of the proposals that we will be voting on. [[The rapporteur is speaking loudly to Mr Zavadil and is not aware that the President is speaking to him.]] Mr rapporteur, please listen to me before I give the floor to my colleague Černoch, who has the right of priority. I did not understand what Mr Lank said, because he said no, and then he proposed a re-evaluation. A colleague of the Černoch said... [[Mr Janulik asks what the President needs from him.]] I will sum it up for you, Mr rapporteur. Return to recasting. Hnyková and Havlová said the same thing. So I just want to clarify, if you've noted the debate, whether the motion to dismiss was explicitly there or not. [[Voices from the right side of the hall.]] He was once. Colleague Lank and rejection. Okay. Well, we're clear on that. Now with priority rights, Mr Marek Černoch. And now we're clear on how we're going to proceed. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u24	Thank you. There is only one proposal, and that is a proposal for recasting. Thank you. The Minister's words -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u25	I must say that I listened very carefully and Mr Lank said in the debate that this is a motion for rejection. That is why I have asked the rapporteur, when he is watching the debate, that is not my duty, that is the rapporteur's duty, as is he there or not. You say, perhaps you can speak for your colleagues, I do not think so, because the performance of the parliamentary mandate is personal. But you have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u26	Thank you. The rapporteur did not listen. To the Minister. Minister, we never criticized you for your work. The criticism, which is, is for legislative proposals, for legislative procedure. You're doing your job. We went to see, it wasn't that long ago, at a facility in Bělá, where we said that the facility is very well secured, the police are doing, doing their job well. The whole facility is running very well. On the contrary, we were very surprised that the people who are there have a choice of three meals plus three other diets, they have free medical care, kindergarten, gymnasium, just all the benefits that I don't think a lot of our citizens have. And to any criticism, whether it was from Šabatová, by the UN, by an activist of a Russian singer group in quotes, it is not appropriate that it is conducted in a very good way. And the police work is on a very good level. I think that as far as recruiting policemen is concerned, there is one other thing that would also be good to say, these are salaries, the salary conditions of policemen, because they are people who are performing - and it doesn't matter whether they are border police or whether they are law enforcement - they are people who really do their job well and are supposed to be paid for it. Like firefighters, paramedics and other files, nurses and so on. [[The noise level has increased again in the hall.]] As far as the European Union is concerned, yes, you said that it would be necessary for Italy and Greece to reach an agreement and for other states to agree. On the Committee on European Affairs, we are fighting for the European Union to find at least partial legislation, European legislation, which will be the same and will be the solution, because those states are unable to agree between themselves when Greece proposes something, Italy does not put a stamp on it and vice versa. The hotspots that were mentioned in the summer aren't working, that it's the salvation of everything. Within a few weeks, it was clear that it didn't solve anything at all. That is why we need to look for a common policy that Europe either does not want to find yet or is simply unable to find. And without a common policy, no one can solve the immigration crisis without a solution. It's been spoken for a very long time, and Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš spoke of the need to protect the Schengen border. We have been saying this for more than six months, that it is necessary to protect the Schengen border. Nothing's happened in all this time. All possible operations called fancy names, such as Poseidon, mean one overcrowded barge. It's just a media massage for people to feel like something's going on. It's okay. One ship is unable to provide protection of the Schengen border. [[Unbearable noise in the room.]] Therefore, when the states began to take care of themselves, when they began defending their own citizens' security, as Hungary did, remember, Minister, that sometime in the spring Maďary were spoken of as the devils of Europe, Orbán was called the greatest devil. And a few months later, the whole of Europe thanked him for standing up to it the way he did. And this is true of all states outside the Czech Republic. Now, of course, towards the rapporteur. Nobody wants fences, and I don't know how it was understood, what we were talking about here. But we weren't talking about fences, barbed wire. Although at some point, that's just what it takes. But at the moment, we were talking about technical security. To ensure that no one who has anything to do in the territory of our Republic is seriously affected. [[16.20 hours]] And the last point: whether or not the migration crisis will rise. At the beginning of last year, official information from Frontex and the European Union spoke about 340 000 people coming to the European Union. Look at how many there are in the European Union today. Almost a million and a half people. In one year. With forecasts and predictions for next year talking about three to six times. [[Disgruntled voices from the O.R.]] It's my reaction, I have priority rights, it's my response. And that's a problem that can change very quickly. Just like in a lot of states. These are just points to what the Minister and the rapporteur said here. Just lighting that we're not yelling here: Let's build wires and fences! etc. It is only a defense that we are trying to effectively and really protect the border of the Czech Republic and citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u27	That was Mr. Marek Černoch. And we'll go back to the procedure. We have a proposal for - Mr rapporteur - we will therefore vote first on the recovery of the proposal for recasting. Mr. Lank, I'm asking if rejection is valid. Deal, so we're gonna vote no. If it fails, we will vote on the commandments of the committees. I'm gonna check you all out first, ask you for a new registration. [[A deal with Mr. Lank.]] So my colleague Lank states that rejection is not required. We will therefore vote first on the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. We will decide in the vote number 257, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. For re-evaluation. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 257, from 125 present for 8, against 80. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will proceed to vote 258. I'm asking who is in favour of the Security Committee's commandment as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 258, from 126 in favour of 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? Mr. Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u28	I'd suggest we discuss the defense committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-007-047.u29	For defense, okay. Anyone else? Nobody. We will vote in the vote order number 259, who is in favour of the command of the Defence Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 259, from 127 in favour of 35, against 56. The motion was not accepted. I note that this proposal has not been ordered to discuss the next committee and the time limit for the hearing remains 60 days. The Guarantee Committee shall be the Security Committee. I conclude item 47, thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. And since we have exhausted the fixed points for today's meeting, I am also interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by Tuesday. I'm looking forward to seeing you at 2:00. Fixed points on Tuesday 15. 12. are promotion of sport, recognition of professional qualifications, health protection and protection against tobacco products. Unless, of course, the House's decision changes that. Have a good weekend!
