ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u1	31. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, Act No. 551/1991 Coll., on the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, as amended, and Act No. 280/1992 Coll., on Resorts, Fields, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Companies, as amended /German Press 386/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health will present this press to Svatopluk Němeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the draft law amending the law on public health insurance and other related laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u3	Minister, I am very sorry, and I ask that the groups in the Chamber of Deputies either settle down or transfer their discussion to the foyer. This also applies to the presidents of the parliamentary clubs. And the Chairman of the Social Policy Committee, too. [[After a while, the debating Members broke up in their seats.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u4	The main objective of the proposed bill is to strengthen the state supervision of the financial flows of health insurance and the functioning of health insurance companies, as mentioned in the programme statement of the Government of the Czech Republic. On this basis, it is proposed to amend the legislation in the laws governing the public health insurance system and the activities of health insurance companies consisting in particular of the publication of contracts for the provision and reimbursement of services by health insurance companies, the provision of information to health insurance companies to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance or the specification of the legal regulation of obstacles to the performance of directors and members of health insurance bodies. The publication of those contracts will increase the transparency of public funds in the field of public health insurance. This is a comprehensive regulation, which I spoke about here before Christmas in the context of the discussion of the draft law on spa care. This proposal requires health insurance undertakings to publish basic contracts, including payment add-ons and any amendments, no later than 60 days after the date of conclusion of those contracts. Moreover, together with these contracts, health insurance companies will also publish whether or not they are governed by a payment decree in the present case, which will increase the clarity of the published contracts. This is a proposal which has undergone a proper legislative process and which, of course, also addresses related issues of personal data protection or the adjustment of relevant sanctions. As regards the regulation of the provision of information to health insurance companies to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, the proposed proposal removes a long-term non-compliant situation where the ministries concerned often do not have the detailed information necessary to carry out their duties. These are mainly data and information necessary for the creation of payment mechanisms, monitoring the local and temporal availability of health services or developing the redistribution system. This information is available to health insurance companies, but is not provided for by a statutory obligation to provide it to the Ministry. For example, when creating payment notices, the Ministry of Health is often based on general data and data which do not have sufficient relevance, and therefore it is desirable to extend the authorisation of the Ministry of Health to obtain the necessary information to help ensure effective spending of public funds by the public health insurance system. The definition of obstacles to the performance of functions for persons having an effect on the decision-making of a health insurance undertaking in order to avoid conflicts of interests of those persons constitutes measures ensuring impartial decision-making by the senior health insurance bodies, which has a positive effect on the proper management of the insurance undertakings. In the context of the effective use of the financing of the public health insurance scheme, the proposal also contains other provisions concerning, for example, the prohibition on the recruitment of insured persons through third parties, the reduction in the compulsory allocation to the reserve fund or the abolition of the hedge fund, which no longer fulfils its function and its operation is loss-making. The proposal also includes appropriate regulation of administrative offences. Furthermore, the material contains adjustments to partial problems arising from application practice and development in medicine and some legislative technical refinements. Mr President, honourable Members, the proposal tabled is one of the measures aimed at increasing the efficiency and transparency of the public health insurance system, and I therefore believe that you will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u5	Thank you, Minister. Please the rapporteur, who is Mr Rostislav Vyzula.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, basically the gros has been said. I would just add some information to make this novel, which we have been waiting for a long time, closer to us. First of all, the proposal that is here is a matter of fulfillment of the tasks arising from Government Resolution No. 308 of 28 April 2014. It then concerns the points that were divorced here. And maybe I'd just briefly add some data. As regards the publication of contracts for the provision and reimbursement of services by health insurance companies, this is what we discussed here in detail just before Christmas. This is public money and therefore the public has the right to see if there are any irregularities in this area. It is currently possible to obtain such information, but only on request by means of Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information. To the next point. As far as the provision of information to health insurance companies to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance is concerned, I think everything has been said there. To the next point. Prohibition of recruitment of insured persons by health insurance companies through third parties. Here I would like to point out one fact that according to available data of the Ministry of Health, for example, there was 1. 1. 2012 to the non-standard transfer of approximately 24,000 insured persons from the General Health Insurance Corporation to the Military Health Insurance Company, which meant a reduction in income by half a million per year for the CSA. Not to mention that those third parties are using very unfair methods to mislead the clients. [[15.10 hours]] As regards the reduction in the compulsory allocation to the reserve fund. Here is the proposal that this should be 1.5 percent of the average cost of the basic fund, which would bring some revenue to total health insurance, that is true. On the other hand, the reserve fund is very important. It covers all expenditures, extra expenses that occur and that cannot be taken into account and cannot be foreseen. That's why it's a reserve fund. And it seems to me that this percentage is too low. As far as conflicts of interest are concerned, as has been said, we will see what we can do about all this. The aim of the amendment is therefore to strengthen the state supervision of the financial flows of health insurance. I must say that previous governments have also dealt with this, but unfortunately no one has yet evaluated these efforts. It is necessary to determine what data the Ministry will require and, in particular, to declare whether the adequately educated apparatus has or complements it. The proposed costs mentioned here appear to be insufficient so far. However, given the importance of this amendment, I recommend a second reading and propose that the Committee on Health be discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate for which I have three applications so far. The first is Mrs Soňa Marková and Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me comment on this bill, which we also sometimes call so-called. a transparent novel. This amendment aims to regulate new areas such as the compulsory publication of contracts for the provision and reimbursement of services by health insurance companies, the extension of the information obligation of health insurance companies to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, the ban on the recruitment of insured persons through third parties, the reduction of the allocation to the reserve fund of health insurance companies by half, the refinement of the legislation on conflict of interests of members of health insurance institutions. If we conclude that this is the first such extensive government amendment to health laws prepared entirely by this government and that it is presented to us after a year of its operation, I believe that this should already be a systemic comprehensive change, which reflects the biggest problems of our health care and its solutions. However, it is clear from the simple list of areas in which it interferes that this is not quite the case. The government has already prepared material for itself in the spring of last year, where it identified the biggest health problems and divided them into three areas. The first were problems that can be solved almost immediately within the Ministry's activities, e.g. the activities of the Instrument Panel. The second point was, then, problems whose solution requires relatively simpler legislation. And then there were problems, systemic changes, whose regulation was supposed to be part of a wider amendment to the relevant laws that we were supposed to have on our desk at this time. The reality is, however, that only the instrument commission was part of the first group, the other points sort of stuck halfway. The rapid changes that were supposed to be effective at the beginning of this year eventually became the text that we have before us today and we are to assess it. The long-term changes here are not yet in sight. And it doesn't systemically solve much of this novel. So what's he dealing with a little bit more detail? So in terms of the publication of contracts, it is basically an amendment that we have already approved once so that the Ministry, as a gestor, would change its mind and in voting on the text returned, was already against this amendment. Moreover, the publication of contracts by at least the largest health insurance company is already under way, with other instruments available to us to cultivate public control of payment contracts other than the law. Moreover, as is apparent from the very nature of the payment contracts, the disclosure of these contracts does not give us any factual evidence, so it will be highly imperfect information. The second point addressed by this amendment is the extension of the information obligation. This is where the information obligation of health insurance companies extends primarily to the Ministry of Health. How? The Ministry has identified that it lacks the information it needs to create payment mechanisms for the public health insurance system. Furthermore, monitoring the local and temporal availability of health services, maintaining and developing an insurance redistribution system or monitoring the economic efficiency of health services. There is therefore a question as to how the Ministry of Health has done so far, how payment orders have been prepared, how the Ministry of Health has monitored the fulfilment of the obligation of health insurance companies to ensure the local and temporal availability of paid services, how the Ministry has so far worked on the cultivation of the redistribution system, which we have been hearing about for a long time. What is the cost-effectiveness of health services, we do not know exactly. We have it defined for medicinal products as a ratio between the costs and benefits associated with the use of a medicinal product or a food for special medical purposes compared to the use of another medicinal product, a food for special medical purposes or a treatment procedure. The State Institute for Drug Control is also working with this value and the Ministry of Health already has access to this data. For medicinal products, we also note that cost efficiency is a subject of business secrecy. What is the cost-effectiveness of health services, we no longer know. We do not know if it is part of a business secret, and we do not know what the Ministry of Health may or may not do with this data. Another theme that is interwoven with this amendment is then the ban on recruiting insured persons through third parties. Here too, we can only agree with the intention. However, practical implementation is somewhat limping, since it does not exclude the possibility that health insurance companies will accept for any kind of non-employment agreement practically even the same persons who have carried out the work for them so far, thereby becoming a third party and can continue to pursue the same practices. The next issue then concerns reducing the allocation to the health insurance reserve by half. However, this measure of all those considered to be presented to us is perhaps the worst and most irresponsible. The system that manages CZK 200 billion cannot function without reserves. Already the reduction from 3% to 1,5 percent was irresponsible, but another reduction to 0,75 percent is somewhat incomprehensible. [[15.20 hours]] Only because, for example. VZP v so-called Some 14 billion crowns of reserves have accumulated for years of abundance, the effects of the world economic crisis have not been at all apparent in the first years, and the decline in recent years has not reached catastrophic proportions. The provisions of health insurance are provisions of care providers, because if there is still a stagnating or even a decrease in the collection, the insurance companies will be able to pay the providers in time and in the necessary amount only thanks to the reserves created in previous years. Without insurance reserves, insurance companies run out of money very quickly and start paying providers late and less. Funds from reserve funds, i.e. basic funds, respectively. to bail out the lack of funds on the basic funds that can now be used. So I don't know exactly where this is going in the government novel. In addition, the reserve fund should not only be used as a bailout fund, but in crisis situations such as pandemics, etc. It is not clear here how the petitioner can propose such a drastic reduction in the reserve fund without assessing what means would be needed for such handling of the crisis situations, so whether such a proposed reserve is sufficient. Despite these shortcomings presented by the government amendment, I recommend that the bill be passed to second reading and further discussion and further work that the Committee on Health should do to supplement the standard, to improve so that it fulfills not only the intention of the petitioner, but, above all, to contribute ultimately to ensuring quality health care for citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u9	Thank you. Another in the general debate is Mr Hovorka, Mr Heger will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u10	Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to make a few comments on the bill tabled. He contains some good things and also contains some things harmful. I'll name the good things first. Of course transparency is important, but this concept of transparency, when contracts are not conditional, virtually. publication is not subject to validity or its effectiveness and is not subject to publication, of course it brings the problem that we can look at in the case of the proton centre. If the system were to apply that the contract, if not published, is not valid and is not effective, the contract of a future contract with the proton centre concluded by the then forced VZP administrator would never have entered into force and any arbitration and any litigation would have lapsed. I'm just giving it to the Minister to consider. What is important - I also consider the ban on health insurance companies to recruit insured persons through third parties to be a commission. At the same time, I consider it appropriate that if, after a long stay abroad, the insured person returns to his health insurance company in the Czech health insurance system, then the period of re-registration must take at least two months before the insured person can receive care, in order to prevent speculative use of cheaper health care in our country. And that is, unfortunately, very common for people from abroad to come, to the Czech Republic to do maintenance of their body, and of course it is at the expense of our public health insurance system. I also consider it good that the amendment specifies what health performance is meant in the list of performances and what the conditions for declaring such performance are. If there is no agreement between a health insurance undertaking and a healthcare facility, the reporting shall be governed by the rules in the list of health performances. At the same time, I consider it appropriate that health insurance companies are required to transmit to the Ministry of Health information from the information system for the creation of payment mechanisms and monitoring the effectiveness of health services free of charge. I think that the obligation of the members of the administrative or supervisory boards appointed by the ministries should also be enshrined here, so that they have an obligation to inform their ministries of what is happening in health insurance companies, because, unfortunately, today there is an obligation to remain silent and I think this is in complete contradiction with the effective exercise of supervision of health insurance companies. But now I'm going to mention things that I think are wrong. As of day 1. 2. 2016 shall be deleted without compensation from the health insurance reinsurance fund, which was almost exhausted a few years ago in favour of an exceptional redistribution for the R&D&I. It was at that time a sum of CZK 3 billion, I believe, in 2011 or 2012, when this amount was actually collected from all health insurance companies and sent to VZP. The reinsurance fund was originally intended to satisfy claims of any liquidated Employee Insurance Company. At the same time, the Ministry of Health admits that the State Institute for Drug Control is unable to carry out an in-depth complete review of medicinal products in treatment groups in three years. Therefore, it is proposed to extend the deadline for in-depth reviews of medicinal products to five years and to supplement them with shortened revisions. I remember when Minister Julínek promised here in 2007 that the system of in-depth revisions in groups would bring huge savings in drug costs. It turns out, after all these years, that it is not enough for three years and that this period should be extended to five years. Lowering the reserves of health insurance companies is undesirable and dangerous. At present, the collection of insurance premiums is increasing and it should be remembered that crisis situations can be repeated as they are cyclically repeated. For this reason, the Health Committee recommends that the Ministry create conditions in the payment decree for the fulfilment of the health insurance reserve fund, so I assume that it is not possible to further reduce the reserve fund. When dealing with conflicts of interest between the Director and the members of health insurance bodies, it should be borne in mind, of course, of the close ones, but I assume that this part of the law in particular will be the subject of a major discussion on the Health Committee, because the resolution of conflicts of interest will, of course, constitute an obstacle to practically all doctors who have contracts with health insurance companies. I consider it important to move the dates for conciliation and the creation of a payment order to an earlier date, on the ground that it is not possible for the payment decree to be adopted at the end of the calendar year. And let me give you a practical example. The remuneration decree for this year was published in the Collection of Laws 23. 12. Its final form is significantly different from what it was preparing and which health insurance companies were familiar with. This, of course, poses a problem because there is an increase in health insurance costs beyond what they had prepared and approved in their health insurance plans. For example, only in the General Health Insurance Corporation does this increase of 1.6 billion, which this insurance undertaking has to deal with in some way. [[15.30 hours]] And what is important - I still want to say that this law does not solve the problem in any way that, for example, the important Agel healthcare chain and the third largest health insurance company, the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Corporation, is controlled by the same controlling person and there may be advantages for certain providers at the expense of others. I would like this law to be released until further reading for discussion - for expert discussion - in the Committee on Health, where I expect amendments to be tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u11	I thank Mr Hovorka, and before Mr Heger comes forward, I have Mr Nykl's point of fact. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u12	Good afternoon. I would follow up on what Mr. Hovorka said. I am quite satisfied with the law, with the proposal, it is nicely done, but there is the section 18, in which there are two points that say that the members of the board of directors of the insurance company must not be people who actually have a contract with the insurance company, provide services. I think that this is not well solved, because it is people who work in health care and understand it often more than people who are a little distracted from the health care that they have the advantage that they are able to work on that board more professionally than those who are not in the field. And the truth is, it's just that it's transparent, or if these people have a contract with the insurance company, that contract is now public, or it's going to be public, or it's going to be published, so that everyone can see if the person who's on the board of directors and who works in the health department doesn't have any benefits. So I would have liked to have these points adjusted here in the health committee during the discussion, but otherwise, overall, I have no big comments on the bill, and I am glad that the time has been fulfilled when we discussed the proposal by Mr Hovorka in December - it has been said that a government proposal will come soon, so it is fulfilled and that is a good thing and we have time here to adjust some of the details in that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u13	I thank Mr Nykl. Another duly signed up is Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I don't think I'm gonna talk long, a lot about the importance of the law has been said here, so I'm just focusing on a few things. There has been talk of the fact that the law brings a number of positive matters, I can only join it and certainly the TOP 09 and the Mayors will support it and we have no greater reservations about the details. Perhaps I would just mention in detail that the reserve fund is a matter that seems extremely important. But when we realize that the reserve fund, whether it has been larger or reduced already and will be even more reduced, covers payments that in health insurance mean the cost of one to three days. So it's a very, very small volume of resources. And there is a more or less established institute of state protection at least over the General Health Insurance Corporation and the state of its prepayments, possibly by loans, is capable of crisis matters such as the health crisis caused by the economic crisis and reduced collections of insurance premiums, so it can bridge, although it is often unable to increase payments for insured persons at the right time of crisis. So, personally, I wouldn't particularly overestimate the height of the reserve fund. Of course, there are other reservations, other details on which there were reservations, such as what Mr Hovorka said about the dates of some things. I would like to add a term of health insurance plans, which are kind of always with a payment decree in a collision, etc. This needs to be further worked on, as it is necessary to continue working on computer science in the long term, I would say management informatics over the whole system. I don't think it's true that the Ministry doesn't, and in the past, have no data available to do any system analysis. The problem is, in the past, maybe too much emphasis on the system's management analyst, but on the other hand, where the Ministry wanted to get the data, it got it, and it was able to do it. What is regulated in the proposal that insurance companies must carry out a certain spectrum of data on a flat-rate basis, on a continuous basis, without any further debate, is correct purely in terms of the operation of the system and operation of the Ministry of Health, and thus facilitate the work of the Ministry. That's all right with you. But there's one thing we need to say that Mrs. Marková has already started here. The law is, to a large extent, a code of law and it forms, together with the Services Act, essentially two pillars on which the provision of services is based. The Health Services Act or the Health Services Act say how those services are provided correctly when I simplify it, and the Public Health Insurance Act says how those services are paid, i.e. how the payments are paid, how the money gets into the system, what is the involvement of patients, how we know from countless discussions about regulatory fees, how they are redistributed by withdrawals, etc. However, it is necessary to admit that we have certain defects since the public health insurance system was established here, from which I would choose precisely the payment mechanisms and the reimbursement of the pricing that are causing enormous problems despite all the experiments that have been here to correct it. It has to be said that although the ministry, which was once led by Tomáš Julínek, is still very critical of the implementation of regulatory fees, what happened in this era is under-appreciated, and this was a clarification of pricing and rules for the reimbursement of medicines. This was a groundbreaking step that brought certain points into one third of the payment mechanisms, although the order was set up for many years before it settled, before other minor adjustments in the legal mechanism and algorithm were cut off by some tips, but basically this step started in 2007 led to payments or drug prices, and how many health insurance payments are being paid in those payments, one of the lowest in Europe today and, on the contrary, we are meeting the issue of not high price pharmaceuticals, but the issue of lack of medicine on the market because prices are somewhere too low to move in the market environment where the pharmaceutical policy has to move from the European directive, so the environment is being undermined by the very low prices. [[15.40 hours]] But the pricing of drugs is only one pillar. There are two other key pillars, one of which we have already discussed here in this House during the Act on Medical Devices, from which the pricing was removed. But according to my information, it is being continued at the Ministry, and I hope that this zone will be able to once boast the success of bringing order into medical devices. But what is missing in the law in a key way in history and in today's novel, which, although mentioned by a minor amendment, refers to specifying the assignment for creating a list of performances, is basically still missing what we are referring to, and that is the pricing of our own health performances. In particular, I would point out that there are no rules for the entry of new performances, new technologies into reimbursements, causing enormous tensions between health service providers and health insurance companies. Things always work out over a few years, but there's so much energy and political struggles that politicize the process that there really is a need to do something here. And I think that one small and one big affair that we could follow, the large - proton radiation that we have already talked about, and the other, a very sharp and long debate about relative trifle, that is, the remuneration for the performances associated with the administration and treatment of stem cells, clearly demonstrates what I said - that mechanisms are underdeveloped and that we are moving on very thin ice, even when it comes to constitutionality in the direction of the patient's claim to care. And here it is necessary to continue working. I hope that I will be able to put forward, and I hope that I will succeed, an amendment that will further extend the rules regarding the creation of the list of performances and the entry of performances into payments, because what we have experienced in the past time, when there have been attempts to define in some way more precisely the copayments, which today are divided only into co-payments of zero, which are somehow prevailing in our system, and the co-payments of 100%, which prevail for such things that are mentioned in the law, such as acupuncture or in the annex to all payments that are happening legally around cosmetic performances, that is insufficient. And even since now it is not a political environment to open up the question of excesses again, at least it is necessary to open up the question of whether it is legal when the Constitution commands that the law commands the patient to get everything he needs, unless the law provides otherwise that we have a whole range of performances that cannot get into the list of performances, because it is not up to them, whether we want to admit it or not. The rules on how to delay a little something that is not and that is not yet fully proven to be effective, as was the discussion of stem cells, must have more precise rules on us not to be moving on this constitutionally thin-to-breaking ice right here. That is, in conclusion, my little complaint that the amendment has not yet been dealt with. There is a need for discussion on this occasion, when the law is open, also to reopen and try to find some kind of penetration of all interests and political directions and needs to put together in the law of constitutional matters. So much for this bill, which, as I repeat once again, will certainly support our club and let it go into the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u15	I thank Mr Heger. Perhaps I won't tell too much if I congratulate him on his birthday today and wish him the least possible use of the health insurance we are discussing in the future. Thank you. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] Another duly registered member is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u16	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The law that we now have on the table is really very necessary, and it must be said at the beginning that the amendment, which is the content of this law, is really good, that it opens up a number of things that have been unsolved and unsaved. I could agree with practically all of my previous speakers who have spoken here. I agree with my colleague. The nykl that experts are supposed to be there when it's decided. I agree with what my colleague Heger said about some shortcomings. Even the words of my colleague Marková contained a number of things that are essential. However, what bothers me about this law is the general principle of our approach to health care and the provision of health services. I've had experience with insurance practically since it started. I know all the variations in his development. The system has one crucial flaw all along. The lack is that we are constantly dealing with what the health system costs, what the costs are in individual items, where we should save what we should pay, but we are not at all concerned with the effectiveness of the treatment process. We're still talking about cost and we're not talking about the concept of benefit at all. And that really belongs to every activity, that activity costs something, but it also has to give something. She gives, of course, but it is an insurance system where we have as one of the other players an insured person, a citizen, and he should know what the insurance company offers him, in what quality and with which result. VZP has a huge pool of information on what treatment looks like, data on how long hospitalization times are at individual workplaces, what rehospitalizations are, relapses. We've got all that. Still, it never worked. It has never been worked out whether an insurance undertaking enters into contracts with an establishment that is of high quality in the competitive struggle of individual facilities. And what I want to open here is the question that we should, in some form, allow information on the outcome of the activities of individual health establishments to be public information. It's not a new thing. There are a number of countries where patients have this information. We even have a specific working group in Canada, which are train drivers that go across Canada and get on one end and go for two days and then go back two days. They have one peculiarity in their health insurance that the union has won. When they are ill, they can choose any medical facility in Canada and the whole of the United States when they are seriously ill. [[15.50 hours]] And because these engineers are very common cardiac disease, because it is bound to this type of profession, so they go to surgery in the United States and really to the best clinics because they have information about not naming it, to Mayo have such and such results, and therefore I go there, and the insurance company pays it as an extraordinary benefit. This depends on the fact that insurance companies should actually be interested in having contracts with facilities that work well. We're very, very funny about this. We're not talking about it, we're hiding it. We have centres of excellence or centers that deal with super specialized care, and we decide whether or not they have enough equipment purchased, whether or not they are equipped, but not according to whether their results are better or worse than the others. This is a fundamental and fundamental error. She kind of based on the fact that data from the Institute of Health Information were simply mistreated, historically it was just written on paper that no one could work with. What started now, and it started with the Ministry, for which it is necessary to commend the Ministry, this Brno workplace simply gives the assumption that we could start working with facts such as the outcome of the treatment. Just an insured person has the right to know where he is being treated, and an insurance undertaking has an interest in concluding a contract with someone who is well treated, and even - I speak myself against my general profession as a doctor - so the insurance undertaking should have the right to say: yes, I will not conclude a contract with this facility because it does not meet the quality standards that I consider to be standard for this country, and we do not have that. In addition, we are such a strange and funny country that when a new treatment method or a new preparation appears somewhere in the world, it is not generally used as a standard anywhere in the world, but we already have a huge fight to make this type of treatment covered by health insurance. If we don't stop this, all this talk about publishing contracts is good, but it's just A that doesn't have a B, and it won't work again! It's just because we're going to have data about how it was negotiated, how much the insurance company pays there, but we won't even know if it's meaningful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u17	I'm sorry, colleague. I ask that you continue after the House has calmed down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u18	I almost got scared that I couldn't go on, but the result was good. I think that this is really a very crucial thing that this House should start to deal with, because, after almost 20 years of being able to participate in all possible negotiations on insurance and its system, I am convinced that if we do not start talking about the quality of care and results on the one hand of the coin, we will never reach out to cost, the price, in some form, in some kind of reins that will govern it, and all the talking about excess standards and regulatory fees loses meaning when we do not know whether we are actually giving it to someone who actually does it in some standard or extraordinary form. I would very much like it to start talking about this, because we have a whole range of health laws, and this point remains very, very unsolved, and I am convinced that it is actually the most important part. Because what's the goal of health care? Heal a man in the simple version. And we're not really dealing with that. We're looking into what it would cost to heal if we could. And if we do, we don't know. This does not change the fact that this bill is a good proposal, that it is a proposal that goes forward, but I would very much like, in this form, to open the door for this journey to further discussions on how health care is to be financed by the way of insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u19	I thank Mr Svoboda and congratulate the Minister. It is not often that opposition Members so vehemently commend government bills. [[Fun.]] I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one reports, I am ending the general debate and I am asking about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur, if any. Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only allowed to speak very briefly and, in essence, I want to thank you for the very cultivated debate, the rational one that has been said on this proposal. I want to confirm here that, of course, we are aware that this proposal addresses several specific serious problems of Czech health care, that it does not solve everything. We really didn't have this ambition, and I don't think it would be real. As I have noted, where there are a little different opinions, this is on the matter of the reserve fund, where I agree with what has been said here that it is really a pseudo-reserve fund, because at the moment when there is a really serious problem, it is still unable to stabilise the health insurance system and must intervene by the state. But thank you here and for opening up other topics that we will probably have until second reading, we will not solve and we will not transform into legislative, but I want to say to the Chamber of Deputies that we are working on a lot of things, although some things simply require time. I think the big problem with Czech health care in the past was that we wanted to speed things up, that we wanted to avoid working it out, prepare it conceptually, prepare it. I think that especially with regard to the work of the IHIS as some data base for the Czech health sector, there is a great shift thanks to its new director, who has already proven that he knows something, and I believe that this will also be discussed within the health committee and within other forums where this should take place. I promise we'll work on it and we'll come up with other things that will shift developments. So I think these are the concrete steps that we are now putting forward to help, but we are aware that they are not the only ones and that they must follow others, but I say some things just need work and they need time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-013-031.u21	I thank the Minister and we will discuss the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Health. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. There's a request for you to check out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We shall proceed to the vote on the commandment submitted by the motion for discussion of the Committee on Health. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 133; 142 Members and Members are registered, for 142 Members, against none. I note that the proposal has been adopted and this bill has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item number
