ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u1	199. Report on the performance of financial market surveillance in 2014 /German press 530/ The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The resolution was delivered to you as House press 530/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Jaroslav Klaška, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, let me introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of the 27th meeting of 2 September on the report by the Czech National Bank on financial market supervision in 2014. Following the opening words of Czech National Bank Deputy Governor Vladimír Tomšík, Jaroslav Klaška's report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies: I. Notes the Czech National Bank Report on Financial Market Supervision in 2014; II. Recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank Report on Financial Market Supervision in 2014.'; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of this resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u3	I thank the rapporteur and initiate the general debate to which the Governor is reporting. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u4	Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, honourable Members, Members...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u5	So far, only the Vice-President, Mr. Governor, but perhaps you know more in the Czech National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u6	It's never too late. But I'm just gonna keep it short so I don't keep you too late on Friday. The financial market surveillance report shall be a standard document. It relates to 2014. In 2014, we did not notice any dramatic changes in the structure of the financial market, we closed one campel, we acquired one branch of the Japanese bank. As far as legislation is concerned, we have transposed very important banking directives from the European Union and the regulations that have strengthened meant strengthening the regulatory framework of the sector. We amended the Act on investment companies and funds and amended the Act on savings banks and credit cooperatives. In secondary legislation, we have issued 12 decrees, 18 measures of a general nature, 11 official communications and 8 communication on the issue of guidelines. With regard to the exercise of supervision, we have been monitoring remotely and through controls. I will mention that 39 checks have been carried out in banks and credit unions, while 28 checks on investment service providers and 79 controls on insurance intermediaries have been completed in 2014. Four checks were carried out in insurance companies. As far as sanctions are concerned, we have finally ended 77 sanctions. As regards supervision of compliance with consumer protection rules, two thirds of the submissions are more or less equally distributed between insurance and credit institutions, as in previous years, complaints about pre-contractual information and charges prevail in insurance, in credit institutions mostly in the field of payment and fees. We were a little focused on the checks on the demands of the new Civil Code to bring it closer, the possibility of withdrawal from the contract in the first month after the conclusion of the deposition in the first two months. At the level of international cooperation, in addition to cooperation with the European institutions, I will pierce involvement in ten colleges of European banking groups and one with headquarters in the US. As regards the financial market in 2014, it is a stable market, achieves good economic results, the banking sector is healthy, well-equipped, has no liquidity problem. Cooperative reserves - management has improved somewhat, on the other hand the quality of the credit portfolio has deteriorated. We're talking about 2014, I remind you. As far as securities traders are concerned, the sector has developed positively, collective investment assets have increased, the sector has shown profit. Pension companies - the sector has achieved a positive economic result. Insurance companies also, the sector stabilized, made a net profit. There was also a recovery, i.e. to increase gross premiums and increase the balance sheet total of insurance undertakings. This is where I dare to stop and wait for your questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u7	Thank you, Mr. Governor. Another party to the general debate is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'll admit I had a not-long, but a little longer speech than I'm gonna give, but since we've wasted enough time today, I'm gonna try to cut my speech as short as I can. But after all, I'd like to take advantage of the governor's presence. As has been said here, we, as the Committee on Budgets, had a meeting with the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank last week, and there was a marginal point that I consider important, and we will probably be discussing this in the Chamber of Deputies shortly, and that is the supervision of the Czech National Bank on the non-bank market. I would just briefly point out that we were here last year discussing our proposal, which tried to address this, was not adopted by the Chamber of Deputies at third reading, but I believe and dare say that it provoked a very useful debate on this issue and on this issue, which probably resulted in the government drawing up its own amendment, which it approved, and we will probably be discussing it in the Chamber of Deputies shortly. I should go to the governor's office - I'll go right to the end, I'm really not gonna stretch out today's time, and I'm gonna go to the very end of what I had prepared. Three brief questions to the governor, if he could answer them. For the supervision of those non-banks there is a limit, bail or proposed limit for the capital of CZK 20 million. If you consider this limit to be well-elected, you think it should be stricter or more benevolent, or how you think it will affect the troubled and unbalanced non-bank market. Second question, very short. Some critics of the bill, and I stress that I consider it very useful that this amendment of the law came from the government after last year's discussion, warn that part of the non-bank sector will move to the so-called. gray or black spheres. If you think that the benefit that this amendment will bring by regulating it and that it will really be supervised, which I consider to be very correct, will be significantly greater than the fact that - I believe that it will probably happen, or I suppose it will, of course, be wrong that part of the legal operators at the same time, thanks to being under the strict supervision of the Czech National Bank, will shift to the grey zone, if it outweighs the negative that will become this. And there's a third, short, last question, and that's really it. We remembered there in the Czech National Bank, or the topic was also remembered that basically some loans can be dealt with under the Civil Code as a citizen among citizens. Of course, it may not be possible to do this on a commercial basis in bulk, but of course it is also a risk where part of these loans, or such strange loans, can be realized. If you could, I'd like to ask the Governor for a brief comment on these three questions, and I really won't be holding up any longer today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u9	I thank Mr Fiedler. The governor wants to answer? Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u10	Thank you for asking. It is not very easy for me to talk about this topic, because we generally felt that this sector, which is not systemically significant, was not generally something that central banks would necessarily have to do, but, of course, if the Chamber of Deputies and Parliament decided to entrust it to us, we would do it as properly as possible. In the way we do this, we are limited by the opinions of the European authorities, which say at the same time in similar situations, when it was possible for example. in Slovakia under the central bank, they said yes, well, but they must not tie it to the really fundamental activities of the central bank and burden it or overload it. So one of the tools to keep it from being overloaded is the fact that the sector will be transcended at the moment it gets to us and cleared. To make sense of the license, I consider the 20 million to be a reasonable dose, i.e. That regulated entity has something at stake to answer the first question. The second question about moving into the black sphere. We've been trying to get a section in there, which, at least in the gray field, reduces the profitability of such a business. They do not allow the recovery of certain profit elements from the unregulated credit thus provided. Thus, those who would like to operate in the gray sphere will not be able to access the profits through the judicial system, which should help. On the other hand, I have no illusions that the black system can't just be a matter for us and law enforcement authorities anymore. That's how we get to the guy. Like everyone else, it's only a limited opportunity for neighborly help and many other things in the community, so they just have to be prosecuted when it goes beyond - which is the last question. So, together, although I am not entirely happy that the central bank will acquire this new area, if you decide this way, because there are reputational risks that are not entirely negligible and, of course, it is an operationally additional sphere of activity that we will have to manage, I understand why they do so, and I believe that the law can lead to an improvement in that state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-11-ps2013-036-08-001-199.u11	Thank you, Mr. Governor. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I am asking the final words of the Governor or the rapporteur. Not interested. We will proceed to a detailed debate, which I do not register for any application. If no one reports, I will conclude a detailed debate. There's no interest in final words here either. We will therefore vote on the motion for a resolution, as the rapporteur has said. [[14.30 hours]] I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's a check-out request. I hereby remove you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as presented by the rapporteur, Jaroslav Klaška. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 249. 120 Members and Members are registered, for 120, against none. The motion was accepted. I thank the rapporteur and the governor, who will please wait. The next item is the item
