ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u1	124. Report on extremism in the territory of the Czech Republic in 2013, Evaluation of the Implementation of the Concept of Combating extremism for 2013 and the Concept of Combating extremism for 2014 /German Press 239/ The Minister of the Interior is ready, so please Mr Milan Chovanec to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to a material called the Report on extremism in the Czech Republic in 2013, Evaluation of the Implementation of the Concept of Combating extremism for 2013 and the Concept of Combating extremism for 2014. The report on extremism on the territory of the Czech Republic in 2013 describes the major events and trends that occurred in this area. The first passage of the report contains information on the development of the right and left extremist scene at the country-wide level. The most significant event in 2013 was a series of anti-Romani demonstrations lasting from May to October of this year. These meetings pointed not only to the risks of active involvement of the local population but also to the outbreak of other riots in places that were not identified as problematic. Later, police forces became the goal of the demonstrations. The protest assembly of the extreme right also mobilized the scene of opposers. Civil activists and representatives of the Romani minority were also joined by supporters of the extreme left, but the conflict between them may have taken place very marginally. The first part of the report contains information on the number and nature of the actions, structure and number of supporters. Individual subjects are discussed in detail. On the right extreme scene it is especially the Workers' Party of Social Justice, Workers' Youth or militant neo-Nazi cells. From the point of view of left-wing extremists, knowledge about the scene is available such as Marxist-Leninian and others. Overall, 211 crimes with extremist subtext were committed in the Czech Republic in 2013, representing 0.06% of the total amount of crime. This was the same percentage as in the previous year, i.e. 2012. The last passage reflects important foreign events and trends that have had an impact on the domestic scene. A separate document contains an evaluation of the implementation of the Concept of Combating extremism for 2013. The focus of activity was on managing and preventing extreme meetings. These were, for example, police matters, such as training, education, the use of anti-conflict teams, or the direction of law, such as training, methodological activities in the area of assembly agendas. A special task force was set up at the Ministry of the Interior for this. [[12.10 hours]] The concept of combating extremism for 2014 has given a number of new challenges. The following areas should be the focus of activities: prevention in socially excluded localities, management of anti-Romani marches, assistance to victims of extremist criminal activity and their protection, targeted repression against neo-Nazis and hooligans, elimination of individual excesses by so-called lone wolves. The concept of combating extremism for 2014 has no impact on the state budget and other public budgets. The material was taken into account last April by the Security Council of the State and approved by the Government on 21 May. On 4 September 2014, it was noted and recommended for submission to the Chamber of Deputies by the Security Committee. The current issues of threats related to religious extremism are addressed by another independent document, and this is the Strategy against Terrorism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u3	Thank you, Home Secretary Milan Chovanc. I note that the report has been discussed by the Security Committee, whose resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 329/1. I ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Václav Klučka, take the floor as the absent rapporteur Jana Černochová, in agreement with the committee, so we will not vote on this, inform us of the committee's deliberations and make a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Let me therefore give you information on the 42nd Security Committee resolution of the 11th meeting held on 4 September 2014 on: Report on extremism in the territory of the Czech Republic in 2013, Evaluation of the implementation of the concept of combating extremism for 2013 and the Concept of Combating extremism for 2014, House press 239. Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the introductory words of the first Deputy Minister of the Interior, Dr. Jiří Nováček, following the report of the rapporteur of the Committee of the Magistra Jana Černochová and after a general and detailed debate 1. Notes Report on extremism in the territory of the Czech Republic in 2013, Evaluation of the implementation of the concept of combating extremism for 2013 and the Concept of Combating extremism for 2014; 2. Instructs the President of the Security Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; 3. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic - which I have done on its behalf.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am launching a general debate in which Mr Tomio Okamura has joined. I don't have another application yet. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really - I don't know if I'm concerned about this, or if I'm disappointed that I'm always here - I've been like this in the Senate, and now I'm in the House and there's always some sort of report going on, half the hall isn't here, the rest is talking, then my hand just goes up and goes on. Dear friends, I can't do this! We should not only agree and raise our hand for these reports, but at the same time I would expect a government concept of a solution to prevent such phenomena from happening, of course a functional concept that would actually take effect. In addition to repression or some evaluation of the report, we should talk about what is causing citizens to demonstrate against Rom people, for example. And no one's naming that. Again, I have a question for the Minister: What is actually extreme? What is the real definition? I know you said we were gonna talk about this at another point, which is why I'm not gonna go into it in depth. When a foreigner with a long-term stay, the chairman of the Muslim communities, Mr Alrawi, publicly says in his sermon: "To learn to hate not to acknowledge Alláh, i.e. hatred against all the unbelievers in Islam - even to me, I do not know who among you is believing in Islam, but I certainly do not, and at the same time calls on parents to beat their children from the age of ten, that it is an appropriate age when they can beat them, if they do not want to pray to Alláh. So this view is obviously not extreme, because the police are not acting or applying a paragraph of the Act on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic, and it is neither against public order nor threat to security. So this extreme is not in the Czech Republic. But - extreme are citizens in České Budějovice who are demonstrating against Rom people. That will appear in the report. I consider it absolutely scandalous, dear friends, such an assessment! A citizen who, on the contrary, is discriminated against and bullied, a decent citizen who still pays himself in those Czech Budejovice police who is supposed to protect him, and Romani fellow citizens are laughing at these taxpayers from the windows of the panels, laughing at their faces, so these citizens who pay taxes like sheep to some inadaptable groups will appear in the report on extremism. I can't believe this! And on the contrary, it doesn't matter who, whether a stranger or a non-alien who is preaching open hatred for all of us, nothing is happening at all, the police aren't doing. But the Minister hasn't been there yet, so on the contrary, I have a compliment for him right away. Isn't that quite the opposite? It's absolute chaos in our state. We should clearly define what we want to promote here. I'll go to the next point I wanted to say. The reasons for this behavior, dear friends, is what I said at the outset. We're always here to agree on a message, but we have to fight our reasons. And if - I don't know - the vast majority of citizens are not satisfied with the behavior of the Roma minority, then we must do our utmost to make this change, they are also Czech citizens. But here Mr. Useless Minister, Minister Dienstbier, when both yesterday and the House voted that she didn't really want to listen to him in some laws, that he would rather invite someone else, so Mr. Useless Minister - I must say, I don't know if without a job, but pretending to do some work - he didn't design any functional concept. On the contrary, we see that this is exactly the opposite, and the situation in Czech society is only getting worse. I just want to say that we should clearly identify what the majority society is dissatisfied with and try to set rules - without political correctness, dear friends, on the contrary, politically incorrect, openly. And in that I commend Minister Chovanec because he is one of the few politicians who can speak politically incorrect, which is a good thing that he has social democracy in the ranks of maybe one, maybe two, maybe three, but a few politicians who really speak openly. Whether we agree or disagree, it is always a good thing when there are politicians who speak plainly. At least there's something to discuss. That's what I'm missing here. There is absolutely no concept of this government, which would be usable and actually dealt with these moods in Czech society, justified by the majority's moods. Completely justified moods. It is absolutely scandalous that decent citizens find themselves in the explanatory report on extremism, and the rude ones do not appear there. This is really the top, this is incredible, I'm telling you. Next thing. So I ask again and I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior whether he would answer me whether Mr Alrawi statement, the President of the Muslim municipalities of the Czech Republic, is extreme or not, from his point of view. I've quoted it twice already. They're short sentences. He literally says in the sermon: In order to learn the hatred of not recognizing Alláh, that is, to hate us all unbelievers in Islam, and at the same time in the following seconds he asks that when children are ten years old, you can beat them if they do not pray. So does his colleague at the Brno Mosque saying that the Zionist state has no right to exist, a state recognised by the UN. Whether we're proponents or not, I'm asking. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this is an extreme opinion or not. Yes or no. That's all. I say it is extreme and we should be affected and we should end this person's stay in the Czech Republic. And another thing, and that is, I must say, commendation to the Minister, because what is happening here in the Czech Republic last year, when there was a raid at the mosque on the Black Most, a police raid on the hateful book Basics of Tahied, and I have to commend the Minister, because I, as one of the few, was already in favour of the Police of the Czech Republic last year, which, on the basis of the media chase, had to almost apologize for the intervention against this extremist and radical book. The Minister held the police up and was almost manipulated by the Police of the Czech Republic that she had to apologize for the intervention. So it's important at these moments to hold these organs so they don't worry about interfering in this case. [[12.20 hours]] I'm just gonna say two short sentences about what's going on in this book. And I am glad that even the Police of the Czech Republic, as I read in the media, has several expert opinions that the intervention was justified. That's what Mr. Robert Šlachta said. Among other things, the book reminds of one of the principles of Islamic law and that is the inequality of unbelievers with Muslims before Alláh and his laws. He writes, and I quote, one sentence: "It involves a group commitment to implementing Alláhův's laws everywhere on earth. Therefore, the believers in Alláhův's eyes are superior to the unbelievers because they accept their responsibilities." Furthermore, the book in another sentence states that existing democracy, which means our system, contradicts Islam and belief in Alláh. And once again, I quote one sentence. Since the term ibada means absolute obedience and Alláh is considered to be the supreme legislator, the introduction of worldly legal systems, that is, ours, which is not based on Alláhův's laws of Shariya, is an act of disbelief in Alláh's revealed laws, writes the author on page 26. So it's a book like this. In my opinion, quite legitimate police intervention, but as you can see, the police almost had to apologize for the intervention. And when the Muslims spread the carpets next to the Home Office, if you remember that, with this Mr. Alrawi in charge, who preaches such things here, there was almost a multicult scene applauding them, and our true-tellers headed by Mr. Dienstbier, Mrs. Šabatová, perhaps even Mr. Halík. This means that I really support the Minister in this regard because he has behaved bravely and has opinions that I often agree with. But I'd just like an answer to the question of what extremism is. There I wonder yes - no, those statements by Mr Alrawi and, of course, before what I said, the overall view, or whether some government strategy will be put forward to actually reflect on the causes of the majority's dissatisfaction. Not that the majority is responsible and that the majority are racist and xenophobic. That's completely nonsense. That would be 80 per cent or 90 per cent of xenophobes and racists who are not satisfied with the various inadaptable minorities. This means not some senseless strategy, but a real strategy that would set it right. And I say the best strategy is to get people to work. Work and honor. Besides, that's the password someone else said in the past, but it's true, by the way, dear friends, to this day and we're forgetting a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u7	Thank you, Mr Tomio Okamur. Now, with the de facto remark of Mr Roman Váňa, I note the Minister's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask President Okamura through the President not to insult the citizens of the Czech Republic that they are sheep. I don't think it's appropriate to say that from this point on. That's one. And secondly, I would ask him not to call me "friends" to the Chamber of Deputies, or at least call me "friends." We're not friends, and I say that from my point of view. And from Mr Okamura's point of view, I've heard that in Dawn, you can't be friends with other politicians the same way, so I don't think that's appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u9	Thank you, Members of Roman Váňa. Now, Mr. Home Secretary. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was just about to commend the work of the Security Committee, headed by Roman Váňa. And it's not because we're from the same political side and we're friends, we call ourselves even, but it's because the committee is looking for ways. We can't at the House of Deputies Forum think we're gonna find some kind of self-saving material. This is about looking for him in committees, and Roman Váňa is doing a very good job with his fellow members on the committee. And that's when we're discussing with the police president, let's say it's with the representatives of GIBS. But I was last at a meeting where all three of our secret services, representatives of the committee, were, and we discussed these issues very closely. I think the Czech Republic has forgotten in the past that security space needs to be developed, and austerity has affected, for example, things such as a 20 percent reduction in BIS capacity. I don't want to deal with cuts and other things. I don't want the atmosphere in the Chamber of Deputies to start. But picking up the BIS at a time when the security risks were increasing significantly, 20 percent of its capacity, it just wasn't good. We are at the beginning of a new trend and a new procedure where the government and the Chamber of Deputies must find money and courage to say that security is important. If we don't, we'll give the populists space. On your question, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Okamura, on whether or not this is a criminal offence, what the representative of the Muslim community said. I don't know. If you're asking me if I like those words, I don't like them. Nor do I like the remarks about 9/11 that I have picked up somewhere, as well as the fact that we should allow Shariju law to be applied. But I do not think that politicians of the Czech government should escalate this problem. The problem in the Muslim community concerns its absolute minority, and I would not like us to transfer this to the basic escalation between the Czech government and the adherents of a certain religion. I'm sure that's not what this is about. The hit turned out to be legit. The report available to the police in recent weeks shows that the book was faulty, which means that our position at that time proved legitimate and correct. And that's probably all I'm able to say about that at the moment. On the issue of various preparations, when the state analyzes, solves its problems and intentions in the security area, the analyses are a large number. I am prepared, if the Chamber of Deputies wants, to share the analyses and de facto write references to publicly available analyses of the Ministry of Interior in the area of crime prevention. Suppose today is a very current cyber crime. This is the issue of the NBU, which is currently the guarantor of the fight in this area. And this may also be for a separate seminar, primarily with the Security Committee or the Defence Committee. We could talk for hours and hours. So the simple answer to the question: I don't know, but every citizen of the Czech Republic, whether he has citizenship or permanent residence, is responsible for his statements. And if such statements are made, I assume that, at least after today's debate in the Chamber of Deputies, the police will examine these statements. And he will investigate the statements of every such person living in the territory of the Czech Republic to see if he is committing a crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u11	Thank you, Minister. I have another application for a debate. Yes, Chairman Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have now been warned that perhaps the words have been misunderstood, because one of the Members does not seem to understand the words politically incorrect. That was a compliment to the Minister, because being politically incorrect is correct from my point of view. Not that it's incorrect, but politically incorrect, which means it's speaking plainly, what it thinks. And only here for Mr Váňa. I had to ask what his name was, because I honestly didn't register him here in the House, so I asked my colleagues who was actually talking to me here. So thank you for making me notice you now that you've stepped on the microphone to even respond to you. But I said the state makes citizens sheep pay taxes. Yes, you in the ČSSD used up citizens so, your Prime Minister Stanislav Gross, CZK 100 million, somehow miraculously got rich. Where do you think he got rich from? You, Mr Váňa, have been taxing people, you, the ČSSD, through Mr. President. And who do you think paid him? You out of your pocket or some private place? Your Prime Minister, Mr Sobotka - privatization of OKD. Ernst and Young, a global audit firm, said that the privatisation was overpriced by at least 20 billion. And who paid for that, the privatization of OKD? I thought tax payers from their taxes, Mr. Váňa! Or you? Or a private company? Yes, Mr. Bakal was in his pocket eventually! Apparently, he had a cheaper privatization. But, dear fellow, that you are here to think of the expression that I have said that citizens here pay like sheep's taxes, they are being squeezed by the state, and then they have undignified pensions because of your governments, most people up to 10,000, that they are often seniors because of your governments, and others, of course, are wondering whether they are going to buy extra eggs for Easter, which will be in a moment, or not, so that is absolutely impertinent, Mr Váňa through the President! I wasn't in any government. You owe the country up to your ears. It will be paid back by generations, including our children. I don't know if you have kids. And you're still saying that citizens aren't being taxed. Come on, yes, I'll tell you again. Citizens here pay taxes like sheep because of people like your governments, the state is in debt up to their ears, and they can't afford decent social security. Two million people are on the verge of poverty, Mr Váňa, through Mr President. You must be living in an aquarium here in the House or on Mars. You were in the government! [[12.30 hours]] You have 100,000 a month. You have a 100,000 a month job, you're chairman of the committee, and you're talking stuff like that? Two million people at the border of poverty, thanks to your governments, to children, to their welfare, collect plastic lids, and you say here, or you have some other feeling. You should go out on the street and ask what people think. Yes, they pay taxes, the state is squeezing taxes out of them like sheep, and they are, of course, extremely dissatisfied with it. And so was your government. So that's what I meant, and if you want to argue with it, you can argue with it, I won't respond to you anymore, but I stand firm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u13	Thank you. Now Mr Chvojka, Váňa and Zlatuška's factual remarks. First Mr. Ambassador Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u14	I wanted to respond to my honored - and I don't want to say my friend, because he's not really a friend of Mr. Okamura's previous speaker. He said he was never in government. Don't worry, you'll never be there. And you'll never be in the House again, because you're done here. With your rhetoric, you're just not interested in anyone. You can't do it. Second thing. You said something about it, and you insulted my friend Roman Váňa, who sucks out the state, how we suck out the citizens, how the citizens are sheep. I would say that who is the sheep here, that is the nine members, or the eight members of the Dawn movement, the strange movement that he is receiving, he is squeezing the money out of the state, he is receiving a large million-dollar contribution to his activity, and from the contributions that this movement will receive, then you get those contributions for making some kind of wannabe quasi-campaign. So who's going to stand here the most, that's the Dawn movement, s.r.o. And no one else. You're the biggest robber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u15	Thank you. Mr Roman Váňa, then Mr Zlatuška. Mr Váňa has checked out, Mr Zlatuška will have the floor on a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u16	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Váňa for what he said here. He was with me, too. Thank him for that. Second comment on what we have witnessed here. The Rules of Procedure state that Members do not yell directly at themselves, address themselves directly, and address themselves through the President. What we saw here was the yelling of one Member here on the other bench, in which the wording "through the President" was sometimes inserted, but clearly it was direct addressing the Member. I think that, Mr President, in such a case, you should step in and take the floor away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u17	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. I'll be tougher on my colleagues. To calm the situation, I will make an apology that I do not know was stated, because I did not agree with Vice-President Gazdík when taking the proceedings. So he apologizes from 14:30 pm, Mr Babiš and Mr Sedláček within 14:00 pm. Now with priority rights - or with a point of fact, Mr President? Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the remark that was made a moment ago is absolutely correct, but it was too late. I am convinced that the rules are to be followed, but then all must be followed. It is difficult to break the bill of illustration first, then break the law on budgetary rules, then break the law on the Office of State representation in property matters and violate all laws that are not appropriate to us from the point of view of the arrogance of most government coalition, and then invoke one law that we are about to comply with. If we were to follow these rules from the beginning all of them and consistently, then such things cannot happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u19	I thank Mr Kalousek. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. We are approaching the debate in detail. No one is to speak, but I will ask the rapporteur to make a minimum declaration to the resolution he has read in the general debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. You have made a very correct assessment of my role, because I am referring to the resolution that I tabled as a resolution by the Security Committee in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-006-124.u21	If no one else is to speak in detail in the debate, there will be only one vote on the motion for a resolution translated by the Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies in the press 239/1. We will vote on this proposal in the vote on order number 44, which I am opening and I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who opposes this proposal? Thank you. Voting order number 44, 158 for 127, against no one. The motion was accepted. The resolution has been approved, thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister and I end with paragraph 124. We'll continue with point 125, that's
