ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on registration of sales / House printing 513/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance and rapporteur Mr Klaška take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 513/3, which was delivered on 8 October 2015. The guarantee committee resolution was delivered as press 513/4. I ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-001-001.u2	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the third reading of the bill on the record of sales and recall the current course of discussion of this proposal in the Chamber of Deputies. [[Noise in the hall.]] The draft law on registration of sales was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 4 June 2015. However, the first reading began on 19 June 2015, when it was suspended and completed on 10 July 2015. The proposal was then ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets and Economic Affairs. The Committee on Budgets discussed the bill on the record of sales on 2 September 2015 and recommended in its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this bill as amended by the amendment in this resolution. On the same day, the draft law was discussed by an economic committee which had not adopted any resolution. The second reading of the draft law was on the agenda of the 31st meeting, but on 18 September 2015 the Chamber of Deputies suspended this item by its resolution and adjourned until 7 October 2015. On 7 October the proposal was passed at the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in general and in detail, and its discussion at second reading was concluded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-001-001.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask for peace in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-001-001.u4	Subsequently, the proposal was discussed by the Committee on Budgets on 14 October 2015, which recommended in its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the draft resolution of the amendments contained in this resolution. The third reading was gradually included on the agenda of the 35th, 36th and 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The 35th meeting was closed on 13 November 2015 without the initiation of the examination of the draft law. On 24 November a 36th meeting was launched, on whose agenda the draft sales registration law was introduced, but it was not firmly placed on any of the negotiating days. Therefore, it was not renegotiated. Therefore, this extraordinary meeting was convened on 4 December, the only items of which are the draft sales registration law and the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the sales registration law. It is therefore clear from the course of the legislative process described in this proposal that the proposal has already been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies several times and has been thoroughly discussed. During the first and second reading, sufficient time was given for discussion, which was also properly used. The repetition of arguments that have already been raised at third reading does not bring new ideas and does not move us forward. I would therefore ask you now to proceed to what belongs to the third reading and what is envisaged by the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Corrections to legislative technical, grammatical, written or press errors and subsequently voting on individual amendments and on the draft law as a whole. The aim of the law is to create a transparent and fair business environment in the Czech Republic. No one can deny that the vast majority of entrepreneurs call for such an environment. Entrepreneurs demand an environment in which they can successfully and freely develop their business. An environment in which those who approach their business responsibly, investing their time, energy, and their ability to reward them are satisfied customers and, of course, financial gain. We want to protect such entrepreneurs from those who abuse the system, break the rules, and ultimately rob not only their competitors, but all of us. And we refuse to tolerate such behavior. American President Barack Obama gave a sentence in his inauguration speech: Together, we discussed that the free market only threes when there are rules to ensure competition and fair play. Yes, if the state does not ensure equal conditions for entrepreneurs, fair competition is distorted and business cannot develop freely. At the same time, confidence in the tax system, which becomes less and less functional and further threatens the stability of the environment, is significantly hacked. Our responsibility is to protect entrepreneurs who are properly fulfilling their duties, because they are doing according to tax laws and rules that this state itself has set for them in the past. That is why we want to improve tax morale and to correct the distorted perception of tax obligations, which has been established here in the past and the long-term non-solving has taken on completely unacceptable dimensions in some areas. We want to show that paying taxes is normal. Such taxes that are fair to the various layers of our society. With effective tax collection, we will prove that the Czech Republic can also have low tax rates and balanced public budgets. In the past days and weeks, there has been a heated debate on the budgetary determination of taxes, particularly in relation to the tax revenues of municipalities. I would like to point out here that the Sales Recording Act will bring additional revenue both to the state budget and to the budgets of municipalities and regions, without the need to raise tax rates, which would undoubtedly affect the economy in a negative way. From the collected taxes thanks to EET, more than a fifth will go into the municipal budget, which will amount to more than 3.5 million after the full start. every year for the municipalities in addition. [[unintelligible]] The Czech Republic will not pioneer the introduction of sales records. On the contrary, from the Visegrad Four countries, we are the last to have a record of sales still in place. During the next two years, our neighbour Austria is also planning to introduce sales records. Experience from countries where sales records have been introduced clearly speaks for their benefit. Business environments have been settled and tax collections have been made more effective, even in a country such as Sweden, that is, countries with high tax morale. By the way, during negotiations with representatives of the Swedish Financial Administration, we asked them whether it is true that Swedish entrepreneurs like and pay taxes correctly. The answer was inspiring. Yes, but only if they are sure that the taxes are paid correctly by their neighbor. And we are trying to give them that certainty. Financial administration of the Czech Republic must ensure equal security for our entrepreneurs. [[9.10 hours]] The same technical system that we have chosen for the record of sales will be launched in Slovenia in less than two weeks, a country with a modern service economy and a higher per capita income compared to us. The basic difference against previously implemented systems is an online solution that eliminates the risk of data manipulation and distortion of registered data. Technological progress thus enables solutions that are both more effective and bring significant lower costs for the business sector. For example, our neighbours in Slovakia and Hungary also choose the systems of direct connection of the cashier to the financial administration. The Ministry of Finance and I personally receive many letters and e-mails to support electronic sales records. Let me conclude by quoting from a letter from a trader from Český Krumlov: "I have no problem with the introduction of the EET system, because I will not cut sales and nothing will change for us. And I think it will help us in unequal competition and that I will finally see it worth doing business honestly." So much EET. Finally, I propose that we merge the debate of the Houses of Presses 513 and 514 and that this be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-001-001.u5	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote. There's a checkout request. I'm gonna sign you all out, and I'm gonna ask for a new registration, and we're gonna vote. The Minister suggested that we merge the debate on paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. I will begin the vote on this and ask who agrees to bring the debate to point 1 and point 2 together, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 10, registered 141, for 134, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you, Minister. I will ask the rapporteur if he is interested in speaking. It's not like that. In that case, since we have agreed to a merged debate, I will interrupt this point. Opening point
