ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u1	140. Information from the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Regional Development on the financing of the European Funds monitoring system to which the President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura is entitled with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u2	I'm just checking the board. There's something else glowing, but it's okay. I was able to exchange three more sentences with the secretary, so I could explain it to make it very clear. I quoted Deputy Wagenknecht, I didn't say he was right, and even from the information I have at my disposal, and they're not all - that's why it's a good thing we're discussing this here in plenary -- I even think the truth is more on the side of the Ministry of Local Development, and today it's an opportunity to talk things out here and say it publicly. So just so that you, colleagues, understand me correctly. I quoted what the first Deputy Minister of Finance said on the budget committee. I'm not saying that he was right, and I'm not saying that the Ministry of Finance didn't fail and that the Ministry of Regional Development didn't. To explain why there was a representative of the Treasury and not an MMR. First of all, the Budget Committee seems to control the Ministry of Finance in particular, and those people go there regularly, and secondly, it is mainly a government coalition, because it has a majority there, as in every committee. Someone could have suggested it at the budget. If there were a proposal to the Minister or the Deputy Minister responsible, I would definitely vote in favour. That's how we really had information from one side. I admit it, but I was just quoting. Not that the Deputy is right. It's really weird when there's 21 checks that can't be found out, and then there's the 22nd and he says it's all wrong. I wanted to say something else, and that was basic. It was said here in the Finance Minister's speech that it was actually the Nečasův government's fault, but the Ministry of Regional Development says everything is okay. And I was a government MP at the time, even a member of this government for a few months. And it's a good attitude for me. Only if we say it's good, let's say it's good thanks to the government, and let's not criticize her for it. And I just pointed out who was sitting on that selection board that had the most information. They, of course, are legally bound by confidentiality, so I'm not after the offers and why they didn't find them - well, they didn't find them because there aren't any. Sounds like a logical explanation to me. If there's something wrong, the selection committee can't find it in a public contract. And I just wanted to point out that these people are still in the service of the state, and if what MMR says is that everything was okay, it's a good thing they're in the service of the state, there's nothing to punish them for. That's all I'm saying. The only doubt, and I insist, but maybe the Minister will disprove it, that I simply have not seen, unlike many other political parties of the government and opposition, to be correct, any major threat to the draw of 650 billion. Maybe moving the deadline, maybe increased demands on the state budget in the order of hundreds of millions, but we can agree, even if it's not pleasant, so 250 million from the state budget is wrong if I can expect European money, but it can't be compared even for a minute with 650 billion in seven or maybe nine years, if the rule of N+2 is really going to be less. And that's it. And I would like to hear, I would say, a more detailed explanation by the Minister, because she summed it up so much in the first performance, but she didn't focus on the question of what the threat was and that it was simply resolved - as if by backup or assurance that it could not be done otherwise. If the contract is valid and does not pay Brussels, then Prague must pay it. That's a perfectly normal procedure, isn't it? I don't know what the commission was meeting for and what it was negotiating for so long. I think that's standard. I'm not criticizing it. I am just saying this as the fact that it is quite common for all applicants, that there is a correction, where there will be ineligible expenditure and where, instead of European money, Czech money is eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u3	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now, with a point of fact, first Mr Fiedler, then Mr Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u4	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to respond to the fact that we are discussing this point here, which essentially threatened to have an extraordinary House meeting, so we have succeeded, or so the government coalition has come to its senses and has allowed this point to be discussed - but Minister Babiš is not here. I think this is very much about the Treasury, and as I look at it, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš is not here again. I do not know whether to take this the way it was when it was the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, that the members of the government coalition and, in particular, the ANO movement were gradually disappearing, they vanished into thin air from the Committee on Budgets, so in the end, the Committee on Budgets ended up sitting there with four opposition Members and no one else from the government coalition. So if Mr. Babiš wants to behave like this and this is how he goes to the House, I remind you again that the government answers to the House! And I call on the Vice Prime Minister to behave accordingly! Now, about why I wanted to make a point of fact. Here several times it was said that there were 21 audits, that they were all in order, and Minister Šlechtová mentioned in her speech, which I was interested in the fact that the audit that was carried out was to test the performance of the system and it was basically an audit that dealt with the business part. What, then, is the reason for this change? I'm just starting to wonder why an audit that was supposed to test performance, which I understand as functionality is going after this. Not that I want to contradict it or that it bothers me, but I find it strange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u5	I thank Mr Fiedler. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, now with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u6	Thank you. I just want to say to you, Mr Fiedler, that it doesn't just seem strange to him that it seems strange to anyone who looks at it just because the selection of auditors was given to be a performance audit. This means that they are all engineers of technicians - and then the audit dealt almost exclusively with legal issues. I have serious doubts about the expert erudition of the team that was assembled there for the purpose of the performance audit. [[12.00 hours]] But I wanted to enlist in the technical question that I didn't quite see from the speech of Minister Šlechtová whether she was behind the reservations that - I don't know how we all know. In other words, I would really, in addition to the fact that you assured us that the government acted responsibly and saved everyone's huge billions - we think it has spent hundreds of millions in vain, but that may be a matter of interpretation - so I would like a very clear answer, Madam Secretary, if you could give it to us. Do you consider the Ministry of Finance's audit on the monitoring system to be standard, professional and qualified, or not? All I need is a yes or a no, but if you're gonna elaborate, I'd rather.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u7	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now, with a factual point before I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u8	Thank you for the floor. I also wanted to tell Mr Fiedler not to be surprised. And I'm gonna tell him one story that happened when the audit board was formed at the Treasury, so those auditors were moving from the sphere of the financial authorities or the financial directorate, which I don't know exactly right now. But we had a member there who lost his job because the Ministry of Finance wasn't interested in him despite his high qualifications because he was on a candidate for the City Council for the TOP 09. He was told that as a reason why the Treasury isn't interested in him. So, of course, all we can speculate about is what the audit authority was made up of and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u9	I thank Mr Heger. Next time, I ask Mr Fiedler's stories only through me. Now, please, Madam Secretary, who applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer the question through Mr President Mr Kalousek. The Ministry of Regional Development insists on our position, which I communicated in my press briefing. We insist on what we said in our complaint. We insist that we consider the audit to be unprofessional, insist that there are errors. I can tell you here at least one mistake that I personally find inappropriate. If the Deputy Minister of Finance and Deputy Minister of Regional Development agree on a deadline when they will settle our 20-page or 40-page response to the 23 findings of the audit authority, the Deputy Minister will come and be torn into her hands by the final audit report without debate, I personally consider this to be a serious error. This was not to be sent to Brussels. We didn't have a chance to influence it. I think that's a big mistake. If that's enough for you, through Mr President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u11	The rapporteur, Mr Adam, will now speak. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u12	Hello. I will finally use the presence of the Minister of Finance, who has been absent until now. I didn't actually hear a single answer from his statement to the questions that we were asking here at the very beginning. Is the monitoring system really overpriced? That's what the Treasury says. Is it or isn't it? Has there been a fraud and a cartel agreement, as he claims? Was the audit professional? It's hard to say. Now we've learned that the audit was more of a technical nature, so I have another question. Minister through Mr President, is it true that the audit itself was carried out by a company that failed in the tender for the delivery of the monitoring system itself? Is that true? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u13	Thank you. Mr Zahradník is now duly entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return our negotiations to reality for a moment from the problem of what pains and problems a monitoring system is born, which is actually a dispute between two coalition ministers. I would like to return our negotiations, or at least in my few words that I have prepared, to what awaits our public, what awaits the surroundings, those who are waiting for the European funds to be drawn and presented. This period is called 2014 to 2020 - and is already almost half of 2015 and still nothing is happening. The first drawdown, as we can count, can occur sometime at the beginning of 2016. So we'll be two years late. We've already started that. This system, which we are now so dramaticly describing, must be primarily predictable and must also give predictable outputs so that it does not happen that the project that someone has submitted has been approved, implemented, paid, checked, so that after a few years the controllers return to it again and the project promoters are bullied by various sanctions and corrections. In addition to the large applicants, there will also be a number of small applicants, municipalities, regions and small entrepreneurs and non-profit organizations who apply for the money. We are also thinking about all of these, and let us really hurry to get the European funds started as soon as possible. The subcommittee on the European Funds and cross-border cooperation of the European Committee is aware of this circumstance, seeking to make the most of the contribution to the matter. For next week, on 7 May at 10 o'clock, we have prepared a round table in cooperation with the Ministry. The Minister has promised to participate in this. Representatives of the governing bodies of the various ministries will participate. When we were preparing the round table, we didn't know under what dramatic circumstances it would take place. But hopefully it will help calm the situation. In addition, we have also invited representatives of the public, the Association of Regions, the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, the Association of Local Authorities, the network of local action groups, representatives of both economic, agricultural and industrial chambers will also be there. I hope that there will be space in the defined time around 10 to 13 o'clock to clarify these things as far as possible and to contribute to the implementation of the funds as soon as possible. All of you, colleagues and colleagues, are cordially invited to this round table. Like I said, May 7th at 10 o'clock. It'll be in the big room number 205 at House Street No. 1. I look forward to your participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u15	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First, my Member, Mrs Němcová, second, Mr Benešík. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use my point of order to ask a question. I was inspired by Minister Šlechtová by replying unambiguously to the question raised here from Mr Kalousek's mouth. She said she was 100% behind what she announced at the press conference of the parties to her opinion on the Ministry of Finance audit. She has reservations about how this audit took place and about what she herself was exposed to as Minister for Regional Development. So I want to ask the other party, I want to ask the finance minister if he's behind the audit that his ministry has done because I've been following his various statements. First, he distanced himself from this audit with the fact that he had no influence on it. Later, he stood up for him to question him again, and now he says there is no conflict. So I would like an as open answer as provided by Minister Šlechtová, from Minister Babiš, to ask if he is behind the work of his minister, for the work of Deputy Minister Wagenknecht, for the team that carried out the audit. [[Deputy Minister]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u17	Thank you, Madame, for your point of view. Mr Ondřej Benešík and Mr Babiš, Vice Prime Minister, are now in the order of Mr Ondřej Benešek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Just a short notic for what my colleague Zahradník said. I hope the roundtable will be abundant. When preparing this round table, I cannot really get rid of the impression as a municipal and regional policy that European funding was too much considered a policy in the Czech Republic. I really felt that the worse, the better for some. All the more so, I am more pleased that there are politicians, and perhaps not surprisingly, from the local and regional sphere, who see this as a national interest. Benešík - lidovec, Zahradník - ODS, Černoch - úsvit. I just believe that we will manage to minimize the damage, at least minimise the damage that has arisen historically here, and that European funding will be seen more as the national interest of everyone than as a policy, where often really, as I have said, the worse it means for some the better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u19	Thank you. I will now ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry that most of the people who performed here don't listen to me. I'd read it again. If you could listen now, I'd read it to you. Because I made it clear in the performance that it wasn't the Treasury and MMR dispute. It is not an audit by the Ministry of Finance, but it is an audit under the authority of the European Commission. What are you doing here, especially Mr. Kalousek? You're threatening the 650 billion.! [[Response to the right.]] You're threatening them because in the past, Mr. Kalousek's audit authority, he was probably directing him to cover all sorts of corruption issues in the drawing of funds. And then what happened? Then the European Commission stopped pumping us. So remember, she stopped us. And why did she stop us? Because the audit authority was under political influence, and it is the money of the European Union. Not ours. So I'll read it to you again. I would like to say that the Ministry of Finance and therefore I, as the Minister of Finance, am not entitled to intervene in the performance of the audit authority. In order to maintain this independence, it is not possible for me to carry out an assessment that would result in a change in the outcome of the preliminary audit. Or did you want me to intervene? This is an independent audit, even the auditor is independent. Wagenknecht wasn't even the auditor. It's under there. But the auditor did it himself, and he gave it to me on Friday 10. 4th at 3:16 p.m., and my assistant brought it up to 13. 4. I didn't even have the audit! I can't even interfere! Again, it's a lie, it's not a dispute between the Ministry of Finance and the MMR. You have a dispute with the European Commission. I'm warning you, you're endangering the use of funds with your comments. You're saying that the audit authority that commissioned the European Commission to look after the European Commission's money, you're saying that I should evaluate it? I'm not gonna judge, because I have no right. So once again, I would like you not to call on me to comment on that, because I will not comment on that. At the same time, I state that the assessment of the case will take place following the activities of the competent authority of the Financial Administration, which is also independent, possibly by law enforcement authorities. Any non-standard intervention by my person as Minister of Finance in audit reports, or efforts to re-evaluate them, would very likely be seen as political interference with the independence of the audit. And we've already had that. We had an audit at the hospital, the minister and the director were doing a press conference, and immediately they called from Brussels. Go ahead. But you're threatening Brussels' money. We don't! The monitoring system, yes, I don't know if it was tinkled or not tinkled. That's what the police have to say if it's been jingled. If it was jingled, it was a few weeks before Nečasův' government fell. We got it, and today, the audit authority has the confidence of the European Commission, unlike the audit authorities that were there before and from which the cessation of the funds was withdrawn. Then remember what happened. So I fundamentally reject and repeat, it's not the Ministry of Finance's sport and MMR's. It is an audit authority from the European Commission's order, checks the European Commission's money, MMR has made reservations and the European Commission will assess it. I have an appointment with the Commissioner on 11 May. I will consult with her and then it will be between the MMR and the Financial Administration, which is independent, and there will decide whether it will be possible from our money or whether we will be able to save the money in negotiations with the European Commission. So that's the truth. And don't say that I, as minister, had anything to do with it. I had nothing to do with it. I got the audit. The auditor does not have an obligation to inform me and falls and is accountable to the European Commission. You are here in a dispute between the European Commission and the Czech Republic, and therefore you are threatening, threatening and saying to the European Commission... You're telling me I should have stepped in? That I was supposed to influence the audit? You can't be serious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u21	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points. First President Kalousek, after him President Fiala. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Through you, Minister Babiš. Minister, now you're not just making fun of us, but making fun of the whole public with what you said. The Audit Authority shall be set up at the Ministry of Finance on 1 January 2014. 1. 2013 on the basis of the law that I have passed, I have. Until then, the audit authorities were in operational programmes and he was not in the Ministry of Finance. First of all. Secondly, I wrote the law, a lot of us approved it here, so we know who the audit authority is subordinate to and who it answers to. Yes, the methodological audit authority must follow the methodology of the European Commission, which sends audits. If, however, people are morally, ethically, and professionally high, whether or not they actually comply with these standards, whether or not they behave the way they should, you are responsible for this, because the Ministry is a Monocratic authority, and you are in charge of it! To try now to tell the Chamber of Deputies that the audit authority at the Ministry of Finance is the spirit of God, floating above the waters that are not subordinate to his minister, you are really joking! You're wrong. [[He speaks very strongly.]] You are responsible for the fact that the audit was done in cooperation with a company that failed in the tender. You are responsible for how the audit authority has dealt with or failed to deal with comments from the Ministry of Regional Development. You are responsible for the way the audit committee was drawn up because it was made up exclusively of the people you dragged in in 2014 and whose moral and professional level I dare to have my opinion on as the majority of the officials you have pulled on the Ministry of Finance in the last year! But the responsibility is yours and stop pointing things at the European Union! You're being cowardly, Minister!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u23	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Fiala, followed by President Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that Minister Babiš listened carefully not only to this Chamber of Deputies but also to the public. Some time ago, his deputy questioned the PRIBOR rate - it wasn't his fault. Now it's not his deputy's fault for the audit authority's actions - and who's to blame? It is the right-wing opposition, which has not been in the government for two years, which together has some 40 Members, but we are guilty that Sobotkův's government cannot prepare everything so that we can draw European funds. This is an absolute outrage! I'm sorry, but that's an outrage that just can't get away with, Mr. Secretary. [[12.20 hours]] Let me make one more comment. Mr Benešík here said very well that drawing European funds is a national interest. And that's just the truth. We have the money at our disposal, it's allocated to us, and we have to try our best to drain it. But if anyone here thinks that it's in the interests of Brussels and the European Commission that we're really exhausted, they're terribly wrong. The interest of the European Commission is, of course, not to exceed a part of them. If we make any mistakes, there'll be auto-corrections, there'll be a reduction in the amount, and it's logical. And we all have to work together to get the most out of this money. But Sobotkův's government, and don't be mad at me, the people who are there for the YES movement are now threatening to draw on the funds and giving Brusel the tool to not really give us as much money as possible. Mr. Finance Minister, this is your responsibility. Prime Minister, it is your government's responsibility and you will not get out of it by pointing to the past and pointing to the 40 Members who are creating today's opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u25	Thank you. Now, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u26	I've learned, I say it well, that the Minister of Finance is not actually responsible for what's going on in his ministry. That audit unit belongs or doesn't it belong to the Treasury? Is he in the organizational structure or isn't he? Is it run by Deputy Wagenknecht or some Brussels Eurocrat? I think we all know the answers. It is part of the Ministry of Finance, they are officials who pay the Czech state and are subject to Deputy Minister Wagenknechta. But I want to stand up for the secretary and say that what she described about settlement is quite different from what Deputy Wagenknecht said on the budget committee, when he said that the MMR provided twice the time against legal obligations. It's completely different, and the problem repeats itself. And I'm asking the government and the Prime Minister to make peace with the Deputys. The Ministry is run by ministers, not deputy ministers. We have a deputy in charge here, a member of social democracy whose statements must be ironed by Prime Minister Sobotka in Washington. And what happened? Nothing. He's still there. We have a deputy here, as it happens, a Social Democrat who tells and writes to the Czech National Bank that we have a fraudulent PRIBOR here. What's gonna happen? It's nothing again. It's back there. Now here we have Deputy Wagenknecht, who will not allow his MMR colleague to make a proper settlement of comments. He writes, stands up for it, criminalizes the actions of many government officials. I mean, many governments at MMR. And what happens? Nothing! So, Prime Minister, ministers, make peace with the Deputys! The Ministers decide, not the Deputys! I think it's an unprecedented practice. This is not possible for the deputy to criticize or go against the minister of the same government. I can't imagine how that's possible. And it doesn't matter if the ministers are on either side or on the coalition side. Imagine this - but I see a lot of faces here that were in the city council or the county council. You can imagine the head of the department going to the council and saying, well, the deputy, that's totally unprofessional, what he's doing. Or this deputy here is gonna write for the deputy who has the finances, so the head of the department will say, but the deputy is gonna chair the city, the county, that's some kind of fraudulent act. We'd fall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u27	I'm sorry, your time, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u28	I'd really like to get these deputies straightened out. That's really not possible. Our partners in the opposition coalition debate are ministers! I don't want to argue with the Deputys. I want to debate and lead arguments and factual arguments with ministers, not with deputy ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u29	Thank you. I am now registering two proper applications for the debate. The first is Mr Laudát and then Mr Černoch. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe now we'll just wait for Wagenknecht to call off Babiš while I'm listening. [[Let's hear it.]] This is a completely absurd situation. I don't know what. When I listen to this, the secretary called a press conference, said what she said, repeated the main things today. We have heard a formal statement from the Vice Prime Minister. And it would be funny if it wasn't 560 or how many billions. I'd just like to clarify what it's all about, and it's a shame... One more thing, a little comment. You must remember when, in the beginnings of this government, the Minister and Wagenknecht called a bombing press conference, where Wagenknecht said he found 16 billion-dollar robberies at individual ministries. So maybe you could tell me why you were commenting on the audit back then. You said some things about it, and where the 16 billion today are found, or how many hundreds of officials and politicians are sitting down. However, I will ask purely technically. Some media information said that a draft had gone to Brussels. They're talking about audit today. That means, I would ask, I don't know, the Minister doesn't answer often, so perhaps the Minister, even though it should be answered by Vice Prime Minister Babiš, who went there. Whether there was a properly signed audit or a draft, because I know from Wagenknecht's previous work that he was basically writing drafts that the journalists provided me to see what was there about the people involved. They didn't have it at their disposal. For the next one. There is a fundamental contradiction, and I am just repeating it here, between what the Minister says she didn't stand a chance, or the MMR simply didn't have a chance to get a response to its comments, while Mr Wagenknecht claims that they had enough time to take this into account. So what's the truth? I'm not talking about criminalization. I don't know why they're still hanging in the air, who sent it to the police when the same thing happened in the previous places. It is still unclear to me, of course it will now be a great mantra, that police investigations are underway, therefore data cannot be provided, but perhaps the public and the Members have the right to know what the basic key things are, why the tender or the contract was badly broken, we have the right to know, and if any law firms are already dealing with it today to respond, now I don't know whether an audit or draft audit, because I know that the previous documents by the brilliant deputy have been drafted by lawyers from all sides as unsubstantiated. So if the Minister or the Vice Prime Minister can answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr Černoch, duly signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u32	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I confess that as Minister Babiš was pointing to the right and thundering that it was our fault, he was looking at me the whole time, so I wondered if I had done something wrong. But it's not my fault. The fact that what my colleague Mr. Benešík said is absolutely true. The European subsidies, the European money is a national interest without any policy, or at least that should be the case. And here's the question, if I may ask for a direct answer, either to Minister Babiš or to Minister Šlechtová. It's almost half a billion crowns. Half a billion crowns is a huge amount of money to be bought for, and that money will have to be replaced or paid in some way. Someone has to pay for it, and someone is responsible for it. So if it's possible to say who's really responsible for this, and not say it's this deputy, that auditor over there, or just somebody else in Brussels. If I could ask for a direct and clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, I do not see anyone registered for the general debate. So I'm asking if that's the case. Mr Koubek, with priority rights, then the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I won't delay, but if I listen to the Minister of Finance tell us that the Ministry of Finance doesn't manage, now these two ministries are tossing these hot potatoes individually, this responsibility, then maybe I'm not the only one in this room who remembered the pre-election password of the ANO movement that said, "We're capable of a nation, we're just being run by a klutz. Minister, you're right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u35	Thank you. Now, with the Prime Minister's priority right, I will ask her to speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will now respond, through Mr President, to Mr Laudát, who asks what was actually sent to Brussels. Thus, the audit, which - it is written at least that it was requested by the European Commission, is to be an audit of performance for the programme period 2013 to 2020, 2007 to 2020. What we have now received, we have received the first draft 19. Three, the day the anti-corruption police came to our house. This draft - we had 10 days to comment on it. That's what we said, that's our reaction. The truth is, the audit authority gave us more time for this first draft, but we didn't need it, because we settled it on time, in those 10 days, that's for sure. But we wanted a debate before the final report was finished, and we didn't get it. So the final audit report for the 2014 to 2020 programming period went to Brussels. I received letters yesterday or the day before yesterday from the audit authority to 9 other projects for control by the audit authority to the monitoring system, where 6 of them relate to the period 2007 to 2013, the remaining 3 relate again to 2014 to 2020. However, I am counting on the fact that even the final audit sent to the Commission is simply considered really final. So to divide the two parts, even the period when we got a few extra days, we didn't need to use them, but we didn't get them at the final report. I would really like to confirm the words of Minister Babiš here. It's not a dispute between our ministries. It's a dispute when you look at it, and I think that many of you who are mayors or you were captains are the beneficiary's dispute with the audit authority. We all have, or most of you, or some of your friends, or your precincts have experience of not being called to the opinion of the audit authority. The MMR is in that situation right now. If this was some small project and we didn't find such serious errors in the audit report, we wouldn't be writing the complaint. But since it's a monitoring system, and if it doesn't, it won't be the 650 billion, and here I'm answering why I organized the press briefing. Because I felt obliged to inform citizens immediately that, by receiving the final audit report, the end of funding from European sources towards the monitoring system was the end. And I, as a proper caretaker, as the statutory body of the Ministry of Regional Development, must act under the State Property Act. So not to increase the state deficit, inform the government about it, and the government has given me a mandate to continue with it - from the state budget. I repeat once again that the state will not pay the CZK 252 million, which is a calculated correction by the audit authority. The financial authority and, above all, the European Commission have the final say on what will be calculated. Therefore, what has been sent to the Commission is the final audit report for 2014 to 2020. However, I have received further requests from the audit authority to provide supporting documents for the period 2014 to 2020, so we will see what else we will get. However, I would really like to mention that the responsibility or the culprit must be determined by the anti-corruption police. Anti-corruption police are very often at the Ministry of Regional Development. I've secured maximum cooperation, interaction of all relevant persons. I guess we all suspect that this is not a pleasant situation at all, because colleagues from the Anti-Corruption Police are really going back a few years, even to employees who are no longer at the Ministry of Regional Development. However, we, I and the ANO movement, and the government, must face it. It happened, it did, the audit found fault. I will name them here only briefly, through Mr President, both towards Mr Černoch and Mr Laudát. The errors are really serious in the fact that the audit primarily calls into question the first contract, the one of which in 2012, where it gives 100% correction to the cartel agreement, to the so-called bid rigging, that is, the overlap of the offer, the criminal liability of the offers, etc. I would like to mention here that there is one thing in the media. In the media it appears that we, or MMR at that time, received two offers in 2012. That's not true! We've received seven offers. Seven bids for the acquisition of a monitoring system. Seven! These were evaluated and based on the evaluation committee it was won by the existing company, the existing supplier. So these are the key errors that actually say the audit outputs. Of course, there is also a flaw in the fact that the audit authority says that some parts of the contracts are overpriced. But this must be evaluated by the Financial Authority and subsequently by the European Commission. I can't say who's the culprit. Even Minister Babiš can't say that. The audit authority gave his report, he gave it to the final one, it's on its own now. I, too, have to fulfil certain obligations, which means to initiate the UOHS, inform the Financial Authority and inform all other institutions that the monitoring system is conducted as an irregularity. So once again, the government was acting as responsible as possible when it approved on Monday and gave me the mandate to continue with that particular company to the agreed part that we now have. If that didn't happen, we don't have a monitoring system because I don't have a supplier, we can't do it on our own right now, and the contract is valid. So we could get our arbitration going, too. So I guess that's it for me. I would still like to say to Mr - through the President, Mr Černoch. European subsidies are the maximum national interest for the 2014 to 2020 programming period, with basically 55 per cent of public budgets being subsidies from the European Union. Lots of parks, science parks, roads, anything. If the system stops, based on the fact that I just can't go on with the supplier, there's no first challenges. There's nothing to put in there. And now we're so far away that the first challenges should be within the month. At least from OP PIK, which is already approved. And that is very pleasant news for us. So I would just like to say that the 650 billion is not at risk because it is precisely because our government has responsiblely decided that it gives me a mandate to act as a proper caretaker and can continue since we received the audit, to continue with the same supplier until, of course, it is explained. However, the European Commission has the last word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u37	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Kalousek is here. No one else in the general debate - general - I do not register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u38	Thank you. Very briefly. I understand the Minister as a loyal minister for the ANO movement that she must reject the idea that this is a dispute between the ministries, that it is a dispute between the Ministry of Regional Development and the audit authority. But please, nicely, the audit authority is part of what ministry? And who's gonna appoint the head of the audit unit? And who is responsible for the quality of the audit authority's work? Of course, the one who runs the relevant ministry, which is the Minister of Finance. Please do not try to tell the public that the audit authority is accountable to the European Commission. Yes, he is responsible in terms of methodology, but for the professionalism of work, for the quality of those people, for what he does, the Minister of Finance is politically responsible, which should be managed by the entire ministry, which includes the audit authority as well as all other ministries. The Minister of Finance has political responsibility, as you, Madam Secretary, have political responsibility for the MMR. It can't be a cross. It can only be that the House calls to the responsibility of the relevant ministers, and this is the Minister of Finance, who tries to cowardly remove himself from his responsibility and claims to the public that his subordinate service is accountable to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u39	Thank you. I don't see anyone registered to the general debate. I wonder if that's the case. That is the case, in which case I am ending the general debate. I wonder if you want to take the final words before I open a detailed debate. It's not like that. In that case, we will proceed to a detailed debate and I ask who is reporting for a detailed debate in order to make a possible resolution. So, Mr. Rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u40	Hello, for the last time. I want to thank for the fruitful debate that has stirred up on this subject, which has often not been as much a dialogue as a repeated monologue of the same. However, given that we have not learned the answers to many questions, I would like to propose the following resolution, so that we move this debate somewhere else after all. Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. asks Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka to investigate within 30 days the liability for the possible damage of hundreds of millions of crowns in the case of the monitoring system of European funds and inform Parliament of the outcome of this investigation; II. asks the Supreme Audit Office to verify the audit carried out by the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic especially against the objections raised by the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u41	I thank you and ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. No one at this moment... Madam Secretary, I'm sorry. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Since the entire case is being handled by the anti-corruption police, even the Prime Minister can't investigate responsibility for this matter. We can't even provide all the data from our departments because it's in the hands of the anti-corruption police, so I'm here - sorry - objecting to the first resolution just because we're unable to provide all the data to the Prime Minister because the anti-corruption police are handling it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u43	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur - he prefers President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u44	Maybe there's a misunderstanding in the environment we're in. Of course, it is not the Prime Minister's responsibility and responsibility in the concept of criminal law, and no one wants him to investigate. We are talking exclusively about political responsibility. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister to establish political responsibility for these situations, even without some of the data, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u45	Thank you. Mrs Němcová, duly signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u46	Thank you. I would also like to add the motion for a resolution on a point relating to the functioning of the Ministry of Finance directly to the person of the Minister of Finance. The point would be as follows: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš to assess and comment on the procedure of his deputy, now I do not know, forgive, first name, Mr Wagenknecht on the matter of commenting audit... balancing comments on the audit with the Ministry of Regional Development. That's what it would sound like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-004-140.u47	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, in which case, I am ending the debate in detail. I ask whether the rapporteur or the Minister would like to take the final words. I'm here before I give you the final words, I mean, at 12.45, we've got a tight vote, which means I'm gonna ask you two things. I would interrupt that point, we would go through the polls, we would do your final words, and then we would vote on the motion for a resolution. In this way, I would continue with the fact that if I have good information, it was agreed that the Chamber of Deputies' meeting would be extended by 15 minutes until 13:00... that means from 12.45 what takes time, i.e. polling points, so that would prolong the negotiations. I therefore thank the Minister, the rapporteur, for interrupting this point for the duration of the voting points, which we have firmly placed at 12.45 hours. Opening point number
