ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u1	206. Oral inhalation They are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the ranking of the Members in which they will speak and submit oral interpelations first to the Prime Minister, from 14.30 to 16 hours, and to other members of the Government from 16 to 18 hours. The lists have been distributed to you in the benches. Before I say the first word, I'll read the apologies quickly. Minister Mládek apologizes, Minister Němeček apologizes, Minister Chovanec apologizes, everyone until the end of the day. He also apologizes to Mr Farský from 2:30 to 3:30. The Minister of Defence apologizes from 12.30 to 14, that's what happened. Mr Heger apologizes, 22nd and 23nd. 10th for business reasons. Mr Holeček apologizes between 12 and 18 o'clock, Mr Urban from 2:30 to the end of the day. Minister of the Environment from 16.45 pm, Mr Gabal from 14.30 pm, Mr Zlatuška from 12 to 18 and Mr Votava from 16 to the end of the negotiations. So many apologies, and I beg Mr Ladislav Velebný, who was drawn as number 1. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, a major priority for the government coalition is, among other things, the fight against corruption. One of the main measures is the new law on public procurement. So, Prime Minister, I ask what this law will bring. What will it mean for contracting entities with thousands at the level of cities and municipalities? My concern is that the upcoming law on public procurement is well prepared and the contracting authorities clearly know how to proceed. What's allowed and what's forbidden procedure. I believe that the new rules will be known well in advance so that contracting entities have a chance to prepare for them. So, Prime Minister, I ask how the government prepared for this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u3	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u4	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members. I am pleased that we can meet again in this hall during an interview with the Prime Minister, and I thank all the Members who have arrived in the hall. There aren't many of us, that's what I feel from the sound of the voice and the sound of the microphone. Let me make a few comments on Mr Velebný's interpellation. It's absolutely a key thing. New Public Procurement Act. I am very pleased to inform you that the government has fulfilled one of its main priorities, which is the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, on 5 October this year. The new law, after several years of clarity and eases procurement, which, I firmly believe, will move investment and promote economic growth and employment in our country, which is, as I said here, when we discussed the draft state budget law, the key priority of our government. The contracting authority will be able to exclude a supplier who has not proven himself before. To set yourself an extremely low price or to check only the most advantageous offer. Nor will it have to exclude the most favourable offer due to formalities. Under the new rules, it will also be possible to use a simplified scheme for social service contracts. So let me mention the main benefits of the new legislation prepared by the government. The draft law is based on three newly adopted European directives, reflecting modern European trends in public procurement. It should include simplification of the procurement process, shortening the time limits for the award of the contract, reducing the administrative burden on contracting entities and suppliers, greater flexibility of the contracting authority, a wider range of evaluation criteria, new reasons for excluding the tenderer, as I have already mentioned, for example, if he has failed or committed serious professional misconduct in the previous contract. Possibility of establishing a formula for identifying an extremely low bidding price. Maintaining the national regulation of simplified subliminal procedure. The current limits for the compulsory procedure of the law regime remain in this proposal submitted by the Government, i.e. $2 million in services and supplies, $6 million in construction work. And the new regulation will also be accompanied by a broad methodical activity by the Ministry of Regional Development, which will, of course, be absolutely necessary. With regard to even more detailed information relating to this draft law. This law is crucial for further drawing on European subsidies, but I am convinced that it also cultivates and simplifies public procurement. The Authority will continue to review all contracts co-financed by the European Funds. Public procurement winners will have to prove their own structure. That's what I want to point out. This is a matter that is new and that is dealt with in a completely legislative way in this proposal. We are thus fulfilling one of our government coalition's obligations that we want to expose those who receive money on the basis of public procurement. The limit of the additional contract will be maintained at the current level of 30 per cent. So that's where we follow up on existing legislation. The law provides the contracting authorities with a number of options to achieve quality performance of the contract. The purpose of the proposed law, as I have already said, is to simplify the award of contracts, and we are thinking, in particular, of those contracting authorities that come from smaller entities, such as smaller municipalities. I could, of course, continue here and further describe the parameters of this law, but I suppose we'll have time to talk about it here at the House. I would like to ask for his support, and I would just like to mention that we are assuming that the law will be presented for first reading now even during the autumn. We are counting on the fact that the law could take effect in the context of a specified transposition deadline. This is set at April 2016, so the government will try to make the effective date as close as possible to this transposition period. But here it will be very much dependent also on the pace of the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u5	Thank you. I will ask the Member if he wishes to ask an additional question. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u6	I thank the Prime Minister very much for telling us personally here that this is a clear, understandable and understandable standard. But I still have to ask. Common in Europe is one thing, and that is 50 percent more work. You just said there'd only be 30 percent more work. So, Prime Minister, I want to ask why there's been a change at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u7	Yes. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u8	Thank you. The European Directive sets an upper limit. The upper limit is 50 per cent, that is, if we are to have rules in line with what European rules lay down, then we should not be above 50 per cent. In fact, the petitioner, meaning the Ministry of Regional Development, proposed to the government that we stick to the upper limit of European rules, but after the discussion at the government's meeting, the government finally decided that we would remain at the level set in the current legislation. As you probably know, to the 30 percent limit, it's increased compared to what's been going on in the past. We got to that limit as part of an amendment to the law. It was a so-called technical amendment to the Public Procurement Act. That is when Parliament finally agreed to increase the limit to 30%, and the government considers it sufficient. I believe that in the future we could also move towards an increase in this limit, but I say intentionally in the future because, in my view, there is a need for further insurance in our legal order. I'd rather we get some more insurance. All problems cannot be solved by the Procurement Act. I don't think we can ask him to do this, but it's important that there are other rules here that ensure transparency in the public sector, and if all these rules apply, then I think we can afford a higher limit in the future. At present, I would argue that Parliament should remain at the level set by the government, but naturally I am prepared to respect Parliament's will on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u9	Thank you. We'll continue with the next interpellation. It is Mrs Jitka Chalánková's interpellation on the Christian family in Erbil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u10	Hello, Mr. Prime Minister, dear colleagues. I would like to introduce you and my colleagues to trying to save the lives of 152 Iraqi Christian families. Most of them have been in a refugee camp in Iraqi Erbil for many months now, in the territory controlled by the Kurds. These people are living in terrible conditions and are basically waiting to die. I support the Generation 21 project, which received both the support of the Czech Bishops' Conference and the Ecumenical Council of Churches. They have dealt with the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior many times and provided the required data, and many have expressed their support. Those days, riots broke out in Erbil, and another round of genocide threatens Christians. The situation already terrifying can change to worse in the order of days. So they cry out for help in the hope that these people will eventually be saved. We remind you that we have secured accommodation for these people and the promise of financial reimbursement of their air transport to the Czech Republic and we also have the means and offers of activities necessary to integrate these people into our company, writes the Foundation Fund Generation 21. We fear that the only reason not to accept these people is because they will not be counted against the quotas agreed by the European Union. We don't consider it a reason not to try to save these people's lives. And here's another point. We make a point, says the foundation fund that it's not true that none of these people want to come to us. These people want to join us. These are people, of whom at least a third have higher vocational education. We note that it is not true that churches do nothing. The churches are ready to receive these people. We ask you to help us save these people. I also add that at the meeting at the Ministry of Interior on 19. 10. this issue has also been discussed and I have some positive information from this morning, so I want to ask what further steps the government is going to take towards these aid seekers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u11	Thank you. Before the Prime Minister comes forward, I will apologize to Mr Šrámek from today's meeting. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u12	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for highlighting this problem, respectively. This request, which here objectively exists. I want to confirm that the government has been informed of this issue. I want to confirm that this request is notified to the Home Office. The Ministry of the Interior carries out negotiations that relate to clarifying the status of these people in the situation if they were offered the possibility of staying in the Czech Republic. I am convinced that the situation in the Middle East region is very complicated. I'm afraid there's no simple quick recipe for solving the Middle East crisis. In fact, in a situation where only as far as the war in Syria is concerned, it is 10,5 miles in motion. The Syřan and these people are either displaced inside Syria, or they are in Turkey, or they are in Lebanon, or they are in Jordan. Then we have 2 miles. refugees from Afghanistan, mostly in Iran, and we have 3 miles. people who run inside Iraq from the Islamic State, from the fight related to the Islamic State. There are currently 15 miles in the Middle East region. People on the run. We have asked the state administration to draw up a map for government officials regarding the situation of refugee camps, the number and deployment of refugee camps and the number of people in the Middle East today in refugee camps. There are dozens of refugee camps. There are hundreds of thousands to millions of people in those refugee camps. There are no exceptions to refugee camps where several tens of thousands of people are concentrated in one place under provisional conditions. So I understand that, especially when it comes to restoring fighting or intensifying fighting in some areas, there is increasing pressure for these people to get into a safe area. Of course, they see Europe as a safe area. Madam, I want to promise one thing. I have dealt with this issue very intensively in recent days with the Minister of the Interior, because those people you spoke about who have turned to us through the Generation 21 Foundation fund, namely 152 refugees, so these people have the status of internally displaced persons. This means that we have turned to the European Commission and also to the DHL with a request for an opinion on the status of these persons. At the moment when their status is confirmed, I will want the ministers involved in this matter to present this matter to the government for a decision and that the government should comment on this issue regardless of whether or not these people can be counted into the so-called quotas within the European Union. I think the request is very urgent. The situation of these people is not simple, or I understand that there is increasing pressure on the Czech state to make a decision, and the government will have to assess all aspects, including that aspect, that if we decide to help these people, this does not necessarily mean that they will be counted into the quotas to be implemented by the Czech Republic as part of the so-called relocation of people from the Middle East region to the Czech Republic. In addition, I think that we also need to consider the aspect of the quotas, the aspect of humanity, the aspect of solidarity, the aspect of a particular threat to these people, who have specifically turned to the Czech Republic. So I want to promise you that the government will deal with this, and I will want the ministers concerned to bring this matter to the government in a short period of time for a decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u13	Thank you. A follow-up question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u14	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for this answer. You basically beat me to it because that's what I wanted to ask so these people wouldn't have to be counted into those quotas, so given the time and the responsibilities we have for them, or the situation they're in, thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u15	The Prime Minister does not want to speak. The third question is Mr Fiala, and this is the matter of the budget in education. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u16	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, in the context of the budget discussion, you and the Minister of Finance have repeatedly stressed that education, research and development expenditure is not falling, on the contrary, rising, and that somehow you do not understand what we are constantly asking. I feel that we do not really understand each other on this issue, because expenditures are actually falling in many ways according to all the comparable indicators that go into these very areas for the future of important areas. Our concerns are not limited to investment in R&D, which decline to 0.77% relative to GDP, while for governments in which ODS was involved, they were around 1% somewhere. But what we are really worried about is spending in the field of universities, and that's what my question is about. I know that on Tuesday, at least if I am well informed, a meeting took place with some of the presidents, but I don't think it was possible to explain why universities are not only being added at the time of economic growth, but why they are being taken away, even a lot of money. It's down to 1.3 billion. CZK, if we compare the approved budget for 2015 with the proposed budget for 2016. [[14.50 hours]] You have literally stated on September 15 at Forum 2000: Education must be a priority, otherwise the state is gambling. I agree with that, but according to this budget, it seems that education, at least tertiary education, is in no way a priority for this government. So my question, Prime Minister, if I paraphrase your words, would be: Why are you gambling with the Czech Republic in this way?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u17	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u18	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, especially with regard to the budget of the Ministry of Education, the budget of the Ministry of Education is growing by CZK 4.4 billion year on year. When we compare expenditures in the resort this year and expenses in the next year, it is CZK 4.4 billion. So you certainly can't blame the government for cutting spending on education or trying to save money on education. There's no cuts, there's an increase in expenditure from the state budget. Regarding the question of where the funds go within the Ministry of Education Department. CZK 2.4 billion are going to raise salaries in regional education. As you know, we have decided that from 1 November this year we are increasing by 3 percent of the salaries of school workers whose salaries are governed by tariff tables. So they are not only pedagogical workers, but they are also other employees in our regional education. I'm talking about people who work in primary schools and who work in secondary education - 3.33 percent. Another 1.5 billion. CZK of this increase is due to an increase in regional education performance associated with an increase in the number of employees in regional education. As you know, honourable Member, through the President, as a result of an uneven population development, we are now experiencing a period when children who had been very strong in kindergarten school come to the first level of basic education. This also requires strengthening the number of posts at these primary schools at first level, and it will actually mean the need of some 3.9 thousand teachers who would start at first level or in kindergartens. That means we have to respond to population developments here, and we have to respond to what is happening in education today. If the government has been criticized for hiring too many new civil servants, then I must say that the vast majority of the new ones are potential new teachers, who will come to primary schools in particular. In fact, it is not wrong if we maintain the quality of education or improve it as a result of enough teachers. The next priority here is research, experimental development and innovation, where spending will be increased by CZK 1.3 billion next year. In addition to sports and physical education, approximately 500 million crowns will be spent next year. As far as universities are concerned, the real problem there is about CZK 1.2 billion. I met with Minister Valachová, the Bureau of the Czech Rectors' Conference. At this meeting, I was assured by the Minister of Education that she would still be able to address the deficit of around CZK 800 million this year. This means that measures are under way, which should reduce the deficit of CZK 1.2 billion by CZK 800 million, and for the spring of next year there will be a problem of approximately CZK 400 million. This means a year-on-year decline, which threatens to occur in 2016 for universities, is a total of CZK 400 million. And we're talking about a subsidy that's provided for operation without any specific determination, based on the number of students. The sum of CZK 400 million will be spent by the government, and I will support the Minister in this, so that during the first half of next year we will find funds, both by restructuring the expenditure of the Ministry of Education and by restructuring the expenditure of the state budget, and we will try to find as much of the 400 million crowns as possible during the first half of next year to strengthen the expenditure of higher education. I don't think there's a dispute between us here. I consider it important that it does not reduce the amount of funds provided for universities. If there is a drop in students, again in the context of fluctuations in demographic development, then the money should eventually be used by universities to improve the quality of education and improve the quality of teaching. So the ambition of the government is to ensure that universities have the same amount of funding next year as they have this year, but there will still be considerable efforts to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u19	Thank you. The Member shall have the opportunity to ask further questions. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u20	Prime Minister, of course, I agree with you on the explanation of why money needs to be increased to regional education. At the end of your long performance, I had a little answer to what was going to happen to higher education. I am glad that you will raise funds there by 400 million crowns, but I still do not understand why, at a time of economic growth, universities, which are important in terms of our future and in terms of development of research, development and innovation, are having such a dramatic decline. When we look at the numbers that you don't like to hear, and that's the share of gross domestic product, and I'm sorry, it counts everywhere in the world, and it's one of the key indicators, so the spending on higher education in 2013 was 0.53 percent, and what you're proposing for 2016 is 0.43 percent of GDP, and it's also a de facto decline. So you can't say that science, research, education are a priority for this government. Those numbers convince you that it's not a priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u21	Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u22	Thank you. I have not liked to quantify expenditure in relation to gross domestic product since I was Minister of Finance. And I'll tell you why. It is very tricky in terms of international comparison. There are countries that have a much higher rate of redistribution than the Czech Republic and are therefore able to provide much more funding from public sources. There are countries where companies pay a tax of 30 or 35 percent. In the Czech Republic companies pay 19 percent. There are countries west of us where the richest pay taxes of 40, 45 percent, or even 50 percent. In the Czech Republic it is about 20 percent. Just if you have less budget in relation to gross domestic product, logically you also have less ability to provide public resources in relation to GDP to finance such activities. In my view, what is much more objective is the share of expenditure in relation to the volume of the state budget. This is much more accurate, and it is not subject to the problems you have at a time when the economy is growing very rapidly, which is certainly a good card for our government that the economy is growing in our government, that unemployment is falling, that we have unemployment of 6%, but that when you use statistics the ratio of expenditure to gross domestic product, so logically, when your economy is growing, the numbers are getting worse. And if you don't increase taxes, you don't have the means to catch up on the growth in the economy. So this, in my view, is not an objective international comparison, the share of expenditure in relation to GDP, and a comparison of expenditure in relation to the volume of the state budget should be used. Because that is, the volume of redistribution that is different in each country in relation to GDP on the very basis of the tax rate applied there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u23	Thank you. The next will be Mr Holík, on the situation of the Čech in Volyne and in Podkarpatská Rusi. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, dear Prime Minister, on 31 August this year, the World Council of the Podkarpathian Russians turned to our parliamentary faction, the Party of Direct Democracy, in written form. It is an organization that represents, among other things, the former citizens of the Czechoslovak First Republic. In this document, he calls on all members of the Czech Republic to stand up for their former citizens who feel threatened by fascist paramilitary armed organizations worshipping Stepan Bandera, such as the Right Sector. These are the same concerns that the representatives of the Volyně Čech in Central Ukraine are quite rightly showing. In this matter, we immediately wrote a written request for comments on the Foreign Minister Mr Zaorálek. I am surprised to say that the previously promised support of our former citizens has not been understood. I quote: In general it can be said that the Ukrainian state does not support its minorities in any generous way, but neither does it prevent them from cultural or educational activities and association. End of quote. Dear Prime Minister, I don't know if we are talking to the representative of our government about the same Ukrainian state. I mean the state that declared Stepan Bandera its national hero. [[The President draws attention to the time when the Member may complete the sentence.]] Okay. Prime Minister, will we support our citizens and allow them to return, or will we continue to make promises?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u25	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u26	Thank you. Dear Member, first of all, the situation of national minorities in Ukraine. So I would like to introduce you to the basis that I have now received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this matter, and then I would specifically address the issue of the support of Czech compatriots in Ukraine and what else we can do for them. First thing. The representative offices in Ukraine monitor closely the respect for the rights of national minorities in Ukraine. The citizens of Ukraine have the right by law to choose their nationality freely without any support in documents. Recognition of nationality is not the competence of the state, but is a personal matter of every Ukrainian citizen. In general, it can therefore be said that the Ukrainian state does not support its minorities in any generous way, nor does it prevent them from their cultural and educational activities. In the case of a Russian minority, there is nothing unusual in the context of any deficit in respect of respect for their rights. Most Rusín live in the Svaljav district and then in the towns of Uzhhorod and Mukačevo. There are 17 Russian national cultural associations in Zakarpati. The largest organization of the Rusín is the National Council of the Rusíns Zakarpatí, which brings together about 90 percent of Russian associations. In Russian language, there are newspapers, books, about 27 evening schools. The Czech Republic has not yet had to take any diplomatic action to ensure the rights and security of the Russian minority in Ukraine. But the State Department is monitoring the overall situation in Zakarpatí, including the status of the Russian minority. I want to inform you that the Honorary Consulate of the Czech Republic was opened in the autumn of 2014. On that occasion, the region was visited by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic and met with Czech compatriots there, among other things. Depending on the possibilities of our diplomatic instruments, we will monitor the situation of the Russian minority. And now for Czech compatriots in Ukraine. As you know, funds were earmarked for 2015 to implement the relocation of compatriots. This year we have allocated CZK 66 million in the budget for this issue and we expect that the maximum number of people supported will be 250. These people will therefore be entitled, entitled and entitled during this year to accommodation, catering in the Ministry of Interior facility for six months, entitled to Czech teaching, help in finding employment and housing. This assistance was contracted by the Archdiocese charity Prague. They were entitled to one-off financial assistance of CZK 50,000 per adult and CZK 20,000 per child. This allowed us to launch a large-scale relocation operation to which the countrymen from Ukraine signed up. We put emphasis in the first phase of the resettlement event on the resettlement of countrymen from eastern regions of Ukraine, which were currently threatened by the ongoing war conflict, but we also gave the opportunity to interested parties from other parts of Ukraine, which are mainly crushing current economic problems. The program of relocation of compatriots is open to all interested people, for Czech compatriots, but the exclusive interest of our compatriots from Ukraine is currently registered. In the previous days, I asked the Minister of Interior Chovanec to prepare a report for the Government on the results of this year's resettlement programme, where we had prepared capacity of about 250 people and a large part of the capacity was really used this year. I myself had the opportunity to meet a part of the compatriots after they arrived in the Czech Republic, and I must say that they perceive this assistance from the Czech Republic very, very positively. I have asked the Interior Minister to prepare a proposal for further assistance in the resettlement of countrymen for 2016. I assume that the current capacities and financial resources available to us should allow us to relocate roughly 250 other Czech compatriots from Ukraine. The number of applicants is larger, which the Ministry of the Interior is currently really aware of, that is, we will not be able to satisfy all the candidates in 2016, but I suppose we could follow up on about 250 people this year with the same number in 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u27	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u28	Dear Prime Minister, I am sure you will agree with me that the concerns of the people of the Podkarpatian Russians are just as justified as the concerns in the east. Because there were armed conflicts in Mukachev. Dear Prime Minister, we are talking about helping immigrants from completely different religious countries. Let us prove that the descendants of our citizens, who also live abroad in harsh conditions, are not indifferent to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u29	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u30	Thank you. Dear Member, allow me, then, a brief response to your response to my response to your interpelation. So I can describe it exactly. We're helping the countrymen. This year, there were 66 million crowns in the budget specifically for the programme, which touched almost exclusively on our countrymen from Ukraine. I don't think it's a small amount of money, 250 people, I think, are a decent amount, and we want to continue this program. The programme, as I have already said, is open to all Czech compatriots who will meet certain conditions, and of course it concerns Ukraine and our compatriots from the Zakarpat region, if they are interested in participating in this programme. But I don't think it can be blamed on the government if this year, which was particularly dramatic in the first half when it came to events in the east of Ukraine, we took into account, in particular, requests from those areas that were really threatened by the war that took place in the east of Ukraine. So that's where we put the priority. The idea was to give resettlement to families in particular from war-threatening areas in the east of Ukraine, and I hope that we will succeed in continuing the programme next year. And if he's interested, he could continue in years to come. I think our countrymen from Ukraine, the descendants of the Čech who left there a hundred, two hundred years ago, so these people are very well integrated in our society. And I think that this is also a positive programme in which, in my opinion, the government that will come after the next parliamentary elections should continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u31	I also thank you and another will be Mrs Aulická Jírovcová on the decision on the limits at the ČSA mine. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u32	Well, thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I am interrogating you today on a new Government resolution to postpone the decision on territorial ecological limits at the Czechoslovak Army's Lower until 2019. In the basis of the government The solution to the further process of the ecological limits of brown coal mining in northern Bohemia are all the impacts and benefits of decisions for all four submitted variants. The basis is stated - I quote: "From the point of view of the state's social and economic, income and expenditure, the municipality's income is the most advantageous option of four, i.e. a full breach at the Bílina mine and at the ČSA mine. However, a serious problem is the issue of unsolving conflicts of interest and relocation of municipalities. On the contrary, this problem brings a considerable number of opportunities to increase business opportunities, as well as employment opportunities." Here I would just point out that the citizens of Černic and Horní Jiřetín have known since the 1970s that the move is due to coal mining. The question was only when and above all under what conditions for the citizens concerned. I would also like to remind you, Prime Minister, that breaking the limits at the ČSA mine was primarily supported by your party or your party colleagues. They stood on the mines in front of the miners and promised that if the party of the ČSSD got votes, the Army would be broken. Today you just confirmed that ČSSD in the Ústí Region has become one of the parties that only promise but does not keep promises. I think the voters will pay you back in the next election. I am really sad about this government's approach to citizens not only our region but also the whole Czech Republic. Put into risk, destabilize the energy network in the Czech Republic will prepare by this decision the planned disposal of central heat supply, for example due to the intolerable increase in prices for final consumers by up to 30 percent, and address the social impact after your decision does not, in my opinion, make the government responsible for its citizens. And let me just point out that all the risks I'm putting are contained in your background. So, Prime Minister, I ask you, how is it possible that the government has decided on variant number two and is not a new resolution contrary to the interests of a prosperous, socially and economically stable state? [[Time warning]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u33	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u34	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, naturally, the extraction of brown coal and, in particular, its combustion has a negative impact on the environment. I would put emphasis on burning coal, because if you look at the negative externalities, so much smaller are associated with mining and much more are connected to burning brown coal in our territory within our energy. In the coalition agreement, we have committed ourselves to having another discussion as part of defining our energy and raw materials policy with a definitive solution to the horizon of the next two years as regards breaking the mining limits in northern Bohemia. This is what we agreed on at the end of 2013, when the current government coalition negotiated a coalition agreement. I am convinced that the procedure that we have announced in the coalition agreement has been fulfilled by our government. We did not decide isolatedly only about the territorial ecological limits in the Ústí Region, but we first decided on the state's energy concept. The government first approved the energy concept this year and the energy concept is not primarily based on the use of coal resources for electricity generation in the Czech Republic. The energy concept assumes that there will be two major pillars of energy here. The first pillar will be the nuclear resources that will be developed in the location of the existing two nuclear power plants, that is, Dukovany and Temelín, and the second pillar will be used by renewable resources throughout the spectrum that we are able to really use, under reasonable conditions and in terms of natural resources in the Czech Republic. So the pillar of our energy according to the approved concept will no longer be coal, but will be a core and will be renewable resources. As regards the position of coal in the energy sector, its weight will continue to be placed in the heating sector and in the area of use of coal for domestic heating. With regard to the share of electricity generation, coal will be third, fourth, together with the use of gas. So the first decision taken by the government is to approve the energy concept. Then we also approved the concept of the use of nuclear resources in the Czech Republic and decided that the government would support the expansion and renewal of blocks in Dukovany power plants and Temelín power plants. This was the second important decision we made. And that third decision in the context of raw material policy is the question of breaking or, rather, shifting the territorial ecological limits. I don't like to use the word "breaking" because it creates a situation as if there are no limits after that. They, of course, continue to apply those limits, but they are moving within the respective territory. We decided to move the limits only to the Bílina mine and we decided not to change the ecological limits to the ČSA mine. I am convinced that this is the right decision, because we are able to guarantee the need to use coal at the Bílina mine at the moment, but there is great uncertainty as to whether coal would be needed at the ČSA mine at all. So the certainty is not here, and rather the information available to the government is that this coal would not be needed to that extent. Moreover, we all know at ČSA that there is a great and fundamental conflict of interest. If surface mining continues beyond limits, it would require the demolition of municipalities or parts of municipalities. Now I'm talking about Upper Jiřetín and Černice. These municipalities, including the towns of Litvínova, have been building and are negative in order to shift the territorial ecological limits to ČSA. But the issue of employment is also crucial to the government. The decision to move the limits to Bílina, not to move to ČSA, was accompanied by a task for ministers to prepare a programme, a social programme for Mostecko so that in the coming years we could compensate for jobs that would eventually disappear at the ČSA mine. At the same time, we will also want to involve the North Bohemia mines, which are owned by ČEZ, so that the newly created jobs at Bílina Dole can also be used for people who will leave ČSA Dolu. So not only the decision on territorial ecological limits, but also the social programme for Mostecko. And the government is ready to support investment in Mosteck, which will lead to alternative jobs being created there. So there's no way we care about what's going to happen in Mosteck, especially in a situation where the region has been affected by major unemployment in the long run.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u35	Thank you. The Member has room for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u36	Well, I thank the Prime Minister for his answer, but I don't have that much time. That means I can't ask the questions here, or rather contradict the claims he's made here. But, of course, today I have an interview with Minister Mládek, where I will be more specific, and also with Minister Marksová, where she was given a job under unemployment. This means that we may even get more into the core of the problem. And I would just like to say that at present, the consumption for heat plants is over 7 million tons of coal per year, plus the Ledvice power plant, which needs at least 3 million tons of coal per year. But in the concept that is ready, coal mining will actually decrease after 2030 at the Bílina mine on some - from 8 to 4.5 million tons of coal, that means that coal will just be missing here. And I think that these claims are simply not all true and there are great contradictions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u38	Thank you. Let me add my answer, then. Primarily, the coal that will be mined in Bílina in the coming years - and, of course, that the government has shifted to Bílina's environmental limits does not mean that it is possible to begin to benefit more tomorrow. Of course, there will have to be a legal process here, and there will have to be all the necessary permits for mining to be extended. But the coal that will be extracted in Bílina should primarily be directed to heat plants and should be made available to households. According to the analyses we have at our disposal, coal extracted from Bílina will be necessary for heat plants and households. Otherwise, we would be in a situation where the Czech Republic would burn imported brown coal. [[15.20 hours]] If we were to meet these demands and not move the limits anywhere, we could get into this situation in the years to come until eventually heat plants and households could find some other source, but I'm afraid if we started importing coal for heat plants and households, it would make them very expensive. This is precisely what the government wanted to prevent from having a negative social impact. As far as Bílina is concerned, I would like to stress that, unlike ČSA, the municipality - Branany, Mariánské Račice, Most, Bílina - agrees to continue in Bílina. The municipality's requirement was that the territorial ecological limits would not end more than 500 metres from the built-up area. And that's where the government approved, on the basis of Minister Dienstbier's proposal, that the limits wouldn't be any closer than 500 meters. So even here, I think the government has complied with the demands of municipalities that otherwise agree to further mining at the Bílina mine. So much to clarify what the government has decided. I do not expect that we would be going back to this decision in the second half of the parliamentary term, but it will depend on an evaluation of how the state energy concept will work in the coming years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u39	Thank you. Mr Antonín Sed interpellation on vocational training will be the next intervention. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, the long-term problem of our economy is the lack of staff with vocational and technical training. It is not only a lack of technicians, engineers, technologists, but also metal machiners, welders, and plumbers. Even in the context of the migration crisis, the Chamber of Commerce said that it would accept 5 000 migrants for our industry. Every industrial company is struggling with a shortage of workers. The problem of today's and the near future is that growing exports and production face a shortage of employees, particularly with professional and technical education. This may reduce the growth of gross domestic product, which would have huge negative effects on state and public budgets, but also on the whole of society. That is why I want to ask, Prime Minister - this government has committed itself to promoting vocational and technical education. In my opinion, as well as experts' opinion, only the practice of secondary vocational school students in the workplace guarantees the quality of training. I therefore ask what concrete steps your government is preparing for employers to be sufficiently motivated to provide students with experience, if any. for further precautions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u41	Yes, and the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u42	Thank you. Dear Member, the issue of vocational education, quality vocational training, is, I think, a neural point in all the debates on education reform. Education needs reform, education needs reform, and it is obvious that at least some parts and floors of our educational system need to be linked to the needs of practice. What we experienced in recent years was that our school system developed somewhat mimposibly with how employers' structure changed in the Czech Republic. It has somehow stabilized, and it has now proved that the education system, especially with regard to secondary vocational education, is not based on principles that would allow a high level of success for graduates. So we are dealing with a certain paradox - inappropriately set structures of education, in some regions inappropriately set structures of disciplines contrary to what the need for practice is. And all of this is enhanced by the demographic decline that has happened in recent years with regard to graduates of secondary vocational schools and schools. Thus, the number of graduates of these schools is decreasing overall, and even a smaller number of graduates of schools and secondary vocational schools do not have an entirely appropriate structure of education in terms of the needs of practice. I am very pleased that a project was implemented here, which I think is important for the future debate, and this is the project Pospola, which was implemented between the Confederation of Industry and Transport and the Ministry of Education and was actually supporting cooperation between schools and companies with a focus on vocational training in practice. The aim of the project, which has actually been finalised, and the conclusions are already available, is to propose systemic changes, including legislative ones, which will lead to more effective and easier cooperation between schools and companies. Among other things, the question of facilitating the transition of graduates from school to practice, promoting their application in the field, increasing the qualitative level of competence of graduates in order to meet the needs of employers, I have already talked about this, aligning the supply of vocational training with changes in the skills needs of the labour market and increasing the attractiveness of vocational training for young people. So the project has been implemented, we have conclusions available, and now it is very important that, on the basis of these conclusions, the Ministry of Education should proceed with the changes that are being prepared in the field of vocational education. The Ministry of Education also published in January this year a methodological recommendation on the teaching of the education field Man and the world of work at the second stage of primary schools, where it recommends that primary schools pay increased attention to technical education within this educational field. With effect from 1 January 2014, the Income Tax Act has changed, and it now provides tax advantages for employers who allow practical teaching in their facilities. The amendment to the Education Act provides for the obligation of secondary schools to use uniform final exams in secondary education courses with a teaching certificate from the school year 2014-2015. Since 2014, the Ministry of Education has also regularly announced a development programme to support vocational education, which financially supports secondary schools in improving the quality of education in fields according to demand in the labour market. Of course, it is also an effort to make use of European money for technical education projects, including career advice, language training, as part of the Operational Programme Education for Competitiveness, and there are a number of specific projects that have been supported. With regard to other activities that the Ministry of Education is preparing, and here I think that Minister Valachová would certainly provide more detailed information, so it is also an important issue to develop other elements of polytechnic education, to use the challenges under the Operational Programme Research, Development and Education, to encourage cooperation between schools and employers, to develop extracurricular educational activities related to the inclusion of children who are at risk of early leaving education, and of course a regular analysis of the sector in cooperation with representatives of ministries and employers, so that the structure adapts more flexibly to the needs of the labour market in the coming years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u43	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I agree with the need to link the school system to labour market requirements, which has been discussed for a long time. I also know and support this project, because I also see the cooperation of companies with schools as the right path. However, the problem is the fact that businesses sometimes drag employees into each other's lives, that the company raises them, has practice, and then the others who do not participate in it are overwhelmed. The technical education system is also demanding, not only professionally but also financially. Many regions deal with this by various scholarships or direct support of technical schools. Prime Minister, don't you think it is necessary to start promoting technical education much more forcefully within the school system? Personally, I think that many companies have already understood this, understood their role and ensured future employees at their own expense. I will confess personally that I see reserves even in inefficient retraining, because the unemployed in our country are still a lot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u45	The Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u46	Thank you. Dear Member, I do not believe that companies should substitute, say, theoretical training in vocational education, secondary vocational education or technical education. We are, of course, very close to Austria and Germany, where the dual education system takes place, but he is very strongly based on the fact that Austrian or German companies are able to cooperate very effectively in various associations and economic chambers. In Austria, for example, the responsibility of employers for education is partly borne by the Chamber of Commerce, which, among other things, has. compulsory membership. There is no such thing in our country, and it is particularly a problem for small, medium-sized enterprises and start-ups to participate in training and education in the long term. [[15.30 hours]] Another situation is for large firms, stabilized, which have, for example, a thousand, a thousand, five hundred employees and have the opportunity to provide vocational training in practice, and something else is the question of a startup or a small company that does not have the administrative or financial capacity to do so. So we need to stand, respectively. the regions provided public education, but what is important is that public education in terms of the structure of the field be in contact with real life, so that it simply does not live for itself. So we need contact with real life, and if schools are unable to evaluate this alone, the founder must motivate them to do so or the Ministry of Education must motivate them to do so, and we will certainly talk about these instruments. The Ministry of Education is debating regional education reform, and there must also be instruments that will simply enable stronger links between education and the needs of practice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u47	Thank you. The next will be Mr Tomio Okamura on the referendum on EU withdrawal 1. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u48	Dear Prime Minister, allow me a direct brief question. Czech citizens want to vote in a referendum on speaking or staying in the European Union, as there are irreversible actions affecting the interests of the majority of the population and the damaging sovereignty of the Czech Republic. And soon it may be too late. Will your party, your government, and your coalitions allow citizens to decide for themselves in a democratic vote whether or not they believe in the European Union and want to remain in it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u49	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u50	Thank you. Dear Member, unlike the time I still remember well, it was 1992 and then Czechoslovakia was divided, so then we did not get the opportunity to comment on this as citizens in a referendum. No one asked us about it. When we asked why we couldn't vote and we couldn't directly comment on the issue of state division, then I guess Václav Klaus told us that we had voted in the elections and that that was enough. It was different when we decided to join the European Union. Citizens of the Czech Republic have decided to join the European Union in a direct vote. There was a referendum on accession to the European Union. And it is a good thing that the referendum was that it was not only the political representation at the time, because it was the crucial step that the Czech Republic took. And I see this crucial step as a step in the logic of our history. In the logic of our history, which was not easy at all. You know we're in the middle of Europe, blocks have always shared the center of Europe. Once we belonged to one group, once to another. And the Czech Republic is a country that, in my opinion, belongs to an advanced Europe in the West, and I see joining the European Union as a step that is in the logic of our history and our place in Europe. And I thank the citizens of the Czech Republic very much that when the referendum was over ten years ago, they decided to vote with a strong majority for the Czech Republic's accession to the European Union. Unlike the division of Czechoslovakia, no one went past people and everyone had the opportunity to say "yes" or "no." I went to vote in a referendum, and I said yes. Today's migration crisis opens up the question raised by Mr Okamura here, whether it would therefore not be better to leave the European Union in the context of tackling the migration crisis. I'm convinced it wouldn't be better. No country in itself, not even Germany, but also the Czech Republic, is able to address the migration crisis. No country in itself, look at Slovenia or Croatia today, is able to cope with the migration crisis. The movement is so great, the causes are so crucial that it can be faced as an individual, individual, independent state, even if we cross the double fence, the migration crisis will hit the Czech Republic as well. It is better to face such a serious crisis within the European Union. The second reason why I think it is good that the European Union is here or that many countries have the hope of joining the European Union is because if the European Union is not here, look, for example, today, which is taking place in the Balkans, the migration crisis is making relations between states very worse. And the European Union is the best way to prevent those degraded relations between states from becoming a conflict of war. We have had wars here in Europe, and we know how easily wars are created. The migration crisis is making relations between states worse, but Europe is able to deal with these things. That is why it is good that we have the European Union here as well as to prevent any conflict that could arise from the migration crisis. I will not support the idea of a referendum on leaving the European Union. I don't think there are economic, social, or legal reasons for this. If we came out of the European Union, we would make our citizens' socio-economic situation worse. And this isn't about European money at all. That's the thing that's gonna end one day. We will not always receive European subsidies, and we must prepare ourselves for the fact that this time is starting to get really close. But it's investment. There are no important subsidies, but investments are important. Thus, a country that is part of the European Union guarantees a certain standard of investor treatment. It's about security, it's about stability. These are all things that I think form an important part of the advantage of being members of the European Union. And no one can be angry with me that, as Prime Minister, I do not recommend a path that would be a way for the Czech Republic to deteriorate the standard of living of citizens, on the way to uncertainty, to safety risks. In today's world, I don't think it's appropriate for the country to remain alone to solve these serious problems. It's a good thing we have partners, it's a good thing we have allies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u51	Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u52	Dear Prime Minister, you're not telling the truth. For example, Switzerland avoids the immigration crisis and is not a member of the European Union. Great Britain is also preparing a referendum on leaving the European Union, and Norway and other countries, for example, are not there. And you have confirmed that you despise the opinion of citizens and do not want to allow them to decide for themselves their future in their country, even though a large part of the public does not want EU membership. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure of the House do not allow me to speak to you for more than one minute, as well as censorship in the Czech media does not allow me to freely tell the truth about what is happening in this republic. That's why I challenge you to a duel. After the end of today's negotiations, i.e. By interpelling, I am ready to stand with you in front of the camera that we have here behind the scenes prepared in the acts, and we will both tell the citizens in a straight line of opinion what we think about receiving illegal immigrants into the Czech Republic. If you can't do it today, we'll set another date this week. We'll publish the video on social media, and I guarantee you it'll be without censorship and manipulative editing. Let the citizens decide freely and on the basis of complete information, which of us is right and what future they will democratically choose for their country. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Do you accept my proposal for such a direct argument with me? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u53	The Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u54	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is an interpelling of the Chamber of Deputies to the Prime Minister, and I will be performing as part of the interpelling of the Chamber of Deputies to the Prime Minister, I will not be here to promote Okamura TV or any other media project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u55	The next will be Mr Marek Benda in the matter of Minister Pelikán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u56	Hello. Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about your minister, whom Mrs Columbová has already been called in the House in general. Everyone's heard of her, but no one's ever seen her before. A minister who would normally be asked here naturally, but since he's only been on interpellation once, it's hard to ask him. And you know that even on the Constitutional Legal Committee, across the political spectrum, far from just on the initiative of the opposition, patience has run out with Minister Pelikán not going anywhere, he doesn't talk to anyone, and all he can do is make press conferences at which he presents proposals that have no chance to pass. [[15.40 hours]] If it were just like that, you'd say good, one minister. Yet it is clear that the work at the Ministry of Justice has completely stopped, the criminal order will not, even its thesis will not be in this parliamentary term, the law on the prosecutor's office is presented in a form that is clearly unacceptable, and I firmly believe that you, as Prime Minister, will not let it go in this form, because it would mean absolutely unbridled power for a group of chosen ones, etc. etc. If we were talking about some reform of the judiciary and ministerial servants would tell us "no we are writing the White Paper of the judiciary," and if the Presidents of the courts asked them, "When can we comment on it?" - "Well, when we write it down and get it approved from the minister, we'll show it to you." Well, that sounds like somebody's kidding. At present there is news that the Minister is either on vacation in Delhi or hiding in the Czech Republic so that an envelope with a stripe cannot be delivered to him. I don't know what the truth is. So my question to you is simple. Did you release Minister Pelikán at the time of his budget for vacation in Delhi, or is he hiding from you? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u57	Yes. The Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u58	Thank you. [[With a smile.]] Dear Member, honourable Members, I have tried to find out what happened to the absence of Minister Pelikán at the current meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The information I have received is that the Minister is taking a long-term leave of absence. According to the information I received, the vacation should last for about two weeks. In fact, I am not aware of the place where Minister Pelikán is taking this leave, nor am I in the habit of finding out for other members of the government. I was informed by Minister Pelikán that he was going to take such a long vacation in the autumn of this year, but in truth I did not realize that this would intersect with the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where the participation of all members of the government would be so strictly required. So much for the leave of Minister Pelikán. However, I will probably not argue with the fact that Minister Pelikán has a lot of work ahead of him, and I will certainly give him the demand from Members and Members of the Chamber of Deputies for his more intensive involvement in the debates that are being held on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. So I'm sure I'll talk to Minister Pelikán after his return from his vacation. I will tell him that he should participate more intensively in the deliberations of the House of Deputies and, of course, I will want the Ministry of Justice to carry out the tasks it has under the Government's legislative plan, as we want other members of the government to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u59	Mr. Benda, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u60	Dear Prime Minister, I know he's a coalition minister, so you don't have him completely in your power. But after all, you are Prime Minister, and when someone stops working completely, it is essential that the Prime Minister, as far as the coalition partner is concerned, also replaces him. The problem is far from just in the House. I fear that there is no one in the professional public who knows what Minister Pelikán looks like and who would know his views before he says them at the press conference. This is simply a substantive problem which I think you, as Prime Minister, need to perceive and address. And I urge you not to let the Minister return from his vacation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u61	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u62	Thank you. Dear Member, first of all, I cannot agree with your claim that no one remembers what Minister Pelikán looks like. I still remember. Moreover, I must say and confirm that Minister Pelikán is very carefully and regularly taking place at the government's meeting. So I certainly can't complain that Minister Pelikán didn't attend the government meeting. And let's say that's one thing I want to point out. Second thing. I understand that the opposition tends to see the work of ministers black and criticize it. It is the challenge of the opposition. On the other hand, I am glad that some things are going well, which we also wanted in the Justice Department to be realized. And now I will mention, for example, the question of the amendment to the Act on bankruptcy and settlement, the insolvency law, where the proposal has already been submitted to the Legislative Council of the Government, and it is a matter for which there has been quite a strong demand, and I am glad that the legislative work in this area has progressed. So just one particular example of the fact that there's a lot going on at the Justice Department after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u63	Thank you. The next will be Mrs Strnadlová on the increase in salaries in the... state sector, I presume. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u64	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I hope I'm not gonna talk about Mrs. Columbová, but I'm gonna talk about something that we're all gonna see eventually. Prime Minister, the government has recently decided to raise salaries for civil servants. My main concern is teachers, firefighters and policemen. These are high-level social-credit professions, which is why I want to ask you what specifically they can expect from the promised raise in salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u65	Yes. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u66	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the decision to increase tariff salaries is one of the most important decisions the government has made in recent months because it addresses the issue of wage developments for public sector employees, which are several hundred thousand in the Czech Republic. First of all, I would like to ask that when we are debating the increase in tariff salaries, we consistently use the concept of public sector employees and not say officials. Because the officials, in particular, are people who are under the Civil Service Act, they are about 70,000. Indeed, they are officials with sleeves and work mainly on central government bodies. But when we talk about public sector employees, they're mainly teachers, they're the most, then they're firemen and policemen, there's a lot of them too, but of course they're other people, for example. those who work in financial offices and take care of tax collection or people who work in employment offices and care about the functioning of the social system. So they're public sector employees. I am very glad that we managed to find money this year, i.e. that the salary increase will not be until 1 January, but that we managed to agree in the coalition and the salary increase will be from 1 November this year. I want to inform you that the government has already approved the relevant tariff regulation. We approved it on the way to Ústí nad Labem, i.e. all decisions have been taken. Financing is provided. The funds will be restructured under State budget expenditure, i.e. The resorts will receive an increase in money so that they can add 3% to the tariff from 1 November this year. The increase will therefore continue next year. A separate chapter is a question of increasing the salaries of people who work in health care. We agreed that the salary increase would not be by 3 percent, but it would be by 5 percent. It has to do with what kind of health problem we have today, and it concerns securing personnel security. Of course, we have a health system mostly funded from general health insurance and logically patients - and they control it by insurance companies - require that there are certain standards, and they also relate to the number of personnel in health care establishments. We are beginning to have a problem because health nurses' salaries have increased in Slovakia. They brought in the euro. The crown weakened against the euro in the past period. There is a very strong demand for our doctors and medical staff in Germany, i.e. We are facing today's tide of skilled labor in health care to the west. Some of these people are going back to Slovakia. And if we are not wage-competitive, we will not be able to guarantee citizens quality health care. Therefore, not 3% in health care, therefore 5% in health care. The Government's regulation has been approved and the payment decree should ensure an increase in payments from the health insurance scheme. And in the budget that we are discussing here in the Chamber of Deputies, there is an increase in payments for state insured persons, i.e. a contribution to making the health insurance scheme available to raise salaries financially. [[15.50 hours]] I would like to ask for the support of this measure, because without being able to raise salaries for people who work in the health sector, we will not be able to provide enough qualified doctors, qualified nurses to provide quality health care for our citizens. Two important pay decisions. I am convinced that the government is also issuing a signal to the private sector, and that is the last thing I would like to mention. When we dealt with extremely low pension valorization, one of the reasons why pension valorization is so low is because in recent years there have been no increases in salaries. We stopped catching up with Western countries from an economic point of view, we stopped catching up with them in terms of living standards. One reason is the fact that wages didn't grow. The government is sending a signal to the rest of the economy by increasing the minimum wage, and we are sending out a signal that employees deserve to raise salaries. They deserve to raise their salaries. The profits that the company has due to economic growth should also be shared with its employees. It is, of course, a matter that the government cannot decide. It's a matter of negotiation. It is a question of collective negotiation of trade unions, the employment of employees. But I am convinced that even in the private sector, salaries should grow in the next period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u67	The Member does not wish to speak further. Mr. Klučka has a chance. Please. Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry, I've been apologizing to Mr Junek since 3:30. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madame Lady, for allowing me to do my interview. At the same time let me begin, Prime Minister, with such a small notic. I'm mostly accused of having an interpellation prepared for the Prime Minister to use our time. This time I will convince everyone present that this is not the case, because the mining limits have already been made and presented to my colleague Aulicka, so no one can suspect that I would agree with her to respond to my interpelation. So I'm going to change the subject, and I'm going to assume that as Prime Minister, you will be able to respond to it. In the Czech Republic, the economy is growing and unemployment is falling, but at the same time the number of socially excluded localities is growing. Safety risks in this location are increasing. Social risks are increasing. As a result, you met with the mayor of cities from excluded localities last week. I would like to know what topics and what conclusions you discussed at this meeting with the representatives of the authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u69	Change in the topic of interpelation. That's quite unique, but the Prime Minister likes to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u70	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to take advantage of the time that may still be left by the end of the interview to answer. The issue of socially excluded localities is really serious. It is paradoxical, of course, because, according to a study that has been published recently and which covers the past few years, the number of socially excluded localities has increased. You know that there's a social inclusion agency at the Office of the Government. This agency was mentioned in particular at the time of the exchange of its management. It wasn't an easy situation back then. I personally participated in the negotiations, and my concern was that the Agency should not fall apart to remain able to work there as far as possible, and I am very pleased that the new director of the Agency, who was selected in the selection procedure, is a person who is able to ensure that the Agency is now preparing to use a relatively large amount of money from the European Union, which we can use to stabilise the situation in socially excluded localities. About 10 billion will be available for integrated projects coordinated by the Agency for Social Inclusion. crowns in the coming years. It's a big opportunity, I think, and I'm also saying it here during the interviews, to highlight it, for all the communities who want to participate in the projects. It's a chance to get resources for projects in these very locations. I'm so glad. I wanted to meet with the mayors of cities and municipalities on purpose to hear from them how they perceive the activities of the Agency for Social Inclusion, how they perceive the activities of the government, where they see problems. I can say from the point of view of the meeting that we had, first of all, the Agency is not a problem. In the past, a number of municipalities have complained that the Agency is not working, that it has no benefits. It seems to me from the debate that the Agency is no longer a problem as an institution and that everyone is now focused on really coordinating activities and that the projects that can be implemented effectively in the next period can be used effectively. The second conclusion I have is that the big problem is social housing and housing as such. We have a crime problem in socially excluded localities, we have a problem with youth crime, we have a problem with unemployment and we have a problem with social housing. As far as housing is concerned, the amendments have succeeded, and I thank the House that the amendment has been approved, to limit the abuse of social benefits to residential hotels, but the problem is moving into our apartments. This means that entrepreneurs use low prices of flats in socially excluded localities, instead of accommodations they buy a group of apartments, rent these flats for amounts that do not correspond to the usual rent. So we need to add legislation here, and we need to have a price map that will provide ceilings for the welfare benefits provided for housing. We still have a problem with living here, moving gradually from the residential hotels to the apartments. We've regulated the hostels, apartments are a problem. Another feedback I have is that the government's measure implemented by the Ministry of Environment has worked, and that is a restriction on the purchase of metals in collections. This led to a significant reduction in crime, which has been associated with this phenomenon in the past. This measure also worked. It turned out that it was a good thing that we limited and actually prevented cash payments in this area. It helped. Certainly what works very well are different preventists programs in these locations - the janitor program, again a very good thing. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is also able to provide funding for this area under the Active Employment Policy Programme. In addition to active employment policy. I am pleased that the Ministry of Labour has made certain changes regarding the conditions for employing people for community service. This means that it is possible to employ these people not only for a year, but maybe two years. That's important. The mayors of municipalities with socially excluded localities are calling after the restoration of the public service institute. Another clue. I know that legislation is now in the Chamber of Deputies. I asked Minister Marksová to press as a government to complete the hearing because what happened in the past with the public service discredited this institute. It turns out that for some people it is an activation tool that can actually activate them. They don't sit at home, they don't just receive benefits, but they participate in community service, but it can't be a public service that was stitched up for Minister Drábek, but it has to be a public service that motivates people. They will have a chance to make extra money in this public service to the benefits they would otherwise receive without working.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u71	Thank you. The Member does not wish to ask an additional question. I will ask Mrs Válková if he wants to ask the Prime Minister in the last two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u72	Dear Prime Minister, I must limit the question to just one sentence and give you my more detailed written questions to answer. I wonder if Mr Bílek, as Director of the General Inspection of Security Forces, has ever explained to you in the past how he ensures the independence of the GIBS control department, what the results of this department are, whether he has ever submitted a comparison of information collected by a specialized trade union which collects information on police activities in the Czech Republic, with Mr tušit's investigative file, whether GIBS responded to the activities and activities and recommendations of Ms Besserová, who has drawn attention to the departures of a number of criminalists from the Regional Directorate of Police in the Olomouc Region, and whether Mr Bílek has submitted a report to you as the body to which he is responsible, to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, on the way and with which the results are co-operated by GIBS with specialised nationwide units: the Unit for the detection of organised crime, the Corruption and Financial Crime Unit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u73	Madam, I am very sorry, but this question will remain rhetorical, because the Prime Minister will no longer have the floor to answer you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u74	Okay. So I'm done and I'm gonna hand over the original to the Prime Minister. I will hope, and as I know him, I can trust that I will certainly have a specific and accurate answer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u75	Thank you. I also thank the Prime Minister and request a replacement. We'll continue to interpel on individual ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u76	Good afternoon. I will ask the first winner, and that is Mr Kučera to present his interpellation to Minister Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u77	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, on Monday of this week, the government of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL decided to break the ecological limits of mining, and what is absolutely unprecedented, also decided by your voice, the voice of the Minister of the Environment. The ecological mining limits were set in 1991 and the limits dealt with such capacity in the field of nature conservation, such as Mr Ivan Dejmal, Mr Bedřich Moldan or Mr Josef Vavroušek. You, Minister of the Environment Brabč, with two years of experience in the performance of the Minister of the Environment, and, as far as I know, with zero scientific activity in the field of ecology, have denied the work of these Czech scientists and personalities absolutely. You are subsequently defending your decision to break limits in the media, where you claim that, from the point of view of nature protection, the breach of ecological mining limits is negligible and that the main problem is only the burning of coal in heat plants, which probably would not be expressed by any European environmental minister. I would like to ask you, Minister, for the expert opinion of the Ministry of the Environment, how it is possible that surface extraction of 5 x 5 km does not have a negative impact on the landscape and human health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u78	Thank you for asking me a question, and I'll ask the Minister for a response. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u79	Good afternoon. Madam President, Mr Kučera, ladies and gentlemen, of course, I said this, it was one of the most difficult, if not the most difficult, decisions I have made so far in my career as Minister of the Environment, and I also said that if I wanted to hide myself alibistically, I already knew, according to the indicative vote, that other members of the government would vote for this, and I did not have to add my vote. I finally did this because they were transporting other interests, and because I have been very intensely long and I think very comprehensively, I have familiarized myself with the issue in the area, I have visited the area several times, I have spoken with the mayor of the municipalities, I have spoken with people from surrounding municipalities, whether it be Branany, Mariánské Radčice, Horní Jiřetín, Černice and others, and of course I have read all the underlying studies, including the study of so-called externalities. And as you rightly said - but I'm just correcting your statement that it's meaningless. It's not significant, you just called it looting the landscape. And for me, looting the landscape, if we take the plundering of the landscape, she can, of course, have that kind of interference, but then we can talk about quarrying, we can talk about mining all the mineral resources. And I said here - for me as Minister of the Environment, of course, no surface extraction can have a beneficial impact on the environment. In this particular case, given what was obtained by this decision, first of all, extraction, virtually. Breaking limits does not mean mining, ad a). Mining may be in ten years. I'm saying maybe. It can also happen, and I would very much like it if there were no mining. However, the Czech Republic bought time with this decision, bought time to decide on energy security, to secure coal for households and for the socially sustainable price of heat. From the environmental and health impact point of view, we both know that, indeed, the relatively smallest, fundamentally the smallest impact has its own mining. That makes about 2 percent of the externalities. And with adequately managed protective measures not only the sanitary zone of those 500 meters that we have pushed through, but also other damage protection measures, and others that will be part of the EIA, noise studies and dispersion studies, the relative impact on health and the environment can be minimized. It will never be zero, there will always be one, but even with that knowledge, I made that decision. And again, it wasn't an easy decision. I'm sure I'll be criticized for that. I've already been criticized. But when you noticed the reaction of a number of people again, they were relatively moderate. They were moderate because those people just knew what we had gained and what we had sacrificed. With that knowledge, I made the decision. Believe that if the surrounding communities - I don't think they're just naughty miners, because that would have happened in the case of Horní Jiřetín and Černic, and it obviously didn't happen there - if those municipalities were so fundamentally afraid of environmental damage, they would have acted much more forcefully in the case of Bílina. But I believe that these risks can be minimized, and 98 percent of the externalities from mining are from burning coal, and there we must draw attention. If we burn coal ecologically in modern, albeit smaller boilers, or in green heat plants or power plants, the impact on the environment can be significantly reduced. The worst is to import coal and thus not preserve jobs, while having a major impact from combustion on the environment. This is the lesser evil. And I voted for less evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u80	I thank you, the Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u81	Dear Minister, on the basis of your statement and your vote, which goes directly against the protection of nature and landscape, I would like to call on you not to cause further environmental damage and to consider your resignation as Minister of the Environment. Minister, look more closely at the area which is clearly closer to you, i.e. industry and trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u82	The Minister will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u83	Thank you. I'm sure I'll consider the challenge, Mr. Ambassador. I think in the next term, you can replace me at this post. You'll look nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u84	Thank you. Next in line, please, and that is Mr Bendl. With his intervention, he will address the Minister of Transport Daniel Ťok. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u85	Thank you for the floor. My question is very simple. Minister, why did you conclude a contract with Deloitte without a tender for the operation of the toll system project manager when you yourself canceled the tender a few months ago and called it unnecessary, and I note that according to my information Deloitte hired Swedish or parent company Skansky in Sweden and had Skanska Czech Republic conduct a forensic audit at Deloitte. Since you were the senior manager of Skanska, the question is whether you are getting into a significant conflict of interest. This time I'd take it really without laughing. I think you should, if Deloitte proves to be doing a forensic audit for Skanska in Sweden and a forensic audit for Skanska in the Czech Republic, that you should consider remaining in office, because it is extremely regrettable and it is beyond the limit I do not want to say decency, but I do not want to use strong terms, let everyone make a picture of it themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u86	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that in this, in the second interview, Mr Bendl called for me to resign or leave the Ministry. I'd like to explain here what led us to conclude a contract with Deloitte. I just want to say here that it's not a contract with Deloitte, but it's Deloitte and CGI together, because we weren't looking for the company, we were looking for people who could help us. Before I look into the explanation, but I'd like to turn against some things. First of all, I think that this absurd accusation of conflict of interest is so absurd that it may not even be worth the answer. I do not know whether, through Madam President, Mr Bendl has noticed that I have not been active in Skanska for almost a year and I have absolutely no influence on its activities, and frankly, I was neither too aware of who Skanska has ordered for internal audit or for forensic audit whether the headquarters did or did not. Those are things I'm not too interested in. I promised to cut off Skanska's contacts on my arrival, and I did. So I'd like to declare that this feels like an absolutely incredible structure. When I first heard it, I didn't think anyone would be willing to repeat it. However, it is unfortunately true. I'd like to get back to the point. You have both contacted me and the Prime Minister with questions related to some of the current steps of the Ministry of Transport in preparing the toll system operation after the end of 2016, when the service contract concluded with the consortium Kapsch expires. In response to the obligations imposed by the Government in August, the Ministry of Transport embarked on all relevant activities, but on new initial or more precisely determining propositions. Their essential elements are firstly to prepare and implement the procurement procedure for the operation of the existing toll system for a period of three years, to prepare and implement the procurement procedure for the project manager, which will process a new charging concept for the period 2019 and will help the State to implement the procurement procedure for the selection of the toll system supplier and its services. All this for the period 2020 to 2030. Thirdly, as I have already said, implement the award procedure for the subsequent award procedure. The successful implementation of the procurement procedure for the operation of the existing toll system necessarily precedes the implementation of one step: reaching an agreement with Kapsch on when the State obtains copyright and technical documentation on the current toll system, as well as an agreement on what support in terms of quantitative and qualitative will be provided by the Kapsch entity selected in the tender procedure as a new supplier of services of the existing toll system. And now I come, ladies and gentlemen, to the substance of the questions. Since April, the Ministry of Transport has been conducting demanding negotiations with Kapsch. On a number of key topics, material agreement has been reached. Unfortunately, however, we were forced to say in the Ministry that we are not able by our forces to complete these negotiations, even though it seemed that way at first. The fact is that anyone will be questioned in any way. And now let's ask ourselves what was right, legitimate and legal at that moment. It was only me and my people in January and February of this year who drew attention to the fatal shortcomings in the contract of the technical documentation parties, the copyright to the toll system in its current form, and we also started to deal with it because there is nothing else left. Otherwise, there will be no more tolls for January 2017. That is why, in a situation where we have found that without external assistance, we have not moved on, we have tried to secure what is needed. The law in force on public procurement knows the method of award, which in these situations is usable and thus completely legal at the same time. [[Prime Minister, I am so sorry, but your five minutes have passed.]] So only if I can do one sentence or two sentences. What we did was secure the selection of the myth after 2016 and we did it legally. Blaming us for doing this illegally is completely odd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u88	You will obviously still have two minutes to express yourself, because the Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u89	I'm sorry, Minister. That's just talk. You commissioned a CZK 52 million contract from your hand for the subject matter of the activity, whose tender was cancelled about ten months before. You canceled the tender and after ten months you found yourself under time pressure, and you put out a contract for CZK 52 million to a company that is likely to solve or solve the forensic audit of Skanska Czech Republic and all cases related to it in the past. If this proves to be true, in short, I'm sorry, but you should no longer serve as Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u90	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response. Please, Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u91	Unfortunately, I didn't have time to read the whole thing, but I'm going to answer it simply. Mr Bendle, by means of Madam President, I have not commissioned Deloitte on the same subject for which I canceled the contract. This is a completely different activity than what we're talking about. Activity of project manager. If you say it's not, maybe that's your opinion, I'll prove it to you. The project manager's work on this was an agreement that the contract would be, and we'll write it down by the end of this year. I didn't say we didn't need it, I said in January last year that we had to cancel it because it has serious shortcomings and otherwise it would have been cancelled by the UOHS, it's very simple. This is what specialists who happen to be at Deloitte and CGI are supposed to be doing today to help us fix things that are just not right in that contract. And every minister before me had a chance to fix them. I'm just asking why he didn't do it. And when I do it in the real way that I had to, that means out of extreme need, it's more important to me that I'm going to give a contract to someone who can fix it and help us pick a myth, because two days of non-selection myth is more than the 52 million crowns. There's one more thing I'd like to say. The agreement concluded with Deloitte is designed so that by its conclusion Deloitte did not receive any right to anything at all, any activity will be carried out only on the basis of written instructions from the Ministry. We chose this procedure precisely so that we could not successfully be blamed for passing something to someone, some fixed amount, and nothing can be done about it. Therefore, if the competence and fitness of the Ministry of Transport are sufficient, the services of technical and organisational advisors may not be used. And I'm stressing here, this is a contract for a technical-organization consultant, and the tolling manager's contract will only be published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u92	Minister, I'm sorry, your two minutes are gone. It is time for the next interview with which Mr Ondráček, who wants to interpel the absent Minister Pelikán, comes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear absent - traditionally absent - Minister. According to my information, currently the Czech Prison Service has a personnel base of about 400 members. You recently lent a former prison in Drahonice, a facility in Drahonice, the Ministry of the Interior, where a facility for refugees was created. I don't know who exactly, or I know who exactly, but that's not part of this interpelation, has agreed with the Ministry of the Interior that you will provide about 80 or 90 members of the prison service to guard this residence facility. [[16.20 hours]] I would like to point out that, at present, in the absence of members of the prison service, judicial guards from the counties are coming to assist in the Prague prisons. So the question is, where do you take the 80 or 90 prison officers to keep you from serving in prison? What idea do you have of serving them? Whether you consider this to be an important interest in the service, that means that you will so-called green people and those boys will serve there for free, or whether you have the funds prepared and you will be able to pay them in full according to the extent of the hours served. This is what I'd like to hear from you, this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u94	Thank you. Now let me read the apology of Mrs Válková, who apologizes from today's 16 o'clock to the end for work reasons. Now, to Mr Korte's microphone, please intersect Minister Herman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u95	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the income of the State Fund of Culture of the Czech Republic is CZK 13 121 920 from the lease of the National House in Vinohrady, historically known as the Cultural House of Railway Workers. Current tenant The company National house, Cultural house of railwaymen, s. r o., is now demanding a reduction of rent due to a decrease in interest in renting space in the building and due to an overall decrease in rental prices in Prague. As a result, the tenants allegedly dropped the rent profits, so the lease is for him, the poor guy, the loser. The Department of Investment and Public Procurement of the Ministry of Culture has had an expert opinion on the amount of the rent expert offices Jokl Appraisal, which, by the way, has already been drawn up in the past similar assessment for tenants. So, in Claris, to make it clear what I'm talking about, this company works in the pay, and therefore in the interests of the tenant, not in the interests of the Ministry of Culture. On the basis of this assessment, the department in question proposes that the rent reduction request be granted to the sum of CZK 10 million, which is CZK 500,000, by a total of 20 percent. Dear Minister, by reducing the rent, you are caring for the profit of a commercial entity. How does this compare with your duty to care for state property as a proper caregiver? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u96	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u97	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, honourable Members, with the National House in Vinohrady, which is the property of the state, it is competent to manage the State Fund for Culture of the Czech Republic. The State Culture Fund leases the National House in Vinohrady as a whole of the company National House, the Cultural House of Railway Workers, s. r. o., on the basis of the lease agreement of 24 June 2011. The total annual rent, i.e. for the house and the land, is agreed at CZK 13 121 920 per year, as stated. In 2013, the managing director asked my predecessor Minister of Culture Jiří Balvín to reduce the rent due to a proven decrease in the usual amount in the given place and time. In support of its claim, Jokl Appraisal submitted an expert opinion of 2 December 2013. The tenant's request was granted and an amendment to the lease agreement was concluded on 31 December 2013 according to which the rent for the calendar year 2014 is CZK 11 621 920, i.e. reduced by CZK 1.5 million. In 2015, the managing director asked the tenant again to reduce the rent by 20 per cent or to sell the entire property. The application was assigned to the Ministry of Culture's economic section. The Public Procurement Department had an expert opinion updated in order to determine the normal rental of the building by the same expert institute which prepared the previous expert opinion for the tenant in 2013. On the basis of this new assessment of 11 September 2015, it recommended reducing the rent by 20 per cent, as stated. The relevant department received the opinion of the economic department for the assessment. Since rent income is the source of the State Fund of Culture, the proposal for a reduction of rent was submitted for discussion to the Council of the State Fund of Culture as an authority within whose competence pursuant to Section 5 of Act 239/1992 Coll., as amended, the assessment of the fundamental issues of the creation and use of funds of the Fund falls. The Council of the State Fund of Culture unanimously did not recommend a reduction of rent and proposed that a new independent expert opinion be drawn up. I will discuss this issue with the Council of the State Fund of Culture on 11 November this year. So I have not yet decided on this matter, and thank you in any case for your interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u98	Thank you. The Member - I ask - wants to ask an additional question. Looks like it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u99	Thank you. Minister, I would like you to think about a paradox in making this decision, which involves, after all, you mentioned it yourself. The poor tenant is losing money, but he's repeatedly offering to buy out the property he's been losing. I do not understand this, and I hope that you will take this issue into account in your decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u100	Minister, do you want to respond? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u101	Thank you. Madam President, by your means, I thank my colleague Korte for this interest and for the fact that he is really trying to make things right. It is also my concern, and I can promise that I will actually take these things into account when negotiating with the Council of the State Fund of Culture, because it is necessary, with the utmost responsibility and care, to approach this issue properly. So thank you again for your concern, support and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u102	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone next in order. This is Mr Adam, who will intersect the absent Minister Svatopluk Němeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u103	Dear absent, Minister. I'm turning to you about the supply of pharmacies with some medications. These are products in the field of neurology and some ORL preparations. The blackouts are long-term and distribution is not disrupted for days or weeks, but even months. GlaxoSmithKline was supposed to end the blackout at the end of September, then in mid-October, and the last report says it should be at the end of November. Theoretically, the drug can be replaced by a generic medicine, but the replacement is not entirely equivalent. My question is simple and it is: Is there anything that can be done, Minister, in order for the manufacturer to comply with what it signals in pharmaceutical information itself? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u104	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone of Mr Zahradník, who will intersect the Minister of Education, which I do not see here, but I think it is registered here somewhere. Let's load your interpelation. Come on, please, I can't do this any different if she's not here, so load her up, I can't just move you somewhere else. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u105	Madam Vice-President, I don't want to put any pressure on Minister Valachová, or now, for God's sake, she came from somewhere. I prefer to ask her that question in person. At this point, I'm downloading the interpellation, and I'm gonna give it away in peace and quiet sometime on the next interpelatory day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u106	Yes, thank you. Another person who should bring his intervention is Mr Zdeněk Soukup, who will interpel an absent Mrs Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to turn to the absent Minister Marksová, because I know that she is probably with the President for the kangaroos, so she is taking it higher, so I accept it. Still, I'll read what I had to say. Employers in the western border have a serious problem. Firms from the Federal Republic of Germany are dragging their skilled workers. They can offer incomparably higher salaries, they also offer Czech employees the advantages of their social system. Just for the record, there's an extra 190 euros per child. This is objectively given and, in essence, corresponds to the principles and the advantages and disadvantages that membership of the European Union gives us. What is worse, however, is that Czech employees leave for better without complying with valid employment contracts without respecting our Czech labour code, sometimes practically from day to day. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, one of the Czech forwarders complained to me and told me about one such incredible case, when he sent his employee, into whom he invested in a driving licence and until training about 350 thousand crowns, to Germany with a truck, and he called him back in a few days to get a truck somewhere to give him the keys that he had found another job. How is that possible? German employers usually do not require credit cards, this was absolutely incredible for me, proof of cancellation from insurance premiums in the Czech Republic or other documents such as the termination agreement in the last job. And this is not only for drivers, but also for engineers, medical personnel and other workers. True, it's possible to sue, but that's a long shot, and most employers prefer to give up. They have to pay social and health insurance for them as long as the trial is taking place, and they have to pretend that they are basically still Czech employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u108	Ambassador, your two minutes are up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u109	Madam Secretary, the question is: do you know about this situation? Is it possible to solve it in any way?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u110	Thank you and now, please, next in line and this is Mrs Pěnčíková, who wants to interpel an absent Minister of Education. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u111	Hello, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, October 14, 2015 was a year from the incident that took place at the high school in Žďár, where student Petr Vejvoda was stabbed to death by a mentally ill woman. In response to this tragedy, former Minister Chládek promised to promote better school security. According to my information, the Ministry divided 6 million into 64 schools for this purpose. But more than three thousand still remain, which allegedly showed interest in security. What about them, then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u112	I thank and ask Mrs Chalánková, who I do not see here, therefore her interpelation is failing. I will ask Mr Shidlo, who will interpel the Minister of the Environment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u113	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, this year has been a clear example for the people of Sumava and Pošumaví about the need to ensure rational water management. Since 1963 Šumava has been protected for its natural and landscape values in the form of a protected landscape area and its central part since 1991 as a national park. At present, the nature conservation method is contrary to global scientific biotope assistance protection. An ideologically extreme concept of impactless natural processes, including droughts, floods, pest epidemics, storms and fires, is being applied to the production of virtual wilderness in cultivated biotopes by drought revolutions. There has been a massive death of ridge spruce at the state border of 40 kilometers by the actual restrictions on the outbreak of bark. Ideologists do not mind that Sumava was also declared a protected area of natural water accumulation. As a result of their activities, its water management function was catastrophically degraded by the drying of Sumava and, in particular, its bogs, which are the most valuable natural potential. Reliable and indisputable indicators of the real water balance are humid plants and aquatic animals, including muffins and water conditions in lakes and streams. So far the forests have died on an area of 20,000 hectares, and the damage to the forests is more than CZK 100 billion. Now let me ask you some questions. One: As amended by Act No. 114/1992 Coll. creates conditions for proper water accumulation function in Sumava. Two: Can expansion without interference prevent the drying of Sumava? And third: the Ministry of Environment does not accept long-term scientific and practical knowledge that the dead forest cannot be better than the green forest for Sumava nature?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u114	Ambassador, your time, I'm sorry. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u115	Thank you for asking. Dear Member, this is a topic that has already been discussed here within the framework of the interpellation and will undoubtedly also be within the framework of the interruption of the amendment of Law 114. At the beginning, I'll say what I've already said and what I'm paying. You're right, Šumava is really drying out. Sumava's drying out dramatically. And where we differ in that opinion - and I will return to it shortly - is what it is caused by. Definitely the barking calamity, respectively the Orkán Kyrill and the following crusting calamity and, of course, the range without intervention areas is not what would positively affect the drying of Sumava, or what would prevent it. But I'm convinced it's not even a factor that was crucial to the drying of Sumava. I've already talked about this, there are several evidence. From a wide range of available professional studies, e.g. From the water catchment area of Modravský brook, it follows that the decay of the tree floor of mountain spruce, which is called dry forest, practically does not affect the drainage of precipitation waters within the water catchment area, which shows the data of the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute, which has been available since 1931. Before leaving a number of areas of spontaneous development, revitalization has been carried out in many places in the past of the damaged water regime before and basically today, or at present we are in a situation where more than 3,000 hectares of peatlands have actually been drained. Newly, of course, this drainage was interrupted, respectively, at about 600 hectares in the past of drained peatlands, and according to current measurements, the water level in those revitalized peatlands decreased by an average of 15 centimeters during this year's dry summer, while for the others up to a meter. So it's simply obvious that this drainage, of course, contributed significantly to this, which was a targeted step. And it is our intention, and the Sumava National Park has it as one of its priority tasks to do as quickly as possible, but it will take many years, actually interrupted and prevented the drainage of the peatlands by interrupting, let's say, the drainage grooves and other measures that were taken at the time. And today, of course, we're acting completely different, logically. The hundred and fourteen do not prevent or create any obstacles to the possibility of water accumulation in the region and vice versa, I also mentioned that under the care plan and also within the framework of the EIA project right now, the possibility of restoring those clauses, those float tanks, at least in two or three cases will be assessed. And I'd like to personally, and we'll do everything we can to restore those tanks that we can, and it wasn't in direct conflict, for example, in those first zones with the subject of protection, to be as much as possible. This means, to your question - the amendment does not create any obstacles to the possibility of water accumulation and there are other documents that will contribute to this. To the question of why we do not accept long-term scientific and practical knowledge that a dead forest cannot be better than a green forest. That's the basic philosophical debate, or I dare say the scientific debate that is going on among many scientists today, and those opinions are really different. But I'm from experience, and I'm sure you also know from Sumava that he's the forest, even though he looks dry on the top tree floor, so he's not dead. [[16.40 hours]] There's something going on downstairs, and now there are different areas where something's happening faster, where the natural rejuvenation and the recovery are going faster, and there are areas where it's going slower. I agree that even those, say, dry episodes that are likely to increase in the future will naturally slow down the recovery. I'm not an ideological supporter of interference, I've said it several times. I also said that we should give nature time -- and this is a 15-year moratorium -- I'm criticized for it from many sides -- to point out in those uninhibited territories what it can do, and after 15 years to get back to that thing. So I'm not a fan of major expansion without intervention right now, certainly not in the foreseeable future at 50 percent, as a certain part of the public wants. However, I believe that the drying of Sumava is much more related to the lack of snow, the hot winters and the lack of water that complements the groundwater during the spring melt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u116	Minister, I'm sorry, your time is up. [[Minister Brabec: I'm sorry.]] Room for a supplementary question by the Member. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u117	Thank you. I see, Minister, that we may disagree here. I meant the third question, for example. acceptance of experience, and really scientific experience, which was put together by profesor Jan Čermák from Mendelea in Brno. These are various biophysical and biochemical measurements not only in the Czech Republic but also in the world. I think that these prove clearly that it is really necessary to preserve the cycle of water. And the second thing I'm talking about is my personal experience. I live in Posumawi, and I can tell you that three months without water is a tragedy for that territory at the foot of Sumava, not for the very Sumava. And if there isn't a green forest, I don't believe there will ever be new collisions in our territory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u118	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response. Two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u119	I'm sorry, it'll be less. Just for a quick reaction. On the other hand, many other scientific works have proved that the best for water cycle, paradoxically not the high tree floor, but the grassy floor with bushes and smaller trees. I know, there are theories about how - I've also heard it now during lectures in Sumava - how the tall trees actually comb the fog and catch the fog and catch the collisions. You know, it's... I've got a house full of hydrologists at the Research Institute of Water Management, so I'm talking to them. Believe me, this is no time for a disputation professional, but believe me, we're gonna try to do or we're gonna do everything we can to ensure that the cycle of water is actually preserved there. We will try to minimize the losses that have already occurred, certainly not increase them and, on the contrary, do everything we can to make improvements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u120	Thank you. Now allow me to load one apology. From 16.30 to the end of the day of the hearing, for reasons of work, the Minister of Justice Ťok, who was forced to go to the Senate to defend his laws. Now, please, to the microphone of Mr Oklešťek, who will interpel the Minister of the Environment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, we have a surprisingly hot season again. In the Moravian-Silesian region, dispersal conditions are once again impaired and local limits are exceeded. For example, this Monday in Věřnovice in Karvinsko measured the amount of dust in the air up to 110 micrograms per cubic metre, while the limit is, as you know, 50, and was thus exceeded more than twice as much. The smog situation repeats every year and the situation improves only slowly. What has the Ministry of Environment done this year to make Karvinska and all of us breathe better?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u122	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for a five-minute answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u123	Thank you, even for the heads-up. So I took quite a wealth of material, including pictures, but then I will show it to my colleague Oklešťek in private. I am asking similar questions, which are usually asked by my colleague Šincl, so I said when he asked me when I expected a more significant improvement in air quality, so I said I could imagine it in the heating season 2016-2017, when I thought it would start to work, a major project that we started, and these are boiler subsidies from European sources. The Moravian-Silesian Region is a region that in the first three-billion-dollar challenge that was launched, he said the largest amount, logically speaking. He asked for nearly half a billion crowns to replace boilers, so there is a chance that up to 4,000 of the most - or the least ecological boilers - could be replaced in the first challenge. So this is the first step, and I believe that when this program arrives, I believe that in the Moravian-Silesian region, up to 15,000 of the most polluting local pots that have a major impact on dust microparticles and those carcinogens linked to them could be replaced, so there could really be significant improvements. Of course, it depends a lot on the weather situation. But you're right, Mr. Ambassador, that the improvement is far from as fast as we all would like. That's why we've taken further action. Now, in the Government's Legislative Council, there is an amendment to the Act on Air Protection, which will allow, among other things, a quite revolutionary principle, i.e. if it passes, our proposal, the possibility of control - of course, under certain clearly defined conditions, so as not to be subject to bullying - household controls, which are so requested by municipalities, household checks, whether there is no incineration of waste at any repeated suspicion. A very important step is the project Medium-term strategy for improving air quality, which we have prepared and which we are working with individual regional authorities into the form of so-called. national emission reduction programmes, when for specific agglomerations, e.g. Ostrava, Karvinsko and Frýdecko-Místecko Regional Authority will have much stronger tools at its disposal so that by opening those integrated permits it can achieve a reduction in those emission ceilings, because for each agglomeration they will actually be set so-called. emission ceilings, which will then give the regional authority greater competence e.g. In case of smog situations. Furthermore, cooperation with Poland continues, where joint projects actually work, e.g. under the Life cross-border programme and also projects that actually motivate the Polish side to replace local boilers that are an important polluter. Of course we have prepared other transport projects, these are the issues of bypassing individual cities, low emission zones, we have prepared other voluntary contracts with the largest issuers, when the industry is already in a state of relatively good shape today, or I think there has been a significant environmentalization of the large industrial units, and now we personally see the biggest problem in the local boilers, in the road transport and in the rest of the so-called. Fugitive emissions. These are the emissions that don't have any specific exhausts, e.g. the chimney, but it's the drains of landfills, the various handling of bulk materials, and that's all the stuff that's in the agglomeration program to reduce emissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u124	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u125	Thank you. It's the cross-border cooperation with Poland that I'm interested in, that's what it was about, because if we take measures at the maximum level on one side of the border, then if we don't do them on both sides, they're useless to us. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u126	The Minister won't respond, thank you. And now I'm going to ask Mr. Holeček to read his interpellation to the apologized Minister of Transport. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u127	Dear absent minister, who you are, and I understand, had to go to the Senate, as an MP elected for the Ústí Region, I closely monitor the traffic situation in my region. Today I dare to interpel you on the matter of repairing the Tyrš Bridge in Litoměřice. I find myself in Litoměřicka often, so I am fully familiar with the problem. Correction of this key bridge affects the traffic situation in the city, motorists waiting in the motorcade for more than an hour. Everyday columns are no longer unbearable, the citizens of Litoměřice often turn to me. That's why I'm asking you to put pressure on me to speed up this repair. I believe that the completion of the repairs could continue in full operation. I have now received an answer in writing in the foyer, so I am not insisting on further written answers for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u128	Thank you. I will now ask for the microphone of Mrs Nováková, who will intersect the absent Minister of Education. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u129	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear absent Madam Secretary. The problem I want to ask you is not your fault, but you are still responsible for the actions you are currently taking. I want to ask you what steps you are taking to address the 740 students, mostly graduates of universities, who, based on the constantly changing legislation on teaching workers, are trying to live up to what they should be studying. They are teachers, i.e. people with very low salaries, these people will pay 25,000 for every semester at Jan Amos Komenský University, i.e. For four years of study, we realize how many times that is and how many salaries they have to put into it. This problem is falling into two items. And that's one if we find a solution for students, respectively. teachers who are studying the much needed field of special pedagogy today, and the other problem is whether in any way we can restore trust, the atmosphere of trust in education. It's another thing we're swaying trust in. People get into a school that has an accredited field, i.e. We trust the accreditation committee, and they believe the school has an accredited field. Then, after some time, they find that the accreditation is withdrawn, and we have to trust the accreditation committee - but who are they supposed to trust? [[Madam, your two minutes are up.]] I know that there are currently attempts at a solution and I will be very anxious to see what steps you will take, Madam Secretary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u130	Thank you, prosit, next in line and this is Mr Seďa, who will intersect the absent Minister of Transport. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u131	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, the bag with the use or overuse of § 23 para. has broken somehow recently. 4 of the Public Procurement Act, when contracts are awarded in a negotiated procedure without publication. I am surprised that this is particularly happening at ministries managed by ministers for the ANO 2011 movement, but I do not want to talk about it. The announced announcement of the competition for the project manager of the big tender for the operation of the toll after 2019 is due to be announced just this way, for the specific company Deloitte. You have dealt with the comments of Transparency International by meeting and sending a letter, but doubts persist with both them and me. Minister, you state that the Ministry of Transport, as the contracting authority, has not caused a time urgency which allows for the award of this contract in a negotiated procedure without publication. I think otherwise, because the negotiations have been going on not only for a long time, but I don't even believe what you're saying that the Ministry doesn't have enough experts and enough strength to complete the process. So I want to ask you, Minister, how many employees your ministry has, including the organizations you run. I simply do not believe that there will be experts who would complete negotiations with Kapsch in favour of the Czech Republic. Then I want to ask you how you came to the conclusion that Deloitte alone has these experts. Isn't it more about the fact that this company cooperates with CGI, which represented and advised the state on toll issues? The last question I ask is the price of the contract. Are you really convinced, Minister, that the cost of CZK 52 million could not be reduced? I was not convinced by the justification that the contracting authority had annulled the decision to choose the most appropriate tender or that the price had been certified by an expert opinion. And let me ask you another question, which I had prepared for you. I would also like to ask you about the framework or rather non-Framework agreement in the context of the negotiated procedure without publication, when you claim that the project manager contract did not contain a solution to the preparation of the documentation for the synergies of the general contractor and that this contract is something other than the initial cancellation. What therefore specifically contains the agreement with Deloitte. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u132	I thank and ask all those who intersect to respect their limits. I don't want to jump in, but I have to follow the rules of procedure. Please, Mrs Aulická is next in line to intersect the absent Mrs Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u133	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Madam Secretary, I am interrogating you on the basis of a government resolution to move the decision on the correction of the limits to the ČSA mine. By a government resolution, you were tasked to prepare proposals for employment impact solutions related to the future reduction of brown coal mining, including concrete measures, by mid-2016. Unfortunately, I also have to say that, on the basis of that decision, North Energy must take an unkind decision and, thanks to the forced decline in mining, it will also reduce the number of employees in its company. However, it is clear that this step must also be taken by other established societies. Madam Secretary, I therefore ask you whether you are currently preparing measures that could respond immediately to the current situation in Mosteck, and whether you already have a rough idea of further steps to help reduce unemployment in the region today. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u134	I thank you and please take the next step, and this is Mrs Kovářová, who will intersect the absent Minister of Finance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u135	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am following up on yesterday's debate on the draft State Budget Act for next year, when I asked you a question about the construction of primary schools as one of the government's investment priorities. I'm afraid you didn't respond in a satisfactory way yesterday. In your speech, you have, above all, repeatedly defined yourself against Mr Kalousek, who, however, was not directly concerned with my question. So let me ask you one more time. Two days ago, after a long time, you launched another challenge in the subsidy programme for the construction of primary schools in the vicinity of large cities. In the current challenge, however, compared to the previous calls for funding, only projects whose state participation amounts to less than CZK 30 million will be eligible. At the same time, the participation of the State budget in the financing of the action amounts to a maximum of 70 per cent of the total costs. The maximum total cost of the subsidised action is therefore CZK 43 million. I ask: Is it possible to build a full-fledged school building for CZK 43 million? I don't think so. Is it possible to talk about the priority of this government in the case of the construction of primary schools? I would also like to ask what led the Ministry of Finance to change the conditions of this subsidy programme, on which analyses it is based and with which entities consulted this change, and what will the Ministry of Finance do next year if there is a justified requirement for the construction of the school building for, say, CZK 80 million? Thank you for your answer. And just so we're clear. I'm glad the subsidy program is going on, but changing the terms doesn't really seem happy. In conclusion, please, let us not drag colleague Kalousek into this matter again. Thank you for that, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u136	Thank you and please now to the microphone of Mr Hovorka, who is next drawn, and please give his interpellation to the absent Minister of Health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u137	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the media informed the director of the Royal Vinohrady University Hospital that the doctor must first ask the department of commerce to approve such treatment before the patient is treated. Patients are thus at risk of rejection or at least delayed initiation of vital treatment. It's often about cancer patients. However, the hospital director is not liable for the possible death of the patient or the medical damage caused by the delay in treatment, but is responsible for the primary caregiver. Thanks to the publication of contracts, we know that the VZP concluded this payment supplement with Vinohrady Hospital. Maximum remuneration for the diagnostic group multiple sclerosis for 2015 80 million crowns. Maximum remuneration for all medicines in all diagnostic groups except multiple sclerosis 177 million crowns. If the maximum remuneration is exceeded, the insurance undertaking shall apply a deduction of the amount of such overrun. So we see that VZP is transferring the financial risk of expensive care to the hospital. It must, in principle, accept an unlimited number of health insurance undertakings for expensive treatment if they choose it and need treatment. However, more costs than the amount contracted will not be paid by the insurance undertaking and are to the detriment of the hospital. Apparently that's why the hospital director gave such an order. [[17,00 hours]] I realize that in health care costs need to be managed, but the mechanisms described, which are also applied in other hospitals, are inappropriate and dangerous and cause the deaths of patients, were criticised by the courts and the media, and the doctors put them in an impossible situation. In doing so, the scope of the patient's entitlement to treatment is assessed by the insurance inspector under a law approved by Parliament. It certainly doesn't belong to the hospital department of commerce. The Ministry of Health supervises insurance companies, directs the faculty hospital and decides on the quality of care. So I ask you why health insurance companies carry the regulation of care, the risk of costing providers instead of checking the need for care through review physicians. [[Time warning]] How and according to what can directors of public hospitals directly controlled sign such disadvantageous contractual supplements and then issue internal guidelines to limit patient care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u138	Thank you. And once again, I'm asking you to really do all the interspersing to keep up with those two limits. I'm very uncomfortable jumping in, but there are others waiting. Please, Mrs Nytrová, who is next in line to intersect the absent Mrs. Secretary Marksová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u139	Madam Secretary, family support should be among the fundamental pillars of every state's policy. Thank you for your hard work at the Ministry of Family and you will continue to do. That birth rate declines not only in the Czech Republic, is a generally known fact. Yes, the birth rate is still dropping. But what is alarming is that fewer children are born to educated people, and more children often have less educated ones. I personally see this as a very important threat to our society. Another important fact is that young people are worried whether they would bear the expense of having another child, women have problems aligning family and work life. So far, our government has approved the birth certificate for the second child, the change has come into force this year. What further steps are planned by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to support the family, birth rate and its social stability and cohesion? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u140	I thank and please another in the order of the winnings, and that is Mr Šenfeld, who will interpel the Minister of Agriculture Jurečka, whom I do not see here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u141	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister absent, there are currently sales of gardening plots owned by the State. Through the State Land Office pursuant to the provisions of Law No. 503/2012 Sb. at the usual price, as stated in the provisions of the Act or in the provisions of Section 14 para. 1 of the cited law, individual users of gardens. The situation in question affects approximately 144,000. persons who are registered gardeners in the territory of the Czech Republic. [[Minister Jurečka enters the hall.]] On what basis is the methodology for selling garden plots to their users based on the fact that, notwithstanding taking into account the locality's territorial plan, the increase of the property's value by the user's own hard work is proceeding according to the disproportionately increased price of the building plot, exceeding the market price at the given place and time? The comparison with the agricultural land is a price which is also up to 40 times higher than the agricultural land. For the sale, where the State Land Office is acting as head office, the method and parameters of the sale are determined by the Methodological Guidelines of the State Land Office No. 3/2014 of 20. 3. 2014 with the designated scheme for the sale of garden parcels with reference to the limit date of applications submitted at 31. 12. I ask why it is governed by civil law and this such sale interferes in a private way when, in the light of the regulatory arrangements, it should be governed by administrative procedures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I'll ask the Minister for a reaction. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, good afternoon. In response to the interpelation regarding the sale of garden plots, allow me to state the following. The first question. The legal rules for the sale of state land in garden or cottage settlements are twofold, depending on the time of the request for sale. If the basic organization of the Czech Gardening Union has submitted a request by 31 at the latest. 12. 2012 is governed by the rules of the land now repealed by Act No. 95/1999 Coll., on the conditions for the transfer of agricultural and forest land from State ownership to other persons. Law No 95/1999 Coll., as amended, allowed the transfer of land in garden or cottage settlements either at a basic price according to bonitized soil ecological units increased by a surcharge, or, if the land was not credited, at an average price fixed for individual cadastral territories increased by a premium. Law No 503/2012 Sb., as amended, i.e. the Act on the State Land Office, however, in this respect it laid down with effect from 1. 1. 2013 totally different rules for determining the price of the land transferred. According to the provisions of Article 14 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. According to Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, the land with which the State Land Office is competent to manage is transferred at the usual price, unless otherwise specified in other parts of this Act. At the same time, there is a reference to Law No. 151/1997 Coll., on property valuation, as amended, and on the valuation decree of the Ministry of Finance No. 3/2008 Coll., as amended. The valuations of the transferred land are carried out for the State Land Office by experts appointed by the Court of Economy, Price Sector and Estimates, property valuation, in a manner consistent with the relevant legislation. The opposition to the method of valuation of the land according to § 14 of the Act on the State Land Office is merely to add that the transfer of the land according to § 10 para. 3 The Law on the State Land Office is a law, not an obligation, provided that all legal conditions for the buyer are fulfilled. The Act on the State Land Office does not contain in its transitional provisions the possibility of completing the processing of transfers to users of garden and cottage settlements. Transitional provisions of that legislation only in Section 22 (2) (a) 11 states: Applications pursuant to § 10 para. 3 lodged on 31. 12. After that date, 2013 shall be dealt with under this Act, in its effective version, until 31. 12. 2013. The Act on the State Land Office since 1. 1. 2013 also provided for the transfer in accordance with § 10 para. 3 price usual. In practice, this means that the applications submitted pursuant to Law No. 95/1999 Coll., on the sale of land not settled until 31. 12. 2012, after 1. 1. 2013 could no longer be completed. Since the Act on the State Land Office does not allow this, it does not address the cases under consideration. In the current legislative state, it is not possible to transfer land to users of garden or cottage settlements at a price other than the usual. As regards the frequency of the persons concerned, it should be noted that a large number of gardeners' applications have already been completed by carrying out transfers of the required land. Large parts of the garden settlements have already been transferred to the end of 2012, only applicants remain at exposed regional workplaces in northern Bohemia and northern Moravia. Worked-out transfers under the new law are being completed. This is not a whole member base of the Czech Gardening Union, but a certain balance. Members of the Czech Garden Association manage both their own land and rented from private owners or municipalities. The second question. In the present case, the State Land Office acts as an authority of state, i.e. it treats the property of the State, thus exercising the right to the owner. The disposition of the assets entrusted cannot then be regarded as the exercise of public authority. The State Land Office is not in a position of power here, but is one of the parties to the contractual relationship. When selling, the State Land Office acts as the owner of the State, i.e. it is free to decide what to do with its property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u144	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u145	Minister, thank you for your answer. You said that, under the current legislative state, there is no other way than at the usual price, so I'm asking if it is morally right for them to buy such a price at the usual price, that is, in the price of the property. I said it's up to 40 times the price of comparable agricultural land. So if you admit that it's probably wrong, if you're willing to initiate a change of law to make this sale more favorable for gardeners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u146	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u147	I think the issue is quite complex in the spirit that we could theoretically consider other conditions for selling to gardeners who run a garden colony. However, in a situation where it would have to be assumed that the land would not really become the subject of some speculation in the future and that then whoever buys the land from the State and the State Land Office would not, in five or ten years, create a plot of construction, and thus use some advantage that the State would proceed to this in a different way precisely by not selling it at the usual price. I am unable to give you a clear opinion today on how to set this system up. We can have a debate about this. We are also offering a rather rare opportunity because yesterday the amendment to the Act on the State Land Office was discussed here at first reading. I think it would be good if, for example, you have some particular incentive to set this up, to have a debate on it and to prepare for the negotiations of the Committee on Agriculture and, where appropriate, to try to make a change in the second reading under the amendment. So much for this moment I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u148	Thank you. Now, please, next in line, and that is Mrs Maxová, who will intersect the absent Secretary Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Two years have passed since the amendment to the Act on Social Protection for Children, it has clearly shown that the financing of these facilities is at the limit of operational capacity. The main problem is that the State contribution is linked to children physically located in establishments. In this case, when it is necessary to be ready to receive a child, it is necessary to change the funding to the capacity of the establishment. Then the device would be stable, especially in the personnel area, which is very important for the good functioning of the ZDVOPs. The state contribution per child is now set at CZK 22,800 per month. I therefore believe that it would be ideal to put an amount of 20,000 per month on the bed in case of funding for the capacity of the facility, with an additional amount of CZK 200 per day in the presence of the child. This model would be similar to the financing of foster care for a transitional period when a foster child receives a monthly sum of CZK 20,000, regardless of whether he has a child or is not in his care, and the child's needs then the monthly amount according to the child's age from 4.5,000 to 6 600. Furthermore, ZDVOP is obliged to have a single-time social worker for ten children in establishments, which is completely unnecessary. This obligation is not in other establishments such as children's homes or nursing homes. There is also a deduction of the state contribution to the child in the absence of the child in the establishment if he is outside the facility for two or more days. As a result of summer holidays, for example, the total public contribution for children decreased by 3 million. koruna u FOD. Still, they have to pay employees, rents, energy, etc. Last but not least, they are a problem of long-term pass, where unfortunately, long awaits the final decision of the court, and the child is included in the capacity of the ZDVOP. I therefore ask, Madam Secretary, if you are planning to change the financing of this service for children in ZDVOP facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u150	Thank you. Now, please, next in line, is Mr Beznoska, who I do not see here, so his application is forfeit. The next is Mrs Chalánková, who is not here either. So, Mrs Nytrová, who will interpel the present Minister of Culture. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u151	Dear Minister, I was approached by the deputy mayor of Frýdek-Místek with a request to increase the subsidy funds of the Ministry of Culture for the restoration of the monument fund. According to his statement, which I fully agree with - I quote: "The central list of the monument fund records over 40,000 properties in the Czech Republic and still does not reach a state of construction that corresponds to their importance and values, countless of them are still under existential threat after 25 years. On the basis of the model calculation, the amount of 318 billion would be needed to repair all the monuments requiring partial or complete reconstruction. koruna." Dear Minister, is the Ministry of Culture able to increase funds to finance the restoration of monuments that are not national cultural monuments or cultural monuments of UNESCO?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u152	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u153	Thank you. Madam President, my colleague, my colleague and colleagues, in support of the reconstruction of typical so-called smaller cultural monuments, the 2008 programme was established to promote the restoration of cultural monuments through municipalities with extended scope. This programme is intended for the restoration of real estate cultural monuments, which are located outside the sightseeing reserves and sightseeing zones, are not national cultural monuments and are not owned by the Czech Republic. The programme is implemented in two rounds and the relevant municipality with extended scope can choose in which round it will participate and submit the collected applications. The Ministry of Culture shall determine, for municipalities with extended application of the amount of financial quotas on the basis of the number of monuments in the territory concerned, taking into account their technical condition. Small cultural monuments such as chapels, God's torment, as well as other cultural monuments are being repaired as part of this programme. The contribution can reach up to 90 percent of the total cost of restoration of the monument, with a minimum contribution of CZK 50,000. The applicant - the owner of the cultural monument requests the grant of a contribution or inclusion in the programme through the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope. The deadline for submitting an application to the municipal authorities for the first round is 28 February, for the second round is 30 April of the relevant calendar year. The list of compulsory documents is given on the application form. The municipality then makes a selection, recommends the events to be included in the programme and presents them within the specified deadlines of the Ministry of Culture, which, after discussing the proposal in the relevant ministry commission, leads proceedings to provide a contribution to the restoration of a particular cultural monument. For your information, I will indicate the amount of funds in the approved budget with an overview from 2011. In 2011, 142,5 million were earmarked for this programme. CZK, in 2012 150 million, in 2013 100 million, in 2014 125 million, this year 140 million. And for next year, it's estimated to be 154 miles. Crowns. This means that we are succeeding in keeping the trend slightly increasing. Of course, I understand that the amount that has been said here would be ideal, but unfortunately we have to stick to the real possibilities, but I consider it very important, and it is this programme, which is intended for so-called small cultural monuments, which are not on a list, that is a great help for the cultural landscape of the village to bloom as it should, and the monuments there have their inalienable place. So thank you for your interest and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u154	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member - she does not want to ask an additional question. Thank you. The next in line is Mr Seďa, who will interpel the present Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u155	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, on 16 September of this year I approached you about the free transfer of land in the Kunovský les area in Kunovice, which is owned by the Forests of the Czech Republic, s. p. Since I have not received an answer from you to this day, I am taking this opportunity to ask you to intervene in favour of the city of Uherské Hradiště, which, on the basis of the lease agreement of 1999, uses a smaller part of this forest as a forest park for the rest and recreation of the citizens of the city. In the same matter, I turned to the Prime Minister and the Director of the Czech Forest State Company. I am convinced that the free transfer of the forest park to the city of Uherské Hradiště would be the best solution for future protection and investment in this part of Kunovský lesa. The City Council expressed its interest in this transfer by its resolution No. 327/18/City Council 2015 of 24 September this year and the December city council will also discuss the transfer. [[17.20 hours]] For the above reasons, I ask, Minister, if you see the real possibility of this transfer to the city. I must confess that I was not very pleased with your Mr. CEO of the Forests of the Czech Republic's reply because they do not want to accept the transfer of land to the city. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u156	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u157	Thank you. Good afternoon again. I dare to answer. I understand that you were not pleased with the answer from the Director-General, but the situation is given by the State Enterprise Act, where there is a relatively different situation, for example the mayors of the municipalities know the approach of the State Land Office, where it is possible to transfer property to cities and municipalities if it is in the public interest. In the case of the State Enterprise Act, which must be governed by the CEO of the Forests of the Czech Republic, if he should transfer some property, he must declare the property unnecessary. So, at this point in time, from the perspective of the legislation thus defined, the Director-General cannot carry out any free transfer or transfer for a symbolic amount, but he could only make the exchange of these forest parcels for other land or, if so, the sale at a full market price, and even this is complicated, because he would still have to declare this property unnecessary for a state enterprise. However, what we perceive is that really from cities and municipalities, municipal authorities, there are a lot of incentives that they would like to take over some land under communication, some property that may not be quite important for the operation of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic, and we would like to get rid of these property somewhere, say, and we are preparing and looking for a way to make this possible within the framework of the amendment of the State Enterprise Act, and then the Director-General would be able to implement such transfers for the benefit of cities and municipalities. That's probably the answer I can give you at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u158	Thank you. The Member shall ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u159	Thank you, Minister. It's a little more complicated than that. I forgot to mention that there is a Government resolution of 710 out of 18. 9. 2013, which has actually done a free transfer of this Kunovský Forest all over the South Moravian Region. The problem is that the resolution is still valid. I understand that the Act on a state enterprise does not allow free transfers etc., which means that the Forests of the Czech Republic can, for example, propose a shift of some forests owned by the city. That's also the solution. I can assure you that this is a public interest because the forest park serves for the rest of the city's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u160	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u161	I can't deny it's public interest. Here is the problem with the definition that the property is unnecessary for the activities of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic. I know that government resolution. It's an official government resolution, if I'm not mistaken. From the point of view of our lawyers - they say that this government resolution is against the law and it is very problematic to implement it. We are going to revise this resolution because here is the matter of transferring the land to individual fields for forest schools. In this matter, I have now asked and will address individual schools and government to tell me how many students are studying in these schools and how many have been in the last five years because we have three traditional historical forestry schools. And now the question is whether we want to continue to expand and support the emergence and consolidation of new forestry schools following the fact that there is clearly no increase in the number of people who would find employment in this field, so that we do not devalue the level of education at the traditional schools that we have here. It is also the case of Bzenc and Hranice in the area of Moravia, so here I really want to approach this very carefully and I will communicate with the governorship.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u162	Thank you. I now ask Mr Ondráček to present his intervention, if he wishes to do so, to the absent Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear absent Minister, in the past interpellations, I said I would not intersect anyone who doesn't go to work. Later I found out that in the morning noise I overheard your apology, and therefore I apologize for attacking you like this. You've been duly excused from the previous interpellation. I didn't hear your apology this morning, so I applied to the interpellings. But your ministry has told me that you have been excused since Tuesday, so interpelation again for someone who is absent is almost pointless, so now I would withdraw the interview in order 33. But while I'm at the speaker's desk, I'm still going to ask you - I wanted to know what the situation in the Islamic State is, what the consequences are of the air force's intervention or the Russian Federation's intervention on the Islamic State itself. I suppose when you get to that, you'll have up-to-date information, and I'd like you to hand it to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u164	Thank you. Next is Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, who will intersect the absent minister Jan Mládek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u165	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, I am interrogating you today because of the Government's resolution to move the decision on coal mining limits to the ČSA mine. As I said in the interview to Prime Minister Sobotka, the government had, of course, many technical papers to decide on. Unfortunately, after a thorough study, many of the information mentioned was not based on the truth or was very misrepresenting. There is therefore a great and real concern about the real impact of the decision to postpone the correction of the limits at the ČSA mine. So, Minister, I ask you how you want to secure coal for 14 gigajoules for heat plants when they are currently consuming between 7 and 8 miles. tons of coal and quarrying Bílina will fall to 8 million. tonnes of coal after 2025 and gradually up to 4 to 5 million. tonnes of coal per year. Is it true that it is expected to unplug warm rooms prematurely? For example, the Trmice Warmhouse in Ústí n. Labem in 2025. Will Ústí be without heat in ten years? Do you confirm that the implementation of the measures proposed in the state energy concept will be evaluated annually? Do you agree to burn low-quality brown coal from Germany and Poland? What do you intend to do in this sense to protect the health of citizens? As you can see in the current geopolitical situation, this means ensuring security of energy supply from the point of view that our own raw materials cease to benefit, especially brown coal and black coal. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u166	I thank and please next in line and this is Mr Bendl, who will intersect the absent Minister of Education. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u167	Thank you for the floor. The esteemed absent Minister of Education, by your inconsiderate acceptance of the recommendations of the Accreditation Commission, by which you have decided to withdraw the accreditation of Jan Amos Komenský University, you have put 700 teachers into the existential uncertainty. You didn't think about the fact that by collecting accreditation, you'd get rid of the student's status, so it's not easy for these teachers to go to other schools. First of all. Secondly, there won't be enough space and space for these students, or I'll say former students to graduate. I would like to address you with the question of what you did with your own mistake at the Ministry of Education, because it had a fairly simple solution. You could have removed the accreditation of the school and had those who were there completed under some professional supervision of the other universities. By not doing so, you have made life unnecessarily difficult for people studying at UJAK. Please, Madam Secretary, I hope you will answer me in writing as to how you will deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u168	Thank you and please another winner, and that is Mrs Maxová, who will intersect the absent minister of health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u169	Thank you. Minister, I would like to quote your speech from the last hearing of Act No. 48, on public health insurance, and my interpelation: Yes, I am making a commitment here that we are ready for this debate on voluntary participation, that we are ready to discuss this matter in the professional forum and possibly to identify those medical devices where it will not be a problem. And before the end of the year, the Amendment to Law 48 is to be reopened, and then I think we can do this. I have already commissioned the Ministry of Health's Legal Department to prepare for me an analysis of what options are there, what risks are there, so that the patient is not exposed to the fact that he will be forced to volunteer for involuntary participation. Of course, I will inform the Chamber of Deputies about the results of this analysis. And so I ask you, Minister, first of all, how this promise of yours evolves, whether any steps have already been taken to help our patients by introducing voluntary participation. Secondly, I ask you to provide the results of this analysis, whose conclusions should have been known according to your words by the end of August of this year. And thirdly, when an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act will be submitted, where voluntary participation will be included, because we have almost the end of October and the end of the year is coming to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u170	I thank and please another drawn in order and that is Mrs Pěnčíková, who will interpel the present Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u171	Hello, Minister. At the end of March, selection procedures for agrarian diplomats were concluded with the fact that they were to undergo pre-exit training at the Ministry of Agriculture during May and June. By autumn, they were to be sent to Russia, China, Saudi Arabia and Serbia. Since information in the press is very steep, but farmers are interested in agrarian diplomats, I therefore ask which countries are already occupied, on the basis of which these countries have been selected and whether there is any analysis of possible volumes of trades or what expectations are actually from the work of these diplomats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u172	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u173	Thank you, Madam President. The honourable Member, with regard to agricultural agrarian diplomats, was one of the steps to promote the Ministry of Agriculture's pro-export activities. Out of the five positions that have been competed, these diplomats are now in four destinations during the autumn - Russia, Serbia, Saudi Arabia and China, with the fact that in the case of Ukraine, which is also to be filled, eventually the candidate who won, could not enter for any other reason, so there will be a new tender. And as part of supporting other pro-export activities, at the end of last year the increase was approved by two other agricultural diplomats next year, so there should be seven of them overall. That means we're still preparing a contest for three agricultural diplomats. With regard to their location, where they will be headed and which countries will be this priority, this has been determined on the basis of analyses of both the pro-export options of those countries, that is to say, Russia, Ukraine as important partners outside the Union, where, despite a situation that is not entirely simple today, trade is very interesting to Russia. We have to realise that not only commodities that are forbidden to export today, so there are a lot of other and technological units in the agricultural sector. We are counting on Ukraine as a market that should develop further after the crisis has been overcome. Serbia has been identified as an important post-Yugoslavian country, which is meant to represent not only the Serbian market, but the agrarian diplomat Pavel Svoboda should act more or less also for the surrounding countries, so this destination has therefore been chosen with a follow-up to the fact that we want to build our positions for our exporters, even considering that these countries should join the EU in the next few years. As far as Saudi Arabia is concerned, this country was chosen from the perspective of covering, say, the specifics of the Arab market, where historically we were successful in exporting certain dairy products, cheeses, etc. This region was elected on the basis of analyses. And China has also been chosen as a market that should develop prospectively. There's probably no reason to doubt the size and potential of the market. It was chosen on the basis of data from, say, the list of countries for export volumes from the Czech Republic, as well as after a discussion with the Agricultural and Food and Economic Chamber, where they also see potential from their members and Czech companies where they would like to develop. So based on this, we decided for these five destinations. The other two destinations that we will want to complete in the course of next year are still the subject of negotiations, but it should be decided by the end of November. I guess that's the point. The cost is about 3.5 miles. CZK a year for an agrarian diplomat. We carry them as the Department of Agriculture, even though these diplomats are transferred for service abroad, their spreadsheets, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we finance them, and we transfer the money to the ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u174	Thank you, Minister. Madam, do you want to...? You don't want to ask the follow-up question. At this point, I must announce that Mrs Kovářová withdraws her remaining intervention, Mr Ondráček and Mr Bendl withdraws his remaining intervention. So at this point, please, Mr Holeček, whom I do not see here, so his interpellation is failing, and please, Mrs Maxová, who will interpel Mrs Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u175	Madam Secretary, the care allowance should have been graduated from 1. 6. 2016. Since the beginning of this year, the National Council of Disabilities has repeatedly negotiated an increase in this contribution. At the last meeting, which took place on 22 July this year, with the participation of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, myself and you personally, the Minister, the Prime Minister, Mr Sobotka, has tasked you to prepare a variant law to increase your contribution to care, either twice 5% or once 10 %. This means, in principle, everyone said that they agreed to increase their care allowance, but it did not appear in the draft budget. I therefore ask, Madam Secretary, why it did not appear in the budget, because your response to the National Council of Disabilities press conference is completely unprofessional. There's nothing easier than throwing everything at the Treasury, even if it's not true at all. The Minister agreed to increase the care allowance twice by 5%. So when I was looking for why this amount didn't actually appear in your chapter's budget, I found out that you didn't have time to prepare legislation to reflect this amount in the budget. That is why I ask you, Minister: Was the required legislation prepared so could this increase be reflected in your chapter? And what you've done to increase your care allowance since actually the last appointment 22. 7. 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u176	I thank and please next in line and that is Mr Seďa, who will intersect the absent minister of the environment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u177	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, according to public information, Czech environmental inspection has no idea where tens of thousands of tons of hazardous waste have gone. These supposedly disappeared from the records, yet the companies that produced these waste have it in paper order. However, there is no evidence of the actual disposal of these hazardous waste. Even the director of the Czech Environmental Inspection claims that this is either a serious illegal activity at the expense of the environment or a huge tax fraud. That is why I would like to ask, Minister, if you have any further information on this issue, whether you are of the same opinion as the Director of the Inspection, or if you do not think that this is a systemic error in the system of registering hazardous waste in our country. I ask this in particular from the point of view of recent explosions of ammunition in Vrbětice, where doubts were found in control mechanisms as well as their own records or legislation. Furthermore, Minister, I would like to ask whether there is also a problem in the personnel sub-dimension of Czech environmental inspection inspectors, which is said to be only 70. And my second question is whether your ministry or your inspection cooperates with the Ministry of Finance to solve this problem or whether you cooperate with other departments. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u178	I thank you, and now I ask Mrs Maxová to read her interpellation to the absent Minister of Education. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u179	Dear Minister, last year we asked why the grant development programme for 2015 The increase in the remuneration of regional education workers in 2015 concerns only public schools. I assumed that this would not happen this year and that the Ministry of Education would learn from last year's mistake. But unfortunately, we are facing the same problem as last year. At your ministry, your worker willingly, which I very much and with gratitude, explained why this happened. If I understand correctly, in short: there is no money available for - technically speaking - private sector wages and only money available for so-called salaries, which include the public sector or the public sector. State. Even if I am able to understand this fact, can you explain to me what steps you have taken to avoid this situation, who you have negotiated with, what schools you have addressed, and how you have agreed with them on some other option? How will you address this situation in order to give all schools, both state and private, a chance for 2016 to increase the remuneration of workers in regional education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-006-206.u180	Thank you. That was the last of the interpelations because the other interpelations were withdrawn. I am of the opinion that we have closed the oral questioning for today's meeting. Before I interrupt the meeting, allow me to load Mr Berkovec's apology, which apologizes for tomorrow's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 9 to 14 o'clock. At this point, I am interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I will see you tomorrow at 9 a.m., when we will proceed according to the approved programme.
