ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President of the Government - because I do not see another member of the government here - I am opening the second day of the adjourned 35th session of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. I'm asking you all to sign up with ID cards, or tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. I am telling you that for reasons of employment, Jan Bartošek for reasons of work, Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová for personal reasons, Jiří Běhounek for Koubek of work, Ondřej Benešík is on a foreign trip, Zdeněk Bezecný for Matušovská of work, Jan Birke for no reason, Vlasta Bohdalová for family reasons, Milan Brázdil for reasons of work, Marek Černoch for Vladimír of foreign travel, Pavel Čihák - personal Komárek, Ivana Dobešová for Michal of work, Petr Fiala for 15 hours for Kučera of work, Radim Fiala for whole day for Hnyková of work, Ivan Jakubčík is on a foreign journey as well as Vice-President Petr Gazdík, Milada Halíková for reasons of work, Pavel koníček for Adam of work, until 18 hours for reasons of work Leoš Hovorka, for Mihola of work, for Igor of work, Radim Fiala for Adam of Jan Hamáček of Helena Langšádlová of Lobkowicz, Jaroslav Koučík's. Furthermore they apologize to Alena Nohavová for work reasons, Nina Nováková is on a foreign trip, until 17:00 Josef Novotný for work reasons, for the whole day Tomio Okamura for work reasons, Jana Pastuchová for work reasons, Adam Rykala for personal reasons, Jan Sedláček for personal reasons, Marta Semelová for work reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg for work reasons, Jiří Skalickýý for work reasons, without stating the reason Bohuslav Svoboda, on a foreign trip is Lubomír Toufar, Karel Tureček for work reasons, Jiří Valenta for work reasons as well as Pavel Volčík, for health reasons Josef Vondrášek and for work reasons Rostislav Vyzula. These are the MPs. Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek will apologize from the members of the government from 16.30, for reasons of work Richard Brabec, Jiří Dienstbier, for reasons of foreign travel Daniel Herman, for reasons of employment Milan Chovanec, Michaela Marksová, for reasons of employment Jan Mládek, for reasons of employment Svatopluk Němeček, until 16.30 for reasons of employment Robert Pelikán, for reasons of employment Karla Šlechtová, Dan Ťok, Kateřina Valachová and for foreign travel is Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Mr Jeroný Tejc has a replacement card number 13. We will now deal with the items under the approved agenda. We will proceed to point 3, but before I do, I ask if anyone has a proposal for a change at the moment. [[There is a notice that proposals for changing the program cannot be made.]] I know. I will read the apologies of Jaroslav Holík and Minister Marian Jurečka. Since we can't change the program - I was just testing you to see if you're paying attention enough, since there's so little of us here - we're going to be dealing with point 3. The Deputy Prime Minister has arrived, so according to the Rules of Procedure, we have all the conditions met. Point number 3 is
