ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u1	62. Government bill on biocidal products and active substances and amending certain related laws (Biocide Act) /German press 589/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the Minister of Health will present the proposal to Svatopluk Němeček. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the submitted Government proposal for a law on biocidal products and active substances and on the amendment of certain related laws. To imagine, let me first state what biocidal products are. Biocides are usually chemical mixtures designed to destroy, reduce growth or repell harmful organisms in order to protect human health. They are disinfectants, preservatives, rodenticide products and the like. The main objective of the draft law presented is the implementation of Regulation No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, which regulates a significant part of the obligations in the field of making biocidal products available on the market. As a result of the adoption of a directly applicable Union regulation, it is necessary to remove duplications and deviations in the Czech legal order and to establish only such legislation that will allow its smooth application and linking to national legislation. It is therefore necessary to repeal the existing Biocide Act and, in the new Act, to lay down, in particular, the status of state authorities, the powers of administrations in the exercise of state administration and the penalties for infringements of the obligations laid down in the Biocide Regulation. The material went through a proper commentary procedure and was subsequently approved by the government on 31 August 2015. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you will support this bill during today's discussion, as it is basically a technical regulation that will contribute to the compliance of the Czech rule of law with the current legislation of the European Union in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also make a few comments as rapporteur for this press. The purpose of the Government Act is to ensure the implementation of a directly applicable European Union regulation on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products. The Biocide Regulation establishes the same conditions across the European Union for the making available on the market of biocidal products, anchors the principles of approval of active substances and authorisation of biocidal products, in general terms and conditions of their use. At the same time, it replaces the original 1998 Directive, which was implemented in various ways into the legal systems of each Member State. This resulted in a different approach to the application of European Union law and complications in the submission of applications for authorisation of biocidal products across the European Union. In addition to harmonization, the Biocide Regulation also brings new instruments, new tools for product authorisation. In addition to the original concept of national authorisation and, where appropriate, mutual recognition of national authorisation in another Member State, it shall re-establish a uniform Union authorisation allowing the applicant to supply the product thus authorised to all Member States of the European Union. In addition, the procedure for obtaining authorisation of an already authorised product, or the introduction of a so-called biocidal product category, which may include many variants with a different composition falling within the authorised concentration limit, is significantly simplified. The Biocide Regulation entrusts the establishment of certain rights and obligations at Member State level. These are, in particular, the provisions of the competent authorities responsible for implementing this Regulation, i.e. State authorities ensuring the assessment of the risks of authorised products, the exercise of market surveillance in biocidal products and the provisions of the transitional period regime where such biocidal products containing non-approved active substances are made available on the market. Their approval process is under the so-called work programme review regime. The government chose the way to introduce a new law instead of amending the original law, which implemented the original directive. The amendment would be easier from a technical point of view, certainly, but there would have been a very inconspicuous regulation, because most substantive regulation would have to be deleted. In the distribution of competences between state authorities, the competence law was respected and, at the same time, the division of competences was treated in the same way as it was in the previous legislation. The competent authority responsible for the European Union is the Ministry of Health, which cooperates in the authorisation process of biocidal products or in the preparation of an evaluation report for the approval of an active substance with the environmental and agricultural departments, while the Ministry of Health fully respects the professional assessment of the applications submitted. Their opinions are adopted by the Ministry of Health in the form of binding opinions. At the same time, the Government's proposal defines more precisely the individual obligations of participating ministries and removes the identified shortcomings from the previous adjustment in practice. [[9.40 hours]] An important chapter is the setting of fees for official and professional activities. The current legislation was set only for the collection of administrative fees, which were the income of the state budget. The reimbursement of the administrative fee paid was possible only and exclusively in cases defined by the Act on Administrative Charges. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Member States are required to return the unused part of the fee paid to the applicant by the Biocide Regulation. With regard to the system for the collection of administrative fees, as set by the Act on Administrative Charges, it is not possible to refund the proportional part of the administrative fee paid. The charging system was therefore divided into the collection of administrative fees for the submission of the application itself and the collection of fees for the performance of professional activities. The amount of professional fees will be directly proportional to the amount of time spent by the experts examining the application submitted. The amount of the rate for professional activities, including the withdrawal of advances for such operations, shall be determined by the Ministry of Health by implementing legislation. The working draft implementing regulation is annexed to this government bill. There's a lot of talk about financial burdens for entrepreneurs. The financial burden for entrepreneurs in the case of authorisation of biocidal products and approval of active substances can be divided into three levels. The first level is the costs of the submitted dossier itself, i.e. the studies themselves and the risk assessment report. The costs associated with the acquisition of documentation will in most cases account for the largest share of the total costs associated with the aforementioned operations. The second level is the fees paid to the Ministry of Health for administrative and professional tasks. The third level is the fees paid to the European Chemicals Agency, which may in some cases exceed the costs associated with the acquisition of documentation and significantly exceed the costs of professional activities provided by the Ministry of Health. A significant interest from interest associations and industry and trade departments was aroused by the proposal to set up a system of national charges. Most arguments aimed at the need to introduce support for small and medium-sized enterprises, also in the form of reduced fees at national level. Despite the fact that there is legal support in the Biocide Regulation itself, the Ministry of Health rejects this procedure. There are several reasons for this attitude. The authorisation system for biocidal products provides that for the legal supply of the product to the market, the applicant must obtain a first authorisation in any Member State which includes carrying out a hazard assessment and risks to the use of such a product. It may take up to 15 months from the submission of the application to obtain the first authorisation in accordance with the dates of the Regulations in question. Delivery in other Member States of the European Union is possible only on the basis of the so-called mutual recognition, i.e. accelerated and simplified clearance procedures. This includes a routine check of the initial evaluation and adaptation to national specific conditions. A negative example can be the charging system in the UK, which is valid until approximately 2013, when the first permit was charged 2,000. Pounds. The situation has shown that many companies in the UK have requested authorisation, which do not actually supply products on the market and whose interest is the markets of other Member States. The reason for the application was merely an effort to obtain the first authorisation. For comparison, there was a fee of 200 thousand in the Czech Republic. Crowns. The competent authorities of the United Kingdom have by far received the largest number of applications within two years, around 600, many of which have not been closed even after four years of receipt of the request. The European Commission has carried out investigations into the level of the fees set in each Member State. It turns out that neither of the Member States has benefited from a reduction in the fee for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. If this were to happen to the Czech Republic, it is very likely that a similar surge of requests from business entities from all over the European Union will also be received by the Ministry of Health. But its organisational structure and available human resources cannot cope with such a surge of requests. A seemingly successful attempt to secure support for Czech, quotation marks, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and to reduce the fee to a minimum, which may amount to a quarter to a third in total costs, may result in a hopeless situation for the Ministry of Health. The state budget will then bear the costs of supporting not only Czech small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but also small and medium-sized entrepreneurs of other Member States. All the more so, it is practically impossible to define a Czech business company. It is not clear whether it should be a company established in the Czech Republic or owned exclusively by Czech capital and the like. In the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry of Health sought to outline the actual costs associated with the authorisation of four forms of biocidal products, when the complexity was set according to the number of active substances contained and the quality of the documentation submitted. As an estimate of diligence, it is based on the experience of the State Health Institute. It performs a risk assessment for the Ministry of Health not only for applications and authorisations of biocidal products, but also for plant protection products. The risk assessment costs range from 70 to 350 thousand. Crowns. The current fee is 200 thousand without distinction. Crowns. For comparison, the fee system in the Czech Republic for the authorisation of the plant protection product can be stated, which are often similar products. The administrative fee provided for in the Decree is set at a fee of 278 thousand for the authorisation of the plant protection product. Furthermore, payments are charged for professional activities directly by the State Health Institute according to the performed operations, usually from 80 to 250 thousand. Crowns. The costs of the authorisation of the plant protection product range from 350 to 530 thousand. Crowns. Further comparisons can be made with medical devices. Medical resources are newly under the jurisdiction of the State Institute for Drug Control, which is entitled to charge in accordance with the decree CZK 1,800 per hour for the development of expert opinions and opinions. Despite these outlined problems I recommend The Chamber of Deputies will release the law into second reading and discuss some of the problems and uncertainties outlined in the Committee on Health. At the same time, I would like to update my speech here in a debate where I would like to ask some questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u5	Thank you, Madame. Please take a seat at the news desk. I am opening a general debate in which I have one application so far - Mr Jiří Skalický. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u6	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, colleagues, a few brief comments on the amendment to the Biocide Act. In short, it could be said that this amendment to the law has increased consumer protection against the current situation, or, let us say, consumer protection in the first place. The current Act No. 120/2002 Coll., which is currently in force, is no longer in line with the current regulation of the European Union, or the reaction of this amendment is logical. The new regulation, as has already been said here in various variants, better defines the status of state authorities, their scope and, in particular, specifies sanctions for infringements of obligations in relation to biocidal products. What I think is important is that it introduces new obligations on entrepreneurs and legal entities when entering the product, so-called authorisation when entering the market, then throughout the European Union, and defines better and increases the level of administrative fees associated with this entry into the market. On the other hand, it must be said that the possibility of authorisation is introduced here. a simplified procedure in trade between the countries of the European Union, which, at the time the product comes on the market in one country, can then get substantially better into other countries of the European Union and at lower financial costs. What I consider important and what has not yet been done here is to realize how this amendment will affect Czech companies and the biocidal products market in our Republic. It is good to know that around 8,000 products are currently registered here, of which about 4,000 products are actually sold, produced and available on the market. However, this figure is still very high and it can be expected that after the introduction of this amendment it will fall by approximately 40 to 50 per cent. At the same time, there are between 35 and 50 companies in the Czech Republic without business individuals, which are significantly larger quantities, which will be affected by the amendment of this law and which will have to deal with the new registration process and with the new rules. My colleague Marková also mentioned the issue of the amount of administrative fees. Administrative fees increase from existing rates up to CZK 430,000, but it is according to the hourly rate and it is the maximum amount that can be demanded when the product enters the Czech market. So this is significantly higher than the current state of affairs, so some companies may have a problem with it, say, or discuss whether the amount could not be lower, and we can therefore expect a discussion on the health committee's grounds. However, on the other hand, it is good to realize that in countries around us such as Austria, Germany, these amounts exceed the value of one million crowns, converted into our money. So I'm talking about so-called. first permit on entry anywhere in the country of the European Union. Then, as I was saying, the journey from the original country to the others is much easier. Since the amendments to this law involved both the Ministry of Health as a guarantee, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment, I initially thought that it would be necessary to order the relevant committees to discuss it, but in the end we agreed that it is absolutely meaningful that this law should be discussed on the ground of the Health Committee, where it belongs from the point of view of guarantee and from the point of view of competence, and therefore I recommend that this amendment be passed on to the second reading and ordered by the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is applying. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u8	Thank you for the floor. In addition to my report, I would like to ask a few questions, which I would like to discuss afterwards on the Health Committee, because these are issues that will certainly need more preparation. In acquainting with the bill, I realized how much it mattered that we had enough quality experts with lifelong education and that they would be properly paid for their work. Then, of course, some other questions arise: What is the difference between the registration of chemical medicinal products and the authorisation of biocidal products? What is the difference between the evaluation of chemical medicinal products and the evaluation of biocidal products? Why is the phrase in the law "If for capacitive reasons it was not possible to evaluate the request," why is the sentence there? How is it ensured that such a situation does not occur? Which organisations carry out the evaluations, and what are their capacities? What are the requirements for expertise and can it be incorporated into a lifelong education system? What is the financial assessment of these qualified workers? How is it possible that the price of one person-hour of professional work in one department and practically for the same activity be more than double? And one last thing, actually. Since the fees levied for the professional tasks to be collected by the Ministry of Health will be the income of the state budget, how the Ministry will recover the fee to the budget of its chapters so that it will be able to cover the wage and other costs associated with this agenda. So thank you for the fact that we will then be able to discuss all these questions in the Health Committee, and thank you for your attention on this not-quite-interesting subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u9	Thank you, Madame, and I ask whether anyone else is still reporting to the general debate. As I see no one, I am ending the general debate and asking whether you want to take the final floor - the Minister, the rapporteur? So, Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do have a few short sentences. Thank you for your comments, the questions that have been raised here in the debate. I firmly believe that we will be able to discuss these matters in detail in the Health Committee, and I look forward to hearing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-23-ps2013-033-08-002-062.u11	Thank you. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I can't see, in which case we'll vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal be ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 145; 166 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 143, against 1. I note that the law has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I can't see, there's no suggestion. In that case, thank you, and I am done discussing this point. We're going to continue the program and open another point, and that's the point.
