ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-12-ps2013-026-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 26th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. I have here two spare cards - Mr. Tejc has a replacement card number 6 and Mr Grospič has a replacement card number 10. I agree that Milázdil asked the following Members to apologise for their absence to the hearing: within 11 hours Mr Gabal apologizes for Milan Dana, Mr Milan Brázdil for health reasons, Alexander Černý for health reasons, Ivana Dobešová until 10.30 for work Pecková, Mr Jan Farský for work reasons up to 10 hours and from 16 hours for work reasons Mr Matej Fichtner, for personal Vondrášek Petr Gazdík, from 14.30 for personal Šrámek Pavel Havíř, for Helena Válková Olga Havlová, for reasons of Josef abroad Josef Hájek, for personal reasons Leoš Heger, until 10.15 for work Svoboda Bohuslav Chalupa, for reasons of work Miroslav Kalousek, for Váhalová of work Miroslav Kalousek, for reasons of Jaroslav Vozka of Jiří for Zemánek of Vostrá Tureček of Věra time of Kasal Káželová, for Karel of working Marek of working Ženíšek of work. Now it has come to my attention that today's apology is being cancelled by Mrs Kovářová. He will be present at the hearing. From 10.45 to 13.30 for work reasons Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, for health reasons Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, for reasons of foreign travel Minister Richard Brabec, for reasons of employment Jiří Dienstbier, until 11 hours for work reasons Minister Marcel Chládek, for morning work reasons Minister Marian Jurečka apologizes, for morning work reasons Minister Michaela Marksová, for reasons of foreign travel Minister Jan Mládek, for family reasons Minister Svatopluk Němeček, for morning work reasons Minister Martin Stropnický, for reasons of foreign travel Minister Karla Šlechtová and for reasons of work Minister Dan Ťok. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 124. They are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted no later than 11 o'clock and their winnings will take place at 11.30 p.m. So we're going to go ahead and talk about this.
