ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u1	57. Members of Martin Plíšek, Leoš Heger, Jiří Skalický, Jiří Štětina, Jaroslav Krákora, Bohuslav Svoboda, Soňa Marková and Rostislav Vyzula to issue a law amending Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation and on Amendment and Supplement to Act No. 468/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended, as amended, and Act No. 256/2001 Coll., on burial and amending certain laws, as amended /German press 391/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to us as the House Press 391/1. Representatives of the appellants have chosen to present the proposal today by Mr Martin Plíšek, and I also ask Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who is rapporteur for first reading, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Deputy plaintiffs, I ask for his opening words. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, on behalf of a group of Members from almost all the Members' Clubs of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to introduce to you briefly the amendment to the Act on Advertising Regulation, which, more precisely and in some respects, is more strictly regulated by the so-called 'Computer House'. marketing and advertising relations of pharmaceutical companies on the one hand and doctors and pharmacists on the other, as well as so-called. congress tourism. I will now present to you the individual points that this proposal brings in comparison to the current adjustment. As regards so-called a reasonable degree of hospitality in the organisation of conferences of educational events, so the law defines this term more precisely and states what costs a pharmaceutical company can pay to a doctor or pharmacist. It is only supposed to be four types of costs, for accommodation, food, transport and registration fee. The law also newly affects non-business individuals, because there are often situations where so-called. third parties who have been planted offer certain fines to doctors and pharmacists in the name or on behalf of a pharmaceutical company, and then, in the exercise of the supervisory powers of the State Institute for Drug Control, which is a supervisory authority under this Act, are impenetrable and will develop from any infringement. The law further states that the organizers of events, i.e. educational events organised by pharmaceutical companies for doctors and pharmacists are obliged to inform the State Institute for Drug Control within a certain period of time about this event, i.e. organizer, in which field and who organizes the respective event at what time. Subsequently the State Institute for Drug Control will publish information about the event on the website, so there will also be more public control, citizens and patients will be able to get acquainted with this data. The new competence of the State Institute for Drug Control in the field of food supplements is also being introduced. It is often the fact that food supplements are wrongly or wrongly issued as medicines in advertising, and this, in our view, is misleading to the consumer. The proposal also prohibits advertising of medicines in the form of competition, consumer games or lottery. Edits so-called a post-registration study stating that the new law applies to them, with the exception of security studies. We know that these post-registration studies have often served or are marketing studies to promote specific medicinal products. We also know this from the application work of the State Institute for Drug Control, which recently also dealt with this matter. Last but not least, the bill also increases fines and penalties for infringements of this law. The fines were originally set in 1995. In our opinion, they are already inadequate and we propose to increase individual fines to three times, with the highest possible fine under this law being 15 million maximum. Crowns. It is, of course, due to the degree of error, the repetition of the infringement, etc. In the law we also propose to ban advertising for funeral services in hospitals and social services facilities. We do not find it entirely ethical, as we have also met in some establishments, that this advertising is operated there, and on the basis of the initiative of hospitals, health institutions, social institutions, but also of municipalities, we propose this ban. I would like to start by saying something directly in relation to this novel in the media, when it was said that we want to in some way indirectly modify this proposal. positive leaves for medical insurance medicines. I want to make sure that's not the case. This bill separates our bill from its regime so called. health insurance incentive schemes. Rather than positive leaves, the petitioners had in mind preventive programs. However, if it turns out at the second reading that there is some interpretational difficulty in how to interpret this, we are prepared to release this passage as translators. All I'm saying is that positive leaves couldn't even be modified like this without more. Their regulation rather falls under the Act on Public Health Insurance, VZP and other health insurance companies. However, we are aware that this can cause problems in practice, which is why I make it clear in advance that the petitioners at second reading may be prepared to release this matter from the law. I will add that the President of the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies has already addressed us with adjusting the advertising of illegal drugs, i.e. medicines that are not properly registered. I would also like to say that we agree with this preliminary proposal to supplement this bill. I also think that, if the law is ordered there, the area of advertising for medical devices should be discussed, because, as we know, the current government has withdrawn the accompanying legislation to adopt the Act on medical devices, where the advertising for medical devices has just been modified. I would like to conclude by thanking my colleagues from the TOP 09 Club Leoš Heger and Jiří Skalický, Members of the Úsvit movement Jiří Štětin, Jaroslav Krákor from ČSSD, Bohuslav Svoboda from ODS, Sona Marková from KSČM and Rostislav Vyzula from the ANO movement for signing this bill, and at the same time I would like to ask you, on behalf of the petitioners, to agree to refer this proposal to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u3	Thank you, counselors. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, you have your intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the news report on this press. The petitioners justify the amendment of the law by the need to create more effective mechanisms for reducing the space for corruption and non-ethical health negotiations, especially in the section of advertising for medicinal products for human use, and for combating corruption and non-ethical actions in all its forms and speeches on this section. The amendment unites the performance of supervision of advertising of medicinal products for human use with the supervision of advertising of foods for particular nutritional uses and supplements to be carried out by the same supervisory authority - the State Institute for Drug Control. It introduces, without further specifying, the concept of incentive schemes for health insurance undertakings for the purpose of economical treatment of public health insurance funds, without at least explaining what these incentive schemes are. At the same time, the bill describes this new concept as not covered by the advertising regulation law. During a meeting of experts in support of the prescription, sale, supply or consumption of medicinal products for human use or at their meetings at scientific congresses and other similar professional events, the sponsor or organiser may be provided to the participating experts, intended primarily for prescribers, hospitality in the form of transport or reimbursement of travel costs, adequate accommodation and meals as well as registration fee. Non-interventional post-registration studies, but the processing of post-registration safety studies, which do not monitor the promotion of prescription, sale, dispensation or consumption of medicinal products for human use, are not to be regarded as advertising of medicinal products for human use, and it is not for anyone to assess whether or not to monitor the safety study or to monitor the promotion of prescription medicinal products. The amendment specifies the rules for the provision of samples of medicinal products for human use to persons authorised to prescribe them and limits the provision of samples of those products which are covered by public health insurance. The definition of sponsoring scientific congresses is revised and extended to other similar professional events. A regime is hereby established to notify meetings of doctors and pharmacists who prescribe and issue medicinal products for human use, to the State Institute for Drug Control before and after the expert meeting of the notification of the specification provided for the performance and publication provided. The proposal increases the upper limit of the fines threefold so that the threat of imposing a penalty is allegedly more effective and more discouraged from committing infringements. The responsibility of natural persons for offering, promising and providing gifts or disproportionate hospitality or accommodation is also newly established so that natural persons cannot be used as sponsors - legal persons. The amendment also excludes from the prohibition of advertising the publication of sales price lists or catalogues of such medicinal products, provided that they do not contain any information on the characteristics of the medicinal products offered to direct the patient to a pharmacy with the lowest supplement for a medicinal product, thereby attempting to define the limits of competition between pharmacies. This proposal is therefore clearly intended to favour the chain of pharmacies that achieve the lowest margins from suppliers. At the same time, the amendment prohibits the dissemination of advertisements for funeral services in health and social services facilities. For the sake of completeness, I add that the Government has expressed its opposition to this proposal for several reasons, in particular, points out the current negotiation of the advertising regulation law, the House press 363, the inadequacy of the proposed sanctions, the different regulation of medicinal products and foodstuffs for particular nutritional purposes - that is the different competence of the State Institute for Drug Control and the Ministry of Agriculture. At the same time, it draws attention to the use of a taxative list of individual forms of hospitality in § 5b para. 5 - risk of conflict with Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council - and a number of legislative deficiencies. This is my news report, and at the same time I am reporting for the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate. At the same time, I ask the rapporteur whether he wants to take advantage of the rapporteur's priority right over the other applicants. Yes, he does. You have the floor in the debate, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u6	Thank you for the floor. I am adding my opinion as I have understood the bill, and I have obtained further information on this and note that it is necessary to read the law several times, so that some of the contexts are quite clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u7	I'll cut you off, colleague. I will ask the other Members for peace so that you can express your opinion on this bill, not just in the report. So can I ask individual colleagues who solve other problems to deal with them in the foyer? Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u8	Thank you. The proposed amendment seems to tighten the regulation of advertising in the field of medicinal products for human use with the desired aim of reducing corruption. That's where I agree with the petitioners. In this, it is very similar to the House of Press 761 of the last parliamentary term, which was processed with a similar intention. However, the instruments of regulation chosen are inappropriate and inadequate, in particular for the following reasons. The regulation focuses mainly on advertising aimed at doctors' experts, on the provision of samples, clinical studies and the like, i.e. on regulating the relationship of the pharmaceutical industry - the doctor. This relationship is already regulated in detail by the Act on Advertising Regulation in force. It is probably based on the assumption that doctors or pharmacists are the main ones influencing which medicinal products are prescribed, given, consumed and traded, and therefore the greatest risks are incentives for experts to motivate them to make unnecessary or inappropriate predictions. However, this does not correspond to the real condition in Czech health care. It is known that doctors, especially if they are employees, and most of them, are not free to make their decisions, but rather their decision-making autonomy is interfered with by many management and payment mechanisms. For example, hospitals include positive hospital sheets and taking into account medicines or medical devices with a bonus from the supplier. It's common practice every day. In pharmacies they are positive leaves of distribution chains. In health insurance companies for positive sheets of health insurance companies, for medicines, particularly expensive, on the terms of the contracts between the manufacturer and the insurance undertaking, so-called reshoring contracts, or on the terms of the contracts between the insurance undertaking and the provider, in particular on the setting of the volume limitation of remuneration by the so-called budget of pre-crisis limits, code lists and otherwise. These mechanisms are not sufficiently described in the law, or even in conflict with it, and their creation leaves considerable scope for corruption, which is far greater than possible corruption between industry and individual doctors. However, the proposed proposal generally only tightens the regulation of doctors, leaving almost untouched decisive relationships, and this is the relationship between industry - hospital management - pharmaceutical industry - insurance workers or pharmaceutical industry workers - the regulator's staff. [[15.20 hours]] The regulation of entities other than doctors is only marginally devoted to the proposal, at only one point and still completely inappropriately. It is a provision exempting them from the regulation of so-called incentive schemes for health insurance companies. This newly introduced concept, which the legislation does not yet know, is an incentive programme - in practice it is probably so-called positive sheets and the area of formal and informal agreements for the lowest price - but it is not defined in any way and it is not described either. Thus, there is legalization of the health insurance company's libovůl. Where new regulation would be most necessary and desirable, the parliamentary proposal is completely failing and acting more counterproductively. A flat-rate triple of sanctions may also be considered inappropriate. There is no respect for the theory that the sanctions are due, in particular, to their irreversibility, when each infringement is affected, not to its liquidation level. In general, I find it inappropriate to address the problem of corruption by regulating advertising. If the real problem is the non-discriminatory creation of payment mechanisms and the existence of undesirable incentives, commissions and rebates between producers, distributors and providers. A more appropriate approach would be to increase transparency in the creation of payment mechanisms and the introduction of a targeted anti-corruption law prohibiting, in general, any incentives to increase the use of public funds' treatment, or, on the contrary, to motivate the hidden restriction of care, not only at the level of doctors and pharmacists, but above all at the level of participants in the pharmaceutical and medical market. This law, which is aimed primarily at doctors and which increases their administrative burden, will only strengthen burnout syndrome and general mistrust of the right between doctors. They can take the legitimate impression that anti-corruption measures are being absurdly tightened only against them, at their level, while much greater corruption risks at the level of hospital management, health insurance companies and regulators remain completely ignored. A similar problem is burdened by attempts by industrial associations to self-regulation, by the way. For specific provisions: Regulation of meetings of experts and hospitality. It is an area that is already regulated and regulated. Here it would be more appropriate to regulate the hospitality provided to the staff of the regulator, i.e. employees of SÚKL, officials of the Ministry of Health, or persons having political influence in the field of health. Drug samples. This is again an area sufficiently regulated and it is not known from practice that the current sampling restriction would be insufficient. Moreover, the prohibition to provide samples of medicinal products for human use covered by public health insurance funds after the expiry of two years after their placing on the market is clearly pointless in cases where the existing, already paid and distributed medicinal product has approved a new payment indication, in particular if it is in the expertise where the medicinal product has not yet been used. This creates an unjustified difference between drugs completely new when they can be sampled and drugs with a new area of remuneration, when they can no longer be sampled. In addition, it can be noted that from the point of view of the public health insurance system, samples are free of charge and cannot be reported to health insurance companies. Therefore, it is known from practice that sometimes the route of the samples is resolved in situations where the medicinal product does not have a fixed remuneration, but is the only therapeutic alternative. It is particularly a rare disease area. In such a case it would be necessary to approve an exceptional remuneration pursuant to Section 16 of Law No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance, and thus additional health insurance expenses often very high. From the point of view of the patient, approval under Section 16 may be very lengthy and the treatment process may be at risk. It happens especially if the drug is very expensive and the disease is not quite typical. However, if a sample is provided, no additional costs shall arise and treatment shall be initiated immediately. It is, of course, a non-systemic solution, but it is a question of whether to create administrative barriers for them, when better solutions for practice do not yet offer and find our regulation. Regulation of non-interventional studies. The petitioner mistakenly considers that non-interventional studies can be compared to market research tools used to promote the presumption of consumption, etc. This is a misconception because non-interventional studies are defined in the Drug Act as follows: Non-interventional post-registration study for a medicinal product for human use for the purposes of this Act means any study in which the authorised medicinal product is used in a normal manner and in accordance with the terms of its marketing authorisation and in which the use of the medicinal product is not intended to be included by the patient in such a study but by a decision of the treating physician, whereby no additional diagnostic or monitoring procedures are applied in patients and epidemiological methods for analysis of the data collected shall be used. Non-interventional post-registration studies shall include, in particular, epidemiological, pharmacoeconomic and research studies. None of this definition gives any reason to believe why non-interventional studies could or should serve as a marketing tool. The petitioner may try to respond to a situation where these studies are merely pretended or simulated and serve only a kind of means to give doctors financial benefits for the processing of such a "study." However, if such a situation were to occur, it could already be affected under the legislation in force, because it would not have been an intervention study at all, on the contrary, it would have been a hidden payment by a doctor for a crisis which is already prohibited, i.e. bypassing the law. If it is the motivation of the petitioners to eliminate these practices, there is no need to change the law, it is sufficient to consistently enforce existing obligations with the knowledge of legal teachings about actions hidden and pretended. Now to the health insurance incentive programs. The draft law exempts from advertising the incentive programmes of health insurance companies for the purpose of economical treatment of public health insurance funds. What is understood by these incentive programs, the petitioner does not specify anywhere. We will not find their definition anywhere in other applicable legislation. Again, it is reasonable to believe, on the basis of a comparison with the previous House press of 761 from the past period and its explanatory note, that this is probably how the petitioner intends to legalize the so-called positive sheets of health insurance companies. However, this is not possible until their legal definitions, including the process of making them, are prepared. Now, I would mention one problem in a marginal way, and that is that the current law does not sufficiently affect the advertising of vaccines. Following the apparent intervention of the pharmaceutical lobby in legislation, the Czech Republic has made a key exception to Directive 2001/83/EC in a clearly different way. The Advertising Regulation Act does not provide for an exception to advertising or promotion of vaccination events, but for advertising of medicinal products used in vaccination events. It has clearly been replaced by its own subject matter of this exemption of Union law in a regulation which is compulsory to implement a fully harmonised law of the European Union. It must have cost a lot of money. Advertising of specific vaccines, so-called Brand advertising against the lay public is inadmissible and prohibited under the same law of the European Union in many Member States of the European Union. I would like to say that the Ministry of Health is preparing an amendment to the Act on Medicines, where a number of problems that I have mentioned should be addressed. I am aware that they have signed this bill with the sole exception of the representatives of all the MPs. However, I assume that most colleagues have signed this law with the best possible intention, without going further into what the actual intention of the amendment is and what its real consequences may be. I consider the bill to be a risk, and for all the above reasons, I propose rejecting it at first reading. If this proposal fails, then I propose that the petitioners be returned for work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u9	I thank the rapporteur for his speech in the debate. Now, according to the order of Mr Skalický, Mr Štětina will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the rapporteur's text, I would like to say something like this. You have before you the amendment to Act on Advertising Regulation No. 40/1995 Coll. In short, historically: This amendment, in a similar text and with some basic parameters, was discussed here about three years ago when it was sent to the health committee that dealt with this issue. I believe that over the past few years, i.e. about two to three years, it is good to return to this issue, even regardless of what the rapporteur has said. I believe that, among other things, from a number of arguments that have fallen here, it is well to discuss two areas on the ground of the Committee on Health. Firstly, it is a matter of post-registration non-interventional studies, which have been quite extensively discussed here, because it is necessary to realise and define the boundaries between sales support and advertising. I am still convinced that a number of studies are thus designed and, on the contrary, between such studies that are needed and carried out in a standard correct manner. The second area concerns the sampling of medicinal products or the provision of samples for prescribers. This is again a discussion about the conditions and their refinement. In the draft you have here, the time aspect is solved. However, it must be said that in a number of standard countries a combination of quantitative and temporal considerations is present. That is why I believe that these two areas, which are of a professional nature, really belong to the health committee, and I would very much like you to support and agree with the procedure of this amendment to second reading and to discuss this issue on the relevant expert committee. Finally, I would like to say that in that period of two to three years, of course, there has also been a shift in the behaviour of a number of farms, whether positive in terms of their self-regulation, but also in terms of negative. So even this topic is important that we evaluate it and say yes, it makes sense to pursue this law further or no. Thank you again and I ask for his release to the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u11	Thank you, Mr Skalický. Now, Mr Štětina, Mr Vyzula will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u12	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard two opinions here - the opinion of the appellant and of the group of Members, including myself and the rapporteur. I must say at the outset that I am extremely grateful to both of my colleagues, particularly in the field of health policy, so I do not think that I am going to extend here further to what they have said, because they have both said it quite clearly. I would rather look at one thing, and that is the fact that the government rejected this bill, so it expressed its opposition. When it comes to health policy and all that is reasonable, I usually agree with the government, which I have proved here many times in my own words, although I know that words are sometimes different from deeds. But surely the government will not be angry with me if I do not agree with her this time, and I would rather have this parliamentary proposal released for second reading, with all humility towards the government, because I do not like a few things. When the law is uncomfortable, it is said to be poorly written, or most say: It is pasculi. I believe that this law is not poorly written, so that is a matter in which I do not agree with the government. There are some things that the government doesn't like that there are more fines. I believe that the greater the fine, the more hope is to fight corruption, and above all, it is a kind of haunt against those who do not act in accordance with the laws of this Republic. I am aware that the government is preparing a law on advertising, it is the House press, I believe, 363 which amends Act No. 40/1995 Coll. I respect all that. But I believe that the House and, of course, the Health Committee can discuss both two laws, and then there can really be an agreement that will give us a law with which we can be satisfied for even longer than one term before political guarantees are replaced again. I must agree with my colleague Skalický, I am sorry, which, through Mr President, that this bill was expected almost three years ago, that it did not happen. [[the speaker coughed]] I believe that this law requires that we have it as soon as possible and not that we will wait again for it to be discussed, postponed, recalled, suspended, because in three years there have been many things that have been mentioned here. Very reasonable laws on medical devices have been adopted. I think and please, if you would like to release this parliamentary proposal to second reading and we can discuss it there on the health committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u13	I thank Mr Štětin and now, with his speech, Mr Rostislav Vyzula will take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. As has already been said by the rapporteur and the appellant, this is not a simple material and it will clearly need deep balance sheets and discussions, and I would therefore like to encourage you to vote in favour of having the opportunity to discuss this matter in the Health Committee. I will not mention what is the main point here, and these are the relationships between doctors and pharmaceutical companies, and I do not think that doctors are being bullied because most of them are ethically and are not afraid of reporting to the State Institute for Drug Control. I would rather like to address another issue here, which I also consider to be very fundamental and which, politely speaking, annoys me unimaginablely. It's completely shameless, misleading, misleading, people dulling advertising for the most diverse preparations of all kinds with the most diverse positive effects. This is not about increasing or adjusting the sex organs, or cutting off the hair, but many of them demonstrate, for example, an improvement in defense, i.e. immunity, or even anticancer effects. And there, as an oncologist, I have long-term experience with this. [[15.40 hours]] In short, they are fraudulent salesmen who sell miraculous means to cure incurable diseases, to lose weight, or to miraculous cosmetic effects. I must point out that these are unregistered food supplements, where advertising is totally misleading and manipulative to people. On the one hand, we are completely useless - and so I was part of it - to cancel the hospital fees, and on the other hand, the state supports advertising for these completely pointless preparations, which have no effect other than pulling money out of desperate people's pockets and shoving them into the pockets of cheaters. From oncological practice, I know cases where such preparations can cost tens of thousands of crowns. Tens of thousands of crowns! Those aren't penny items. Which guarantee it's a Swiss preparation that cures cancer. Yet nowhere is it proven that it is a Swiss preparation, and people believe it - they would not lie in Switzerland. And it's not a Swiss preparation at all! It's a simple scam. Today, even randomized studies are made for some of these products, which clearly show that they are non-working products. That is why I think we need to address this, and I think that this way of advertising must also be banned. I would therefore encourage this amendment of the Act on Advertising to the Health Committee, where advertising on unregistered medicinal products will also be dealt with, but also when there is a need to be a liability to advertisers, when such advertising contracting authority can be abroad, i.e. absolutely unstoppable, and the spreader is home. And he has no legal responsibility. It's very manipulative, and I don't like it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u15	I thank Mr Vyzula. His proposal is the same as that of the Organizing Committee, i.e. order the Health Committee. Mr Igor Nykl and then Mr Leoš Heger in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u16	Thank you for the floor, good afternoon. I would touch on one point, which is very perceived by the public, that is called. congress tourism, which you basically want to deal with there. She's basically a legal issue. Firms have to pay maximum transportation, congress fee, which is large, accommodation and it has to relate to the days when the event is. And unfortunately, what we're not gonna solve here isn't gonna work it out, that's all about morality. Because I know a lot of doctors who come to a very interesting expert congress somewhere in a tempting place and they just don't go to that congress. And that's the point. And that's a morale that, unfortunately, we can't remove in anything here. That's just how it works. If we can influence the moral public, it'll be fine. Otherwise, it's already been accepted this year. the transparent cooperation index, when every company that sends someone has to publish, will publicly publish the payment received by the person. It's a pattern, so-called. The U.S. Sunshine Act, where in America it is necessary for every company to publish all the payments made by doctors. So, luckily, this place has started running since 2015, so it is legally and professionally handled. And if we can handle a moral question, that's another matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now in the debate, Mr Leoš Heger, in a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u18	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to make a brief statement rather than -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u19	I'm gonna interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador. I am really asking the House once again for peace! If any of you are discussing other matters that do not concern this point, please transfer your discussions to the lobby and let those who are seriously discussing this issue speak calmly. Thank you. You may proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u20	Thank you. I wanted to say that I will comment more on this law, which has been discussed in detail by Mr Plíšek, and on the debate that has taken place here. I'd start from a very general point of view. Of course, they are important players in the game, which is called splitting 250 billions. health insurance. These players are undoubtedly the Ministry of Health, which, as the administrator of the whole system, determines the general rules of the game. This includes health insurance companies and health care providers. I'd like to mention the last two. This means insurance companies and health care providers. Health care providers, respectively. their doctors, if the providers represent the institutions that employ the doctors, they divide about one fifth of the 250 billion. in prescription medications. It's a situation that doesn't have an equivalent in this country or in other countries in other types of distributions from society-wide sources that money is in public health insurance. Because this is where society traditionally puts its trust in doctors, which is, say, 30 thousand. or 25 thousand who prescribe drugs and who prescribe them without any authorisation of the type of administrative procedure normally prescribed for the distribution of individual resources. So every doctor gets from the company confidence that his share of the 50 billion. He will write recipes according to his best conscience and his Hippocratic Hippokratův. So you can agree on this with the previous Dr. Nykl discussing, who says that doctors divide money by what level their morale is. I have to agree with that. And I must also agree that it is very difficult to prevent a 100% abuse of this trust. However, on the other hand, there is a widely discussed fact that trust in doctors is not absolute in this society, and it is pointed out to a number of acts that doctors sometimes do, even if it is their minority. The doctors. In this case, the law, which speaks mainly of doctors or prescribers, is a kind of memento. It is true that in recent years there have been codes of companies that are at the level of some kind of ethical codes, but those codes are quite difficult to enforce and do not yet work perfectly. I would just point out that the law is not written against doctors. On the contrary, it is written for doctors who adhere to the moral code and are honest. Because in a situation where, of course, it is not possible to control all prescribers in detail, the dishonest ones hide in detail, and the honest ones are the stupid ones that generally show that not all doctors are completely perfect. Well, that's one point of view. [[15.50 hours]] The second view is the insurance companies mentioned here by Mr Hovorka's rapporteur. So I will not expand on what Mr Plíšek has already said about the fact that health insurance incentive programs have aroused some misunderstanding, and in no way does this law impose anything to codify those incentive programs. Moreover, with regard to the volume of distribution of resources, what is not yet justified by the law and what has been done, a kind of positive leaf formation, represents a relatively small volume of distribution of money into medical devices and medicines, and it is generally agreed that this mechanism must be codified by law in some way, because it is a bit on the water, although it has proved itself and has already brought some savings to insurance companies. But let me just mention the third player, these are care providers, or managers, who have been spoken of quite badly. I have to claim that I have been one of such hospital managers for many years, among which the positive sheets in hospitals gained considerable popularity and were presented to the professional public, were even supported by the former Ministry of Health, but I must point out that although they are also not legally codified in any way, such positive sheets have led to significant savings in hospital management especially at times when hospitals faced far greater financial problems than today and have produced good results. And I'm only saying this because it's clear that no hospital manager is able to make such a positive leaf and enforce it himself, that the positive leaves were created in hospitals just from the doctors that were mentioned here, that this law should somehow terrorize them. No, the doctors were involved and very careful to ensure that hospital managers interfered as little as possible, and, on the contrary, the doctors themselves, in a self-governing way, were looking for the best ways to optimize the spectrum of medicines used in the hospital. So the fact that providers are not mentioned in the law can be easily corrected by extending the law's diction in second reading, as it is possible to completely release a passage on positive sheets or incentive mechanisms of insurance companies or to clarify it in any way, but in any case the issue on the part of prescribers is so specific that it is worth discussing in second reading and coming back to plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u21	I thank Mr Heger. That was the last one entered into the debate, and if no one is reporting for the debate, I will, of course, give the floor to the final words. Or if that's what you want in the debate - the plaintiff? [[No.]] Okay. If no one is in the debate, I am done with the debate and the final words are spoken by both the appellant's representative and the rapporteur's. First, I ask the plaintiff's representative with the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u22	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because I really think that a detailed debate on the individual provisions of the law is to be conducted at second reading. However, I must remind you here that in the past period, a similar amendment was discussed in the Chamber of Deputies and interrupted four times in the Committee on Health. I just want to demonstrate that there was quite a strong pressure at the time for this amendment not to be approved, at that time it was because of bonuses provided in pharmacies and because of one provision, and therefore some Members simply tried to leave the committee so that this amendment could not be approved. This means, just pointing out the pressures that have already been and certainly have not been motivated by the pure interests of the patient and his protection of information about the reasons on which medications are prescribed or issued. Even now I have received several comments, whether addressed or even anonymous, that is part of it. But I just want to say that the petitioners have tried to address this issue in a balanced manner. As the rapporteur said, the proposal is not only aimed at doctors, it targets pharmaceutical companies, of course. And I add that, of course, our aim is not to address the payment of the creation, the relationship between health insurance companies and providers. This is another issue, which, by the way, should also be addressed at least primarily by the Ministry. I'm just gonna make sure the Department of Health isn't setting up a advertising bill. We're discussing the advertising law, but it's about voting advertising, which means it's not about pharmaceutical advertising. We really don't deal with this at the same time. I just want to point that out. I also want to promise the petitioner that, if necessary, at second reading, we will support the modification or deletion of the provisions on incentive schemes for health insurance companies, which actually aimed at something other than the positive sheets mentioned here. We will definitely focus on specifying non-interventional post-registration studies. I would like to support the President of the Health Committee's proposal on advertising illegal products, and I think that we should also try to solve the problem of advertising medical devices. So, once again, I'm asking you to submit this proposal to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u23	I thank Mr Plíšek as representatives of the appellants and now the final word of the rapporteur is the final word. Please, rapporteur, take the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I just want to sum up the basics that I have said here. A number of the arguments that have been made here, I do not want to say that they would not be right, but they really focus only on the narrow group of people who prescribe medicinal products, that is, on the relationship between industry and doctors, experts. It is a matter that has simply been here since 2007 by this Chamber of Deputies that the only form of corruption is actually between industry and prescribers. I'm pointing out that doctors feel that they're actually being criminalized. And what happens or happens in relation to industry - hospitals, industry - health insurance companies, risk-sharing agreements, lowest price agreements, this remains unaffected, and this is a decisive amount of health insurance funds. Positive leaves themselves may not be a bad thing. The second thing is, however, that there are no rules for their creation, if there is no advantage for certain firms at the expense of others and so on. And, of course, management is solid and management is less solid. After all, we could have seen that in the matter of Hospital Na Homolce. What we need to take into account in assessing all of these things is that only part of the medicinal products, namely prescription medicinal products, are regulated. Far more volume, which is delivered to hospitals, there are virtually no rules there, they are just code lists of health insurance companies and so on. And regulated medical devices are not regulated at all. I think that these things need to be dealt with primarily in the Health Insurance Act and set up better payment mechanisms and so on. That's what I think is the basic way to curb corruption. Of course, there has been corruption in the relationship between industry and doctors, there are cases where specific doctors have been convicted, but I believe that this is already in a certain way and quite well treated in the current legal order. [[16.00 hours]] Otherwise, there's one thing I'd like to point out. Take a good look at the explanatory memorandum and read one small paragraph: "The amendment does not change beyond the current situation, only in order to increase legal certainty of the addressees of the legislation is explicitly highlighted, but it is also clearly stated that the restriction does not concern a situation where the pharmacy achieves a better competitive position than its competitors, a more favourable final price for the patient, in a situation where it applies a lower margin than its competitors. The reason for such legislation is quite obvious and it benefits the patient, who is reduced or eventually the end of the payment.' This is essentially a comment that it is possible - or that the price lists of medicinal products will not be regarded as advertising. Of course, this will only lead to directing customers to certain pharmacies and, above all, pharmacies chains. Here I would like to point out that, during the period since 2007, when a change in legislation was adopted and regulatory fees have entered the Health Insurance Act, forgiveness or bonusing of regulatory fees in these chains immediately followed, thereby increasing, say, the position of these chains on the market. At the moment the regulatory fees were abolished, another option was immediately offered, namely to reduce the surcharges. I'd just point out the inequality here. Of course, the chain of pharmacies in conjunction with distributors will reach lower margins than the individual pharmacies that move on the market. So there's an obvious advantage to the pharmacies chain. In connection with this, it must be said that it is the chains that have hard positive leaves and often replace prescribed medicines without consulting doctors, which I think is very bad. So it's just to have the picture complete. Otherwise, I would like to say that five fellow Members have spoken in the debate. Thank you for the debate and otherwise I refer to the proposals that I made in my contribution, which means a motion for rejection, and if this proposal is not adopted, then the proposal to return the petitioners for completion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u25	I thank the rapporteur for his final speech. Before we continue, I will make one more apology, which was delivered to the President of the House from Mr Holeček - from 15.55 to the end of the day, for reasons of the family. We will therefore continue now, after the final debate and the final speeches, by voting on the individual procedural proposals. We will vote on rejection first, because the rapporteur, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, made the possible recovery conditional on how it would be decided to reject the proposal. If neither rejection nor return passes, we will vote on the commandment. I will summon you, those whom I have banished to the lobby, by the gong, and I will unsubscribe you, by asking you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of Members applied for is settled, we will decide on the motion to reject this parliamentary motion in the 78-order vote that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of rejecting this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 78 of the 154 present for 75. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore now vote on the proposal to return the petitioners for completion, in the vote on order number 79 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of returning the proposal for revision. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 79 of the 158 present for 86, against 66. The motion was accepted. So we're not going to go on because The Chamber of Deputies decided that point No. 57, print 391 is returning to the petitioners for completion. I thank the representatives of the appellants, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-018-057.u26	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss the next point and this is
