ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u1	115. Annual Report on Czech Television Economics in 2013 /German press 283/ We discussed this House press on 9 April 2015 at the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we also interrupted the general debate at the request of TOP 09 and Mayors. I would remind you that the report has been discussed by the Election Committee and its resolution has been delivered as a House press 283/1. I ask Mr Jan Birke to take a seat at the rapporteur's table and ask him if he wants to speak. The general debate is open, so if you want, you can. Isn't that right? Is it? No, it's not. So further, we have Mr Valenta and Mrs Hubáčková's applications. I'm gonna ask Mr. Valenta for a microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken in the debate on this report and its quality in the first quite extensive way, and I have also been duly appreciated for this good deed from the right-wing Members. For example, my colleague Stanjura has told me that I have had time to address my reservations about this report in committees. And I hereby answer him by your means, Madam President, that he should leave it entirely to me, where and how I will attend and address my comments. He can train his MPs at ODS in this regard if you like it, of course. I certainly did not violate the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and committee discussions when, for example, five full members were present in the electoral committee when approving this report, I consider the importance of this report on the management of the institution with the amount of the regional city's budget to be quite inadequate. But this unnecessary remark towards the chairman of the ODS Club is not the true purpose of my performance. Rather, I would like to correct some of the information that appeared in the media after my performance. I have to say, unfortunately, for your information, that audio recording shows that I have said here in the House that the cost of production for one hour of broadcast costs about 300 000. Crowns. Then it appeared in the screen recording that I had only mentioned 30 thousand. Crowns. And even though I had this tape officially repaired, then this distorted and apparently very much liked it with the tendential and politicized appetite of a proper media economy, many media outlets took over. The impact of my information was fatally diluted by this distortion, and its notice value for citizens was so highly sophisticatedly negated. So just to be clear, one more time. It was about proving that at such a high cost of production, that is, 300 thousand. CZK per hour, in the main broadcasts of Czech Television, there are sometimes unobjected and unbalanced shows that, thanks to this bias, only a minimum of viewers watch. And I illustrated it, for example, on the example of History.cs , where the ratings are at a totally trivial level between 38 and 80 thousand. spectators. They clearly contrast with this fact, for example. News broadcasts also in prime time. They're always around 800 thousand. spectators. The way I explain it is that it is especially because the news can only be manipulated in a limited way, and citizens understand it, and that is how they probably understand it. And the ratings should be the main criterion, because the logic of the TV thing that no one is watching is meaningless and has no social justification. The state of affairs in relation to the Report on the Management of Czech Television is an obvious example of inefficiency. And no one can convince me otherwise. Nor by deliberately delaying the discussion of this report. Let us consider that this is already the 2013 Economic Report of Czech Television! Nor any media spit or simplistic donkey bridges, as Mr Štětina, Mrs Slonková, server Lidovky.cz and others recently demonstrated. However, I was not convinced by Mr Kučera, the presenter of the programme History.cs, whose parts - I note some parts - I may have personally classified myself as unbalanced and also not entirely objective because of his tendential moderation style. In addition to this statement, after these attacks, which are trying to make sense of the impression or appearance that I am questioning the independent position and role of the public media, I still insist. However, I would like to inform the House of Honor that I have also received a civil initiative in connection with the discussion of this annual report, in which the case of how Czech Television allows certain business entities to obtain exemption from the obligation to pay television fees, does not pay the amounts due and the premium. And I think that it could be quite a burden on the management of a public institution and its reputation, and hence its entire economy, which is a burden on the facts. Communication and I note that very specific address data, including information on pending official complaints by the notifier, directed in this respect to the Czech Television Council, pointing out the damage caused about 900 thousand. CZK, I will examine in the near future and then consider whether I will take further steps in this respect. And actions of legal nature, if necessary. However, I would also like to check whether the so-called so-called "television" is actually paid on Czech television. golden parachutes. Unfortunately, this cannot be seen from the management report. In doing so, an example was presented to me by a disgruntled citizen of 15 monthly salaries, namely . Vojeslavský, whom I do not personally know, and this gentleman was supposed to obtain them in connection with his silence about some financial transactions carried out on Czech television. And in the third time I ask, once again after the announcement of the familiar person: Is it really possible that while the CEO drives in the presidential limo A8 and his wife in the new Škoda Superb 3.6 FSI Elegance that even the private use of these cars - I note the private use of these cars - is happening at the expense of Czech Television? And then she's going public under the weight of the declared financial inadequacy? What would President Zeman have to say about that, that his stun gun is almost as expensive as the principal's service car? But that's just to lighten up. [[12.30 hours]] A few more sentences on the content of the report I didn't mention last time. In this sense, for example, I put myself in a position to do so. questions why this document does not contain information about the costs of the operation of individual organizational components of Czech Television. Why there is no cost for the production of individual types of programmes, hourly costs for the production of news on Czech Television, costs for Czech films, which Czech Television co-productions, and other essentials. I would also like to know why there is no justification, an analysis of why TV charges for 2012 and 2013 have been reduced. According to one of the former members of the Czech Television Council, I can say that this is Radek Mezuláník, the management of Czech Television is admitting to this fact for the first time, but it does not explain the reasons anymore. So how it is possible that Czech TV is developing extensively according to the report, while the number of licence fees is constantly decreasing. The former Councillor of Czech Television also publicly states that this organization has brought a lot of money into friendly companies that used to be in a commercial environment, and only then have they started getting orders from Czech Television. The company, which provided lighting for Czech television, was also said to have been dealt with, while the TV technology has and does not need to hire anyone anymore. And so on and so forth. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me reiterate my original proposal. I am thinking of this Annual Report on Czech Television's 2013 management not to approve and try this way, now I am referring to the situation even after the second non-approval, to start recovery processes on Czech Television, which would help create a transparent and efficient management institution, which will be built on pillars of objectivity and proportionality and which will be remote from management and management, not only in my opinion, but also according to the assessment of thousands of concessionaries, client-related groups of people with close ties or orientations to some party entities whose representatives of Czech Television are opposed to any - and often legitimate and constructive criticism - they are now resisting strongly. After all, all dealers have the undisputed right to demand this from a public institution and to demand from us, as a top representative body, to carry out control of its management, since Czech television is financed from 91% of the funds received from dealers. And every good caretaker should take good care of his means. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u3	Thank you, Mr Member, but nevertheless I am forced to comment on your proposal, which, according to the legislative department, is unvoteable, because the only motion for a resolution we can vote on is, according to Parliament's press, 283/1, and that is that the Chamber of Deputies approves the annual report. If this proposal is not accepted from this House's press, this will fill your proposal, i.e. I'm sure it won't be approved. Well, that's just for explanation. Now, please, to the microphone of Mrs. Hubáčková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u4	Madam President, colleagues, although I am aware of the necessity and need of the public service media, which have an irreplaceable role in the media environment and are not only one of the instruments of democracy but also the last of the public spaces that disappear in this country one by one, I regret to say that I will vote in favour of rejecting the report on the management of Czech Television in 2014. Yes, all the numbers and information in the report look good. The auditor's statement is without reservation, the tables are informatively nutritious. What we don't know is, for example, how is it that Czech Television manages with a balanced budget. Isn't it because Director Dvořák inherited from Director Janečka a multi-billion licence fee fund from which he now makes up the budget? Will this fund by any chance be exhausted in 2017? Why does Czech Television refuse to publish its management salaries? In fact, we now know only the CEO's salary, but what about the others, for example. The C.E.O.? They are all paid out of the money of us, the taxpayers, whom virtually everyone is. They are all subject to information obligations under the Free Access to Information Act as beneficiaries of public funds. Yes, not only licence fees, but also other revenues, according to the European Court of Justice, are public funds, as they are allocated by the Czech Television Act on Czech Television as part of public law. Even according to the Supreme Administrative Court's case-law, Czech Television is a public corporation and is obliged to publish salaries, salaries of all persons in the leading positions, i.e. the salary of the Head of the Secretariat of the General Director and of course the salary and fees of Václav Moravec. Personally, I will be happy to learn how much Czech television costs, including the personal ones, for the post of Washington correspondent, which I have always seen behind a keyed background, where he tells us what he read in yesterday's Times, because I think he can do this from Prague and for a fraction of the money. I am very happy to learn the costs of the Czech Television mission in Brussels, where it is completely invisible, it is unable to reflect the work and spectrum of views of Czech MEPs, including all political currents, and the activities of European institutions that affect the interests of the Czech Republic. I will also be happy to learn the costs and salary of a reporter from Ukraine Karas, who is sufficient with illustrations and quotes from the Kiev government or fighters of the right sector, without bothering to find out the opinion of the other party and present it at the same time and in the same tone in his voice. Yes, I know, with the CEO, a tame majority in the Czech Television Council claims that everything is okay with the news from Ukraine. No, I don't think so. I'm ashamed of us. The House of elected councilman Jankovec, who claims that the European Commission commands this bias of Czech television. No, he's not. I am interested in how much money Czech TV has spent on its own, uncollected and objective coverage of policy developments in Greece, which ended at the beginning of 2015 with a surprising victory of the left for Czech Television. I am interested in the money that costs Czech TV production of a political-satiric programme 168 minutes, where friends of friends with no enthusiasm and under the auspices of freedom of speech degenerate our work, government work and the work of the President. The number of journalists from Bakalův's newspapers and private banks is enormous and left-wing publicists glean or even blacklisted on the Czech TV screen. I therefore consider the information in the report to be insufficient. I would expect objectivity, political balance of all news and publicity programmes, as foreseen by the law and the law on radio and television broadcasting. In addition, I know that we will not deal with the activities of Czech Television until the next few weeks. In my opinion, Czech television is completely inadequate in the field of public service news. The statement by Councilman Jankovec that Czech television cannot be balanced because the European Commission is forcing it to do so, at this time I consider it scandalous. The European values of humanity to be the perspective of Czech television, according to the recommendations of the Council of Europe, include neither lies, undereducatedness, schlendrian, but neither stupidity. The Czech Television Council overlooks many problems and acts more like a choir of Czech Television's dilettante speakers. The Council is to be a structural body, not us, Members. The supervisory body shall be constructive, biased and direct. Not a choir of servilian nods. [[12.40 hours]] Czech television is not able to demonstrate its balance and objectivity because it does not have an internal analysis department for the content that such an analysis would do. The Czech Radio could be her role model. However, after the statement by Councilman Jankovec, we know at the moment that the Czech Television does not need a union because it is not objective and balanced and it will not be. However, the concessionaires that it represents imagine objectivity and balance as required by the law and the Code. For the time being, the Council ignores the violation of the law and allows the discharge of television charges on something that is not a public service. Therefore, I see the unauthorized treatment of the public funds entrusted, which the council of stupidity or inactivity covers most of its members. Then the question is whether such counsel fulfils its function as prescribed by the law. I don't think so. And if it fails to do so, why should we, Members, tolerate it? I will therefore vote on rejecting this report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u5	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Jandák in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleague of the previous speaker, I don't want to delay for long. I'd just like to start with the point of one Slovak joke that says - the bell will make it look that way. Look, I think everyone understands in this House of Media, Transport and Health. That's what we've learned. [[The noise in the hall, other suggestions falling, with a smile.]] I think we're still doing this. I don't want to say that what you and another member of your club said here isn't exactly true. And I wouldn't even want to say it's half-truths. But we are here to approve the report on television management, not activity. Please, let's get to this. I'm a memoir, and I know that every time this report has been discussed in history, there's always been a section around it. Because the TV... On principle, journalists do not like MEPs. And who are those poor bastards supposed to shoot? Well, they're shooting at us. But the media isn't at war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u7	Thank you, and now with Mr Valenta in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'm just briefly talking to my colleague Jandák. You are, of course, and undoubtedly full of truth. But where were you when I was talking? [[Member Jandak answers that here.]] I know that, but you probably didn't listen to me, because I was just talking about the management, not the content of Czech television. [[with emphasis]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u9	Thank you and another one entered in the debate is Mr Komárek. And just a little heads-up. At 12.45 we have a fixed point. So I'll invite you to the mike, and if necessary, I apologize in advance for any interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u10	Thank you, Madam President. At this point, I think, quite exceptionally perhaps even my colleague Jandák will admit to me that I know a little bit about it, and that is why I will not fit into the two minutes I have left, and I will be interrupted. [[Laughter from the left]] 'Cause I'd really like to put a little bit of order into it. I don't think the media is at war either. I think public television should be as strong and as best as possible in the media crisis these days. I think that politicians should not comment on the content at all, nor should they comment on what shows are good and what shows are bad and how much they cost or what they do not cost. Because they must not speak in accordance with the law - that is, of course, freedom of speech, but they cannot influence it. Neither can the Czech Television Council. According to the law, Czech Television is completely independent and only its director is responsible for the program. Nevertheless, I confess that I have a problem with the report on the management of the Czech Television Council. The problem is double. First of all, I'm going to put it in order, there's a problem in the law. The law gives the Council of Czech Television too little power in terms of controlling the economics of Czech Television. And I think that this control is supposed to be consistent, and there should be greater involvement of the board in the creation of not only one framework budget, but even in the production of the Czech Television's economics. However, this does not allow it to do so by the present law. The second flaw of this law is that television gives a separate activity report and management report. I think I've already made an argument - it's like when a plumber comes to you, he fixes something for you, he tells you all about what he's done and what his dress is and what his wife looks like, and he sends you a $50,000 bill in six months. I'm sure you wouldn't agree to something like that. But beware, this is not a criticism of Czech television. I don't want to comment on Czech Television and I won't. I criticize the law, and in the second part of my speech, I will criticize the council. Thank you, and now I give up my word because I will be interrupted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-011-115.u11	Thank you. I am interrupting this point at the moment. We'll go back to him after lunch. And now please make another point, which is
