ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u1	124. Members of Martin Kolovratník, Jan Birke, Zbyněk Stanjura, František Laudát and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure, as amended, and Act No. 184/2006 Coll., on the withdrawal or limitation of ownership of land or construction (the Act on expropriation), as amended /German press 628/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We received the Government's position as House Press 628/1. I would like to point out once again that it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading. prosit refer to Mr Martin Kolovratník as the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u2	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, thank you for the floor, I wish you a good afternoon, thank you and I will try to be brief, as I always try. First of all, I want to say that this is a big and important moment for me, that we have managed to negotiate this law or draft law and prepare it in a genuine agreement between the coalition and the opposition. I don't think I'm going to burden you with a long history, a long story, perhaps just briefly remind you that it's a law that solves the so-called shortcut. purchase of land, respectively. Land purchase prices, if the State, state investors are going to buy land from citizens, mostly for the purpose of building roads, motorways or first-class roads, but of course for example. railway or other infrastructure. The history was quite long when by 1 February 2013, many of you will remember this, the special bonus prices were not regulated by law, they were used so called. the price established and the agricultural land was bought out at the price of the construction land. Those prices often fluctuated a lot. [[17,00 hours]] Our predecessors, and many of you were then present, decided from 1 February 2013 to regulate the price by the so-called usual price, increased in the case of agricultural land by up to 100 per cent, i.e. by double. Unfortunately, at that time or after this change, land purchases practically stopped. I myself began to follow the situation in Eastern Bohemia, in my region, where the important road R35 is being built. Already here in this House we began to prepare another novel. It was still for the Minister of Transport, Prachař. The amendment was agreed here in the House last spring and has come into force since September 2014. Unfortunately, it is fair to say and admit that the structure was not ideal. Thus, including today to these days, it is said that the price is up to 16 times that. And it was this turnover, the possibility of this interval up to 16 times, that proved problematic because, above all, ŘSD offered landowners, whether privates or municipalities, mostly a firm 8 times that was discussed, but, of course, the owners tried to fight for more and they started solving exceptions etc. etc. So we have decided and agreed to prepare a new amendment in the form of a parliamentary proposal, which is before you at the moment. We ask in the proposal for approval in an accelerated reading according to Section 90, as has already been said. It is a proposal for both us, representatives of the coalition, i.e. my, Mr. Birke, colleagues from KDU Klaška, Kudela. And what I want to thank very much for and appreciate it, indeed, is the proposal signed by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura for the ODS and Mr František Laudát for the TOP 09. It was the colleagues who came up with the incentive, if I may say so, at the end of the summer that they would be willing to help us with this refinement. I really want to thank them once again for this, and I very much appreciate that this agreement has taken place, because it is not so common and frequent in the negotiation of our laws. So, briefly and in a simple way, added and underlined, in this amendment to Act No. 416/2009 Coll. In addition to a few further clarifications, we propose that the purchases for the land be fixed as 8 times the usual price, which the expert will assess. And it's in the case of voluntary redemption from the seller's side. Otherwise, I want to say in the last sentence that people in practice are already ready for this law that they are counting on. If all goes well, it should be published in the Collection of Laws since the New Year. The efficiency will be postponed by two months for technical reasons, i.e. on 1 March 2016, so that the ŘSD can still process and finish contracts that are already in the field and are being negotiated between people. So there shouldn't be any conflict, and I believe it won't be here in the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u3	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And I'll ask my colleagues... [[The O.R.'s down.]] Relax. Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Michal Kučera. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in advance of my speech I would like to thank the speaker for being brief as usual. And now let me also briefly introduce you to the draft law that we will be discussing today, which amends Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure, as amended, and Act No. 184/2006 Coll., on the withdrawal or limitation of ownership of land or construction. I would first say a few words on the grounds of this law, because I think it is important to know that this proposal is not closely focused on one dominant problem, i.e. it also responds to more of the partial problems associated with the property preparation of the buildings. It is, of course, also based on the practical experience, as the promoter, who has the Ministry of Transport and investors, in particular the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, has already mentioned. This means that the practice with the previous novel is projected into this novel today. The proposal is based on the principle of unification of road procedures owned by the state, i.e. motorways and first-class roads. There are no changes in the basic principles in the law contained in the design of the purchase price, i.e. the increase in the purchase price compared to the price estimated, but the proposal contains a change in the way in which this increase is determined. I would also like to say that the proposed legislation removes the problems encountered by the property-legal preparation of transport infrastructure buildings owned by the State. These problems can either not be resolved without the amendment of the law or the solution through administrative steps under the applicable law has proved to be inadequately effective. It's too expensive. I would like to say that the petitioners are proposing to discuss this law at first reading...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u5	Yes, colleague. I see the noise in the House. There are fewer noises, but it makes them louder. So we wait... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u6	I think it's important information. The petitioners propose to discuss this law at first reading, i.e. in an accelerated reading, pursuant to § 90, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. today we will decide on the validity or invalidity of this amendment. Finally, let me introduce you to the Government's position on this proposal. At its meeting on 9 November 2015, the Government discussed and examined the draft law amending Law No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure, as amended, and Act No. 184/2006 Coll., on the withdrawal or limitation of ownership of land or construction, as amended, and agreed to this proposal. [[Law on expropriation]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u7	Thank you. I am registering an application with Mr Laudát's priority right and then Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'd have reservations about some of the protagonists who signed up there, because they didn't do anything about it. I'm just gonna remind you. We're on the Economic Committee... I asked, even though I knew in advance that the purchases of à la Duster did not work, for some analysis - it was quite briskly delivered - from which it was clear that the purchases according to Prachař and Babiš did not work, because they both showed how incompetent the previous representations were during the purchases. But I'm not going to extend the debate here because the perpetrator of Babiš isn't here, so I don't think there's any point. But you know the media campaign, how the highways will only be built now. Unfortunately, while I was pushing to approve the amendment quickly, because it could have been easier, at the beginning of July, when it was still the House, we did not see it. I'm just saying, in the same spirit, the key part, i.e. that it must be a fixed amount with the fact that Stanjura and I have warned that there is no other way to expropriate, because you have to exhaust all options for expropriation. That's what some of you were laughing at, and you arrogantly swept two designs off the table. And I just want to say, as a menacing memento, Stanjura wrote this amendment in two versions, even though something is still packed there, from Monday to Tuesday. You needed it from May to November 25th. But I'm saying, I'm glad it's here. Unfortunately, yesterday I had to literally beg for this to be the priority for the discussion, even though we have been offering since July that we will allow, virtually. We want 90 to make it quick. In future, I would like coalition Members to listen to that part of the opposition means well with this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u9	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Stanjura's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u10	Thank you for the floor. I think that the bill demonstrates what I say quite regularly here, that transport is not entirely a political resort, that we are able to find a consensus there, and that's where we found it. I could ironically say we were right again and the truth turned out to be true, but I'm not gonna do it. I'm just saying, we're gonna have to do this the third time. Once we tried it, then the similar proposal failed in the Senate. But I am really glad that we have found a consensus across the political spectrum, that we have agreed with the government parties and that, apart from criticism, we have been able to prepare something together. If you remember the debate over a year ago, we didn't differ in our opinion, if we were to pick it up, we were different in the instrument. I think there was a common view of both the coalition and the opposition that it has to be dealt with, that prices are low. We were simply pointing out the risks to the proposal. At the time, the Minister of Transport wanted to deal with it by some kind of internal regulation that he would decide on his own. Then, logically, because those cases, as we predicted, grew tens and hundreds, especially the managers and statutory bodies of legal entities, in order to deal with the care of a proper economy, they had to try to get the highest price. And when we are friendly today, I would like to thank Minister Took, because I have watched the running of the law, and I know that a proposal has come from the Government Legislative Council for the Government to give a negative opinion, and I have no reason not to believe the media reports afterwards that Minister Ťok has proposed the opposite procedure to the Government and the government has approved his proposal. I really want to thank him for that, because I'm sure on every bill you're able to find some lack, inaccuracy, indiscretion. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] In addition to the fact that there are clear rules for everyone and it will be easier for the officials of our investor organisations, no one will blame whether he offered more or less, why he started at four or eight, so there is another important principle that I must remind you about. The fact that we bonify the owners will get more money to be motivated to contribute to the state's ability to build its infrastructure, on which it agrees, so the increased price will not count on the price usual in the particular cadastral territory, because it would obviously distort the value of all other land upwards and it could also happen that one year we will buy something for eight times, it will be the only shops in the particular cadastral territory, which is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u11	Ambassador, I am so sorry, but I hear some colleagues screaming here, and I need to hear what you're saying so I can record your possible proposals for a vote. If my colleagues don't really keep their voice down, I'm going to stop the House for a moment so they can talk in peace and then we can move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u12	That's what we do when we agree. Then it's boring. When we cut our arguments for and against, I think we pay more attention, but sometimes the consensus isn't bad. I'm just gonna finish the idea. In theory, it could be times eight, no other business will be done in the territory. In a year, this increased price becomes the basis, and we're going to count again times eight. So it is also clarified that the public interest that the state displays by giving a higher price than usual, precisely eight times, does not affect the price of the other land when setting the price usual in the cadastral. I think that's good. And logically, by being one of the petitioners, I also say for our club that we support the discussion and approval at first reading. If we make it today and colleagues in the Senate and the President make it, then I think that the effectiveness will be almost immediately after the start of the new year. This will certainly contribute to the acceleration of the purchase not only in the 35th, which I now consider to be a priority number one in the transport system of the Czech Republic, although important communications are a lot, but I really consider the second connection of the Czech and Moravian regions to be a priority number one in road transport and I think that would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u13	Thank you. I am now opening up a general debate in which I note the two factual remarks made by Mr Pilný and Mr Adamec. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, everyone makes mistakes. We had an excited debate at the club about 16 times and its conditions, where the Minister's opinion prevailed. It was clearly wrong. I would like to thank you for the helpful steps of the opposition that will enable us to remedy this issue, because it is really in the interests of the Czech Republic and the construction of its infrastructure. I hope we'll be more careful next time, but we just make mistakes. And this mistake, in my opinion, and I voted in favour of the law too, I'm sure it was. Once again, I thank the opposition for having taken a stand in order to correct the law urgently, with great willingness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u15	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Adamec, in fact. [[There's still noise in the room.]] Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much appreciate the position of my Chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr Pilný. I'm also glad it got on the show today, and I hope we approve it at first reading, because time is really pushing us. I wanted to say something else in my note. I wanted to ask you again, today it has fallen, masters of environmental and transport ministers, how it looks with the EIA on the sections that are already processed, where the EIA took place. We are in danger that the EIA will have to be done under the new law again. I think that this is a nice step that we are going to take, I believe that we will approve land purchases according to clear rules, but then I wonder what the rules are going to be in the EIA, because I personally and I think all of us want motorways, railroads and line construction to be built in general, not built, and we just talked about them. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u17	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Fiedler, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Just a short time, because it's been heard here by the previous speakers. The rapporteur said it very rightly that this is a consensus between the coalition and the opposition that it is not common, which unfortunately is also true. I would like to turn to the coalition in other cases where the opposition is arguing that you should listen to us more. I remember quite well how we discussed the law here, it was still in the past minister. Minister Ťok is here today. I remember the arguments you made with the weight of the coalition votes, and you didn't hear the arguments. I would like to call on you to listen more and more to the opposition's views, because believe that our only way to present this to the public is to make real and true arguments, as was the case here. I declare that we will support the proposal, support the negotiations in the short-term regime of the 90th. We're not gonna argue with that. On the contrary, this is our position and I believe that this is how the entire House will decide. And once again, I would like to call on the coalition to listen more to opposition views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u19	Thank you. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Šidlo. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a few comments on the 628 press. I will not, in any way, evoke anything against an accelerated hearing in our political faction in the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 90 para. 2, although I am very sorry that it will go through this rapid negotiation and this amendment is to be adopted at first reading, because I have to join the partial criticism that has been made. I not only remember the arguments that we had about the previous amendment to the law, where the price was created and its up to 16 times in the hands of the Minister, eight times in the hands of state organizations buying land and preparing constructions, but I also remember that we agreed with the previous Minister that we would get clear arguments in the hands for further developments regarding the laws on speeding up transport infrastructure and other infrastructure in the Czech Republic. And the argument was not only in what we received on the Economic Committee, it was confirmed that land purchases had stopped. It is true that only 1,500 have managed to deal with almost 9,000 unfinished land, which I consider very little, and it is okay that there is an effort to change anything. But we also wanted to see economically documented what it meant by 16 times and possibly eight times in the purchase of land against the prices originally established and the original variants of the law in relation to up to 100 per cent for agricultural land and 15 per cent for construction land. We have never seen the calculation even in the small number of plots, what it was actually doing, so that it could be economically explained what change would be at a fixed price, which today is offered at eight times the price. [[17.20 hours]] Today, the petitioners merely stated that the price or cost of the land purchase budget would not increase substantially. But we don't know what they really are because we didn't get the arguments into our hands. But it doesn't prevent us from supporting this thing, because we only think by a simple estimate that eight times as fixed amounts will certainly simplify land purchases and possibly the by-product in reducing the cost of land purchases can appear there. But we would also like to see this as a Member once again tangible, as it looks from an economic point of view. And one more argument, which I am very sorry and annoyed by, is that this amendment is going through an accelerated discussion and approval at first reading today, so I am at the last amendment to Act No. 416/2000 Coll. He argued and also presented an amendment that the purchase of land for transport and other infrastructure does not only involve the State through its organisations, but also the cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic. And I am very sorry that now that the relatively clear indicator of the way the land is purchased and the fixed eight times why municipalities and cities cannot be allowed to do this, so that they can participate in the preparation of individual buildings when they normally do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u21	Thank you. Next logged in, please. I see here Mr Andrle's factual remark and then Mr Stanjura's proper application. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u22	Good evening. I'm from Vysoké Myth, and that's where it's actually R35. The following situation has been solved for decades: Every day you can listen to Radiožurnála, that in the High Myth area towards Litomyšl or to Hradec there is an accident. There's an accident every day. There are 22 fatal accidents on average every year. It is the hardest stretch between Holice and Litomyšl, the hardest stretch of transport ever. And cut to the chase. I've welcomed the 16 times. The Road and Motorway Directorate in the Pardubice Region also claimed that there was enough money to buy 16 times. We were still living in conviction or believing that there was enough money. All of a sudden, it's eight times that. And on the other hand, I don't think it's gonna speed up construction, that it's gonna slow down, because people aren't gonna sell it for eight times that. So we're gonna sue each other forever. And it won't speed up the R35 construction. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u23	Thank you. Now, please contact Mr Stanjura's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u24	Just a brief reaction to the last two performances. The opposite is true. We'll tell each other in a year so we don't fight here. Clear rules, good price - speed up. The 16 times was almost not used because it was very difficult to justify why to do so. Eight times isn't really small money, I'd say that's a fair price. It's not like it wants to stand for free, and at the same time, the normal, reasonable owners who support, for example, the creation of a double R35 will definitely sell it at this price. What Mr Šidlo said - nothing prevents it. I'm one of the submitters. I didn't think it was necessary myself. I think it was a false procedure by the former Minister of Transport, who said: to buy out only the state, not the cities and municipalities. I think it is much better to involve cities and municipalities, because they have one terrible advantage against this law. In justified or conflict situations, they can increase the price or buy out part of the land other than that needed for ŘSD or SŽDC, because maybe some owner doesn't want to sell just a belt of the land, but wants to sell the whole field. And that's what we have self-government for. Many city halls and many regions do so. They don't need... On the contrary, when they need eight times and some ill-advised opposition, for example, would attack them that the price is not adequate, they can lean on this diction of the law and say: for example, the state also buys out eight times, so do not say that it was not an economical use by the city. But we could say here dozens of cases where the intervention of the government actually helped, for example, that it bought the house for a higher value than the state could offer, bought the inside of the roundabout, the related belts, and thus helped. So the role of self-government is very important. I don't think they need it for that. On the contrary, clear pricing rules may simplify the consultation of the councils and, where appropriate, justify a higher price than the price of the expert's opinion or the price at the place normal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u25	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant or rapporteur whether they are interested in final words. It's not like that. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I shall make a motion for a resolution. Before I do, I'm going to sign you off, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. So now the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 628 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 31, to which 151 are registered, for 125, against 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I am now initiating a detailed debate. I merely point out that amendments or other proposals cannot be tabled in a detailed debate and only a correction of the date of effectiveness in the draft law and its legislative technical, grammatical, written or print errors can be proposed. I do not register an application, so I conclude a detailed debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words - the appellant. It's not like that. The rapporteur? Sorry. The rapporteur, the appellant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u26	I can't do it, I'll say one sentence. Once again, I would like to thank you very much for your support across the Chamber of Deputies. I'm gonna lighten this up a little bit. Originally, I was going to say it would be 100%, so it was almost 100%, maybe ninety-five. I really appreciate it, colleagues, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-006-124.u27	Thank you. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the motion of Members Martin Kolovratník, Jan Birke, Zbyněk Stanjura, František Laudát and others to issue a law amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure, as amended, and Act No. 184/2006 Coll., on the withdrawal or limitation of ownership of land or construction, as amended, according to the House Press 628." [[Law on expropriation]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 32, to which 153 are registered, for 131, against no one. I state that the bill has been approved, and that is the end of this discussion. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
