ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u1	214. The draft law amending Act No. 243/2000 Coll., on the budgetary determination of the revenues of certain taxes to local authorities and certain state funds (the Act on budgetary determination of taxes), as amended (the Parliamentary Press 416/5 - returned to the Senate) We are in an adjourned debate and Mr Zahradník is registered because the factual remarks have been exhausted. [[This is Mr. Faltynek.]] Yes, Mr Faltýnek wants to exercise priority rights. Please. Mr President, would you like to exercise priority rights? Okay. With priority right before Mr.Faltynek, Mr.Faltýnek, a fellow Zahradník, as chairman of the club YES. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to make one request. We have basically two options in the case of this law in front of us on the table. One is senate. I note that this is not a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, and I do not understand much the whole long debate, when the Minister is being attacked here, when it is a Senate proposal, the senator's proposal. And then there's a version of Houses on the table. So, basically, we just have, I think, two options for something to be true from next year. But I don't want to provoke any more debate, I apologize to those whom I may have touched with this short speech. And a question from my colleague Kovářová. We approved the budget in Prostějov on Monday, as usual a balanced budget of around CZK less than billion. After all, you all know that the city of Prostějov has never had any debts and manages a surplus budget. But the answer to the specific question that came up here. I really didn't know it at the club, so I figured out what it was like. If the city of Prostějov after adoption of the Senate version gets potentially to a plus or a minus. So, in the current state, income is at 27.83 percent 225 miles. Crowns. They're picking up about 6 miles on the increase. The koruna and at the same time are reduced by 2.8 million. koruna, i.e. 30% of the income tax on self-employed persons. The city of Prostějov will be plus 3.2 miles. Kroner, if she'd gone through the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u3	Thank you. Now, Mrs Kovářová, with a point of fact. Mr Adamec with a point of fact, then finally Mr zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u4	Mr President, that is how Prostějov is lucky. Because I have to say that I received a horrified text from Mr. Mayor of Černošice, who then sent what personal income taxes look like, and stable for several years they have 6 million. So they're going to have a blackout of $6 million, and with VAT, it's going to be plus a million. That means a total of minus 5 million for Černošice. And that's not Prostějov. It's a relatively small town. If there are more of these communities, you have something to look forward to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u5	Thank you. Mr Adamec is now also making a point of fact. Then, with a factual remark, Vice-President Gazdík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. Well, of course, someone's gonna be a plus, someone's gonna be a minus. There's no other way, because the money is being redistributed between municipalities. But of course I don't mind. I think that growth will always look the way the House simply agrees. What political will there will be here, what the system of the RUD will be, but it still needs to be remembered that it is only one pile that is constantly redistributing. Someone gets it more, somebody gets it less. Somewhere there are more rules that encourage the activities of municipalities in certain areas, sometimes less. The minister here spoke of tax collection. I was very glad to hear that more taxes are being collected. Well, if there's economic growth, it would be very strange. But I can't confirm the numbers yet, because I'm waiting for it to come from redistributing it from the RUD to the village where I live and in which I'm concerned. But on my point of fact. You know, everything can be done, but changing the system by Senate design in my opinion, it's a bit of a mess. We'll get rid of the debate, which is why it takes so long for plenary here. Instead of talking about it somewhere else on the committees, it's just going to be done in this way. And it's a very serious hit, even if somebody here says it's not enough money, etc. Let's just call it what we want, but it's a serious hit. I'd say there's no such thing as einmal ist keinmal, as they say. This is for other life situations. Once the system's broken, it's always done. Then let's not let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u7	I thank Mr Adamc for his time on the point of fact. Vice-President Gazdík also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u8	First of all, I would like to congratulate President Faltýnek through the Vice-President that his Prostějov will make a profit next year. But Prime Minister Faltýnek stumbled upon the core of the poodle. [[A note from the diaper.]] In the next one, in the first year, yeah. However, we do not constitute a bill on the budgetary determination of taxes for one year. We're supposed to find a system of law. We need to know how to breathe with the state budget. How the system will work. Please, the situation that we have come to, when there is a Senate proposal here, which is simply not analyzed, when we do not have numbers, at the same time we cannot deprive the regions of an increase in the budgetary determination of taxes, so it is probably the most sensible to adopt the House version. And the minister here has made a clear promise to perform the analysis. That his ministry will be working on it next year. Let us present next year a new version of the budgetary tax determination of municipalities, in which we analyse the problem of education, which we do not know what it has done in the last two years, and we will add to this the abolition or processing of the motivational component on how the municipalities will be motivated to create jobs in the future and support the business environment. These are two problems and two tasks that we can solve next year, and I think the only way to solve this is to not accept the Senate version, accept the House version and get back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u9	I thank the Vice-President for his time. Mr Zahradník has now entered into a proper debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u10	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, Mr Senator, Minister. Well, third time's the charm, I'm getting to this counter. I hope no one with priority rights is gonna push me out of here anymore. Not that I would like to convey some fundamental things of world importance, but, to be honest, between the moment I came forward for the debate, and this is the moment that the great time has passed, and many of this has already been said. As a teacher, I'm a friend of the password, that repetition is the mother of wisdom. So maybe I'll reminisce some things. First of all, I would like to go back to what the President of the club YES, Mr Faltýnek, said. These are actually two options, but both of them are very hard for me to accept as an ex, or actually a contemporary, but long-term municipal and regional policy. Therefore, in my speech, I will try to turn you away from the confirmation of the Senate proposal, but possibly from the approval of the House's proposal and the adoption of a completely different position on the financing of municipalities. The financing of municipalities is complicated and very sensitive. And the very origin of the foundation, from which the RUD is determined, is the subject of some distant past, when communities were formed after the Velvet Revolution. For the regions that arose before 2000 or 2000 and their financing was made before 2000, we have this in our living memory. We remember well how finance was created for the regions. How all the flows that flowed into the region from different sources were added, and then the basis was made, and then the percentage of membership to the regions is calculated. Thus, individual, five decimals or six decimal places, calculated by the percentage shares in which the regions participate in shared taxes. [[16.10 hours]] As a regional governor, I actually watched the financing of municipalities from two titles. For one thing, I felt and the region felt that it had to be part of the bloodstream of the communal and regional economy. And secondly, because from time to time more or less it belonged to us to control the management of municipalities, so we could see how municipalities deal with the difficult task of managing public things and how their financing gradually improved, whether in terms of the correctness of their accounting, but also in terms of their direction to austerity, to the investigation, to meaningful spending of funds. Therefore, Minister Babiš can say that the municipalities are well managed, that many of them have saved money in their accounts. I regret that this argument, among other things, has also justified the fact that it is not a great will for municipalities to add money to their tax revenues. In the same way, we watched many municipalities try to get successful entrepreneurs to settle in their territory and contribute to them precisely because of the existence of the motivational component in their budgets. I've always been a fan of this, and I've always been a friend of this, so that the road to success has some real goal, so that it can manifest itself not only in the satisfaction of those actors, mayors, councillors, entrepreneurs themselves, but also in their financial economic success. Apparently, this government, which tends more to socialist perceptions of the world, is going to try to eliminate this challenge that can stand before the municipal authorities. Finally, but last but not least, I want to mention one thing that unfortunately is not often mentioned here in our House, and that is that we have actually been standing in the middle for quite a long time, within the programming period of European funds. The programming period started in 2014 and in a few days we will actually end in the second year of the programming period. And we have to admit, so far, no money has been drawn from our republic. We have not yet received any money from the EU in this period. So we just have to try. We're running out of time, and we can imagine what's going to happen around 2020. There'll be crisis scenarios again, and we'll be dealing with it again, so we don't lose the money, so we don't lose it. As we well know, the territorial dimension programmes, regional dimensions, are an important part of the European funds. The municipalities will play an important role here in a certain part of them. We have two types, or three types, actually. Integrated territorial investment, there will be those successful regions or those successful large regions that earned it. Then we have a type of integrated plan for the development of territories, where the less successful regions belong in the negotiations, i.e. Jihlava, Zlín, Liberec, I think, České Budějovice, and it is in these cities and municipalities, their planned region, that will be the weight of project preparation and the provision of money for these projects. They will have to co-finance from their sources and they will have to pre-finance these funds. This prefinancing entails the need for funding. The municipalities may borrow it, which, of course, they may be able to repay, but there is a certain obligation to co-finance. And here I think that we should be aware that the municipalities will need more money to make European money that we are entitled to, which actually comes from our contributions that our Republic is sending to Brussels so that our communities can draw on this money and implement meaningful projects. We just don't give them the chance. And the fact that the Minister of Finance is saying that he estimates that the balance of the VAT addition and the abolition of the incentive pillar will be in favour of the VAT increase, that is merely a hypothesis. This is a mere hypothesis, an assumption which, in order to be confirmed, would have to somehow exist an environment. And since the incentive pillar will be abolished, there will be no room for real verification in the future and not just for the moment to set some forecasts. There's no method of proof other than proof of reality. And unfortunately, we won't be able to experience that, because the motivational pillar will be abolished. So I intercede for that, and I think that the vast majority of municipalities, at least I mean those municipalities that will just have to bear the weight of co-financing European projects, i.e. the municipalities that are combined in the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, so that we give them a chance to participate in the money and revise this law of ours, return it back to recasting and to municipalities as much as the regions to add. I don't mind if the county gets the money, they need it. The captains will face the election campaign next year, they will certainly be happy to be able to report for the money they receive with proper success. As a regional politician, I wish it to the regions and their citizens with all my heart, but I am just saying, if we add it to the regions, then let us add it to the municipalities as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u11	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. We will continue the discussion with Mr Petr Bendl, Mrs Kovářová has exhausted her application in a factual note. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u12	I will not be long, thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I have announced in a technical note that I will submit a motion for an accompanying resolution, which I would like to put to the vote if the Senate version of the proposal on the budgetary determination of taxes passes. The accompanying resolution reads: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Finance to submit immediately to Members of the Chamber of Deputies the implications of the Senate proposal for budgetary determination of taxes to the budgets of cities and municipalities. From the words of the Finance Minister, who said here that it was... that we had over 6,000 municipalities and that it had a negative impact on 4,000 of them, but that he wasn't able to calculate it, I quickly understood that he probably didn't have the analysis at all. Because if he had it, someone from the Treasury Department would be able to bring her here. That is why I am giving the motion for this accompanying resolution to the Ministry of Finance, in the event that a version of the budget tax determination proposed by the Senate is adopted, so that we all know and therefore at least have back-up information about what we are about or what you are about, because I am not prepared to support the Senate bill that you voted on and what you actually supported in your wake. Whether it is minus CZK 690 million in Prague and CZK 3 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov or CZK 5 million in Přerov.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u13	Thank you. I understand the application of the Minister of Finance, Vice-President of the Government. In the debate or in the final word? In the debate. [[The final word.]] In the final word. Okay. In that case, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u14	Thank you for the floor. I will criticize the senators in particular to be fair, because it is not a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, even if the Ministry of Finance may have written it or expressed it positively. It won't let me go back a little bit. The last significant change in the budgetary determination of taxes has been in force since 1 January 2013. For two years we negotiated this within the then government coalition and also with the opposition. We had tables available for each community. We had a summary for each community to know, in the case of which variants it would be. Of course, it was a static calculation from the last closed year, because it makes no sense to estimate at the same time the dynamics of government budgets' income and at the same time projecting it into that income. You must have a static number, e.g. the result of 2014, and you can model on this individual changes. If we stick to this change in terms of regions, all 14 regions know exactly how much, if we approve it, it will bring them next year. Again, in the static calculation, I can estimate some growth. And many regions, maybe all, already have it in approved budgets for 2016. We voted in favour of the House version, and we are rarely changing our minds and will again support the House version. The main reason isn't that the Senate came up with any change. The main reason is this particular change. The parameter is not changing, which were our amendments in the Chamber of Deputies, whether Mrs Kovářová or Mr Vilímec. We didn't change the system, we just changed the parameters for 2016, 2017, 2018. Our proposals, the Civil Democrats, were distributed over time, so the Ministry could prepare for this, or we agreed with the Ministry of Finance - in principle we agreed on what our proposals would mean in the static calculation, roughly plus 3.5 billion. the first proposal for 2017 and another 6.5 billion. a proposal for 2018. For those who don't remember, the significant change that has been going on since January 1 also changed the system, not just the rates. From the 14 zones of the size of the village we produced 4, aside from the 4 largest cities, which have coefficients separately. At the same time, we avoided it - it was quite comical, trying to get one extra citizen. I remember the unnamed county town of Jihlava, whose population oscillated around 50 thousand, so de facto they tried in sports terminology when you buy players, buying citizens to cross the 50 thousand border, because that difference of 50 thousand. and one citizen to 49 999 was tens of millions in order. We've changed the system that if you have 50,000 plus one, even though now the highest limit is 30 thousand. plus one, so the higher rate applies only to one citizen, or to hundreds of citizens of this overlap. We also changed coefficients after a long debate. That's what Vice-President Gazdík was talking about. We have introduced 7 percent of the distribution of money for municipalities according to the number of pupils. We said it was supposed to be a motivation for municipalities and a reward for those municipalities that set up schools and have a lot of costs. Of course, those municipalities that don't set up schools and don't have these costs, so they don't get the money from the budget tax determination. This was also an incentive component in terms of: it pays you, especially for smaller municipalities, to continue to run the school. Because it's very good that there's a school in that village. And the undignified debates that many of us remember ended about what non-investment spending on the operation of the school required by operators in the larger city, for example, from pupils from the surrounding municipalities and from the municipal budget. We also discussed and corrected the parameter that was the area of the territory for a long time. To tell you the truth, some communities went through with the 2013 change because they made enormous money from having a large cadastral. This concerned several municipalities, which really had several hundred inhabitants and yet a huge cadastral. I'm just reminding you, and so does Senator Martínek, because I know that he's been dealing with this issue for a long time, that we've had software publicly accessible to every community so that they can know what happens when we put 7 percent on school, 5 percent on school, 3 percent - nothing at all. The debate wasn't easy at all. With Petr Gazdík, who I don't see here at the moment, we have been conducting these negotiations on behalf of our political parties and have long been looking for a compromise. But, of course, we communicated with colleagues from social democracy, because there are many local politicians in their ranks. The original proposal, remember, took away the four largest cities over 5.5 billion, then we found a compromise that was much more merciful to the great cities. At the same time, we allocated 80 percent of the newly introduced gambling tax to urban budgets to the municipal good that had previously been available to the betting office. So even for the four cities that lost part of their tax revenue in the static calculation, it could compensate - or their decision "will be a gamble, it won't be as big a gamble" according to which she either had the funds or didn't. The key thing is that we have increased the resources overall by about 12 billion. Kč. So the pie that's split, and the debate is always complicated, which parameter, what weight, we've raised by 12 billion. CZK, at the expense of mostly grant titles, Czech grant titles. Because the grant title, in its essence, is unfair. Because you will write a grant title to support e.g. Firehouses. Some succeed, some do not, but in principle everyone needs it. So what I'm blaming the senators for is just, like, side by side, without any impact, they suggested that the motivational file be removed. If they had just left the 20.89 and didn't cancel the motivational file, which means the state would feel the increase in money, we wouldn't be having such a long debate, and I'm sure she would have gone through the Senate version. Because, by the way, this was in line with the rejected amendments from the right-wing opposition in the Chamber of Deputies at the final third reading. That there at the last minute - whether after consultation or at the request of the Ministry of Finance, it is not important, because the senators who voted for it are responsible - have given the cancellation of the motivational component, which they are unable to document for each community whether it is a plus or a minus... We can't all call our city budget like Mr. Faltýnek, as it will be in Prostějov. Plus, when the economy's growing. I'd be interested in the minus 2.8 miles. 30 percent of what year it is. We haven't closed this year yet. 2014? Maybe. 4,5 or 4,9 %. Growing 2.5 this year. And they already know that the 2.8 would be the same in 2017 as in 2014. Quite a bold prognosis. I don't see why not. I say we stick to static numbers to be able to estimate somehow. That's in our opinion, not my personal, but you know that there are a lot of experienced municipal politicians in our club, whether current or former, why, we recommend rejecting the Senate version. [[Reasons]] If I recall correctly, for the MP version, when we voted on it, almost everyone was present. That number was about 150 out of 160, something like that. So I'm not worried about both versions and regions falling under the table. On this we agreed that the adjustment of the VAT parameter will pass to the regions. Imagine what would happen if we, in our third reading, suddenly changed the system of redistributing money between regions. I think that my colleague, Mr Zahradník, here as a memoir, explained how difficult it was to come up, how difficult the agreements were, what everything was counting, and this resulted in the numbers, which have about 6 digits behind the decimal point, and many regions, for example. My Moravian-Silesian, structurally disabled, frankly, doesn't understand why he's got the most on his mind, and they're different regions. Answers again - we have a bigger cadaster, we have more kilometers. So the debate is really very complicated. And changing the system like that, Senator, don't be mad at me, it's not good. If it was the price that the Treasury gave you a positive opinion on 20 whole - 21.4 then the price is disproportionately high. If it wasn't a price and you thought of it as a good idea, I just don't think it's a good idea. And if we want to raise the incomes of municipalities, and we want that from 1 January 2017, we have enough time to either change, and I would argue for that, only the VAT parameters. And that's a political debate. There we model it very quickly. If we want to change the system, it will not be in this parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies. As of 1 January 2017, we are unable - I remember the debate with all those involved from the smallest communities to this... We're going to count -- someone wanted altitude, remember, we're going to add to the cadastrals, we're going to reduce to the cadastrals. We're gonna raise? We also changed the fact that about 10 percent of tax revenue is divided into heads without size coefficients, so we made 14 sizes into 4. If we go into that system, we're going to have a really two-year-old debate with uncertain results. [[16.30 hours]] So I recommend the House version. Let's get back to it in January. Let us discuss how much we will increase the share of municipalities in VAT. That's a pretty good thing to do in these static models. We'll have the numbers for 2015. It'll be closed. In the middle of January, we will know not only how much went in the package for cities and municipalities, but we can have a table of 6 245 municipalities finished in January, what were VAT revenues 2014, 2015, 2013 and what would have done in the static calculation any change in VAT. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u15	I thank Mr Stanjur. With a factual remark, Mr Zahradník. President Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u16	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would like to mention one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, after all. The Sub-Committee on European Funds and Cross-border Cooperation, set up by the Committee on European Affairs, has planned, together with the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, a round table for the second programming period. We held such a round table a year ago with quite a good response, so we are going to make the round table even at the beginning of next year. Madame Šlechtová promised to participate with her team. Representatives of the governing bodies at ministries will be invited. We also want and will invite the Association of Regions, the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, the Association of Local Government, Economic Chambers and representatives of those institutions and companies that will prepare projects. I already know the term. It will be held on February 18th. Of course, you'll all be invited, you'll all get an invitation. Of course, the debate can also be quite broad from the point of view of possible co-financing of European projects. I believe the Minister of Finance will also send someone from his ministry. And we'd like the senator, the former MP and the governor to come and see us, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u17	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. And now, with priority rights, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A colleague of Stanjura had discussed whose idea it was to cancel the 30 percent motivational component. I remind you that it was once 100%, and it was reduced to 30 percent by some mayors who made so-called tax havens, so it had to be reduced to 30 percent. But the 30 percent was a society-wide agreement that maintained some motivation in municipal councils to create a business-friendly environment. Unfortunately, I have reason to believe that the idea of abolishing this file did not come from the head of any senator that he came from the Treasury Department. The amendment was also written at the Ministry of Finance. And the impact is very simple. It simply ends any motivation of the council, council or mayor to help himself, to be motivated to create a business-friendly environment, and it's just another step in the many etatisations that this government is carrying out. The less you can have your own will to help yourself to your own income, the more dependent on the state, the more dependent on the Ministry of Finance. Then the mayor will have one option: to influence birth rates, because the population is a key parameter within the RUD. But that's not entirely fair to ask for worries, especially seniors. And there's no other activity that the mayor can pursue. It will depend on the calculation of the RUD established by law and will depend on subsidies, i.e. because of the finance minister in particular: I will give you, not you - depending on whether you are angry or not. It's the next step towards addiction. It's the next step towards etatisation. It is the next step towards the oligarchisation of state administration and public administration. It can't be supported! As much as we would like it to be just as fair as the government has corrected the coefficient to the regions, so as to correct it to the municipalities. We've suggested it many times. So this is another etatization oligarchizing step that can support Agrofert's political division. She's set up to run this place by an oligarch. Devotive Members cannot support this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u19	So that was Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. One more point in fact, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u20	Thank you. I would just ask the Minister if he could respond in any way to the case of Černošice, when indeed according to the tables that come from the financial office, Černošice came in this folder about seven or six million. And I'd like you to answer this question to me, as well as to the mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u21	Thank you. That was the last application for a debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. Final words? Mr. Senator? [[He doesn't want to.]] The Minister will comment on the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to start with my colleague Kovářová first. I texted Mr. Mayor, and I even talked to him, and he's doing great. He's got 117 million in his account. He's outnumbered 38.7. And even thanks to the Ministry of Finance, when we announced a program for the capacity of primary schools around Prague, which a colleague of the previous Minister Kalousek did not want to give you the money, remember, in the budget, I gave it to you then, we started in June 2014, we received 40 million. So it's not true that the impact on him is 7 million, but 2.3 million. What you desire is here. [[Shows a stack of paper size A3 in width.]] That's the analysis. It's 70 pages. The village around the village we've got it all figured out. Of course we did the math. So it's not true that we don't count. We're actually pretty good at the Treasury. So you wanted to know Prague. Prague received CZK 687 804 000 in 2014 and an increase, the changeling of the Senate, to CZK 21.4 plus CZK 596 million and the abolition of motivation minus 327. So Prague will make 273 million crowns on it. Yes? Someone was talking about the oligarchization. That's great that the oligarchs are affecting. So the bad oligarchs are actually saying that if you approve of the Senate proposal, you're going to support the 5 446 communities that are losing their motivation, and they're going to make a billion on it. 5 446 municipalities earn a billion if you approve the Senate proposal. And it is true that 707 municipalities will lose CZK 96 million in total. So once again, 5 446 municipalities make a billion and 707 lose 96 million. [[16.40 hours]] And I repeat what we're talking about today. We as the House approved the RUD for the regions and for the municipalities it was created in the Senate. And today we have the opportunity to either reject the Senate, which will damage 5 446 municipalities, or we can vote in favour of the original version of the House. But I think the Senate proposal is very good. And we have a village around the village. There it is, and it's very carefully calculated. [[He's showing the chart.]] Each community is counted. And the effects are different. Prostějov has 3.2 plus, Průhonice unfortunately 1.3 minus. So it's objective. They're numbers, they're statistics. So the motivation-- here's your motivation. Eight billion in 2005. And then what happened? Why it went down to 900 miles. In 2015? Well, since it was a joint taxation of spouses, a temporary cancellation of the obligation to pay advances to entities with a maximum of five employees, anti-crisis measures, exceptional depreciation and a discount for working pensioners. That's why the motivation is disadvantageous for the vast majority of communities today. And we're talking 900 miles. Crowns. So nothing's the debate. Nothing. And we made it clear that we were going to go back to the RUD for the municipalities, that's what we promised here, and I repeat, we definitely want to get back to it. And that, of course, these calculations are available. But today the proposal favours the vast majority, 5 446 municipalities, and 707 municipalities lose 96 million. And, of course, with the next budget and debate, we can get back to that and, of course, we can compensate the other municipalities. It's on the table today, and I think it's better to support the proposal, because we're gonna support most of the municipalities. So there's a will, and we've always said that we want to support the communities, and that's how we support them. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u23	Thank you, Minister. We'll continue with the final words. But I have before them, Senator, wait until further notice, because there is a priority right here for President Kalousek and Chairman Stanjura. So my colleague Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u24	Thank you. I won't be long delaying, just, Minister, the verbs you use, and I warn you that they are the same in Slovak, so there can be no mistake that the verbs you use clearly illustrate the difference of opinion between us here. You say Prague gets, this community gets, this community doesn't get, it gets more, it gets less. Speaking of RUD, these communities are getting nothing. Your Financial Administration collects for them taxes to which they are legally entitled. It's like a service. Not as a gift from you. That means they don't get anything out of taxes. And as for the grant title, they don't get it from you, just like they didn't get it from Kalousek. He will either appoint them or not appoint the Chamber of Deputies. You still have that system of regional and local national committees in front of you, where the comrade secretary-general divided up, who gets what or doesn't get to whom the ruler gives or doesn't give. And that's exactly how you see it. Prague will get it! Prague won't get anything! For Prague, you collect taxes to which it is entitled by law. And now you're pushing the amendment so that she can't influence her claim by making her decision, like thousands of other municipalities, because you're gonna take the incentive factor away from them. So that they can't influence their income with their free choice. 'Cause you're the only one who can decide that, the governor, the high-level stairs, the oligarch. And your own words convict you of this philosophy when you say that the community gets something from you or it doesn't. We must decide whether we want the government and its members to be servicers or rulers. We want it to be a service that governs the country according to the rules. Not a ruler who rules according to his will. That's the big difference. We will also vote on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u25	Now, Mr Stanjura with priority rights. Then we will return to the presentation of the Senate representative and the rapporteurs. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u26	Of course, we can applaud what we want in the Chamber of Deputies. But sometimes the logic really gets the hang of it. The Minister of Finance said: It is true that Prague got 700 million out of 30 percent, but if we cross it off, it's minus 300. Some colleagues, colleagues, certainly those who have never dealt with RUD applaud. That's clearly a contradiction. You heard two numbers in one sentence. Prague gets 700, and if we cross it off, the loss for Prague is 300...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u27	Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u28	I'd like you to set things straight. So the minister wouldn't yell at me. I quote his words he used three minutes ago. That's all. Then we can pull up the tape screen when it is, and I'm not saying any opinions of my own. The difference between what we proposed in the Chamber of Deputies is that all municipalities would improve, 6 245. All communities. And you, my dear friends, have refused. Don't act like you want to help the village today. I told you once. I do not know why both Senator Martínek and his colleagues refused to help all the municipalities and chose, for example, 5,000 municipalities. We don't have the analysis, I believe the number the Minister of Finance said. Then why did you sacrifice 1,250 communities to lose on it? I don't understand at all. Either you want to help the municipalities or you don't. If you want to help them, you also had in the Senate, for example, the resolution of your public administration committee, as far as I know, quite consensually, which helped all municipalities. No, you and your colleagues chose only some communities! And you're really changing the system. And now I don't know. The Minister of Finance says: We are going to work on this now, and we are going to change that from 2017. At the same time, he says: But approve the law that changes it from 1 January 2017. So what will apply from 1 January 2017? What do you approve today, or what you'll be working on next year? And you mean that you want to change that from January 1, 2017, as the Minister of Finance said? So why are you changing it today if you want to debate it in the next few months, have working groups where you'll be inviting representatives of the MPs? So what are we gonna do there? What's the ambition of the task force? When is the new law that you and the working group want to work on? January 1st, 2017? So why are we adopting the Senate version today? Or you want to accept. We're not voting for her, then. I don't understand. If you said, "Say the Senate version, and for this term, we end with a change in the RUD for the municipalities," I would not agree, but I would understand. And you say at the same time, "Praise what's on your desk, and I promise you I'll change it in a year"! Before it's effective! Well, then it's not normal. How are these mayors supposed to plan the years 2017, 2018? What's going to happen? What do we possibly approve today? Or what we might possibly approve in September next year or October? I think I've said this once before, it's better to vote in favour of the House version. Senate refuse, take seriously the Minister of Finance's offer, try to work it out, give the spreadsheets to all the mayors. Not that it's just the Treasury Secretary. I've got it here! Well, we don't have it! Well, that's not a balanced debate, if one has the evidence and the other doesn't have the evidence. And that's what I blame the senators for. You had them? My fellow Senators from the ODS club say that they did not have a table on the impact on particular municipalities at the time of the vote. So maybe someone had it exclusive, but they just didn't share the information. And that's just wrong. This is not the way to proceed in the case of a law that really touches 6 245 municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u29	That was a colleague of Stanjura. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no debate, I will not allow any factual comment, but Senator Radko Martínek will speak, and then there will be a chance for fellow Member Volný and colleague Kovářová to speak as rapporteurs. But with the summary of the debate as rapporteurs, not with their speech but with the rapporteur's. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u30	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My serious colleagues, my colleagues, first of all, I'm going to put personal attacks aside because everyone has some kind of culture, that's how they manifest themselves. On the contrary, I want to thank all of you for the fact that the debate here this afternoon is completely different than it was in the morning, and I think that whether we can agree or disagree with what our colleagues said here this afternoon or not, it was cultivated. What I've been through this morning, all I can do is shrug my shoulders. I'd like to explain to you how it really was when colleague Stanjura here said what he said. I was the rapporteur for this bill. I received an amendment, which increased the incomes of municipalities by CZK 11 billion in two years, the night before the committee that was to discuss it met. Since I have been in the House and the Senate for quite a long time, I say quite clearly that it did not exist, and there will not be a finance minister or a prime minister who would have been allowed to intervene in this way in the budget, and it is therefore quite clear that if we had approved what some proposed there, today you were in a situation where you would have decided whether the budget would have been hit by 9 billion or 11 billion at two years, and the government coalition would necessarily have to reject it and, of course, you would have figured out what the reaction would have been and what would have been happening here today. I say quite clearly here that this proposal is a compromise, it is a compromise between the Ministry of Finance and the Senate, it is a compromise that has been made in relatively great time constraints, and I appreciate that we have found the compromise, regardless of the fact that in the Senate, the Minister has promised that, in some stages, the community will also be reimbursed the contribution to the public administration that has been withdrawn, and just as he has promised here that the entire situation of the RUD will be discussed intensively next year, and I have no reason to doubt that. I think, if what's important and what's not important has been said here today. Just take the law. This law was sent by the government to the Chamber of Deputies in February this year. We in the Senate got him at the end of November, respectively. December, and at the moment we discussed it, it was actually the last time we could return you here to the Chamber of Deputies, the law so that you could still discuss it so that it would apply from 1. 1st of next year. By the way, a week later, we had two more laws to apply from 1. 1. 2016, and you couldn't even come back here with the amendments, because if we had returned them, we knew they wouldn't pay. That's the position the Senate was in. And I just don't want to comment on the way the negotiations are going in the Chamber of Deputies. All of you are involved in this, and you have to decide what is reasonable and what is not reasonable. As far as what is undoubted about this law is concerned, I must say quite clearly, and I am glad that the Minister has said here that, of course, there is a calculation for each individual community. Once upon a time these calculations were created here in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance officials on my own computer, two years were on my computer, then an analytical team was created, and since then the Ministry of Finance, as everyone who worked in finance knows, every year has a detailed overview of every community, every tax that (?) The community gets it. Therefore, it is clear that the Ministry of Finance and the analytical department, respectively. Unit 12 workers, they're capable of doing these things here. As far as hard numbers are concerned, so hard figures about tax, so we're talking about the other tax, the tax on self-employed persons, so it's evolving, unfortunately it's in this small graph, but it's evolving so that it keeps falling from 2005 to 2015. This means that everyone who predicts is quite clear that this tax has a constantly long-term downward trend. And even though it has fallen from eight billion to about one billion crowns since 2005, regardless of who ruled. That's pretty obvious. At this point, it's pretty clear that the original plan is just somewhere else. The motivation isn't from this tax. Moreover, it is a tax that is really the only one, the fluctuations are so big that you can't really forecast it, while all other taxes can be forecasted fairly well. We talked about Prague here. And if Prague on this tax - the figures that were based on this amendment - are, of course, hard figures from 2014. And if Prague had 689 million 629 from this tax in 2014 and you ask how one Prague had these taxes far the largest of all municipalities in the Republic, it can be said that it represents almost two thirds of all taxes on this type of tax collected. Is Prague really so much better at creating positions for entrepreneurs like all the municipalities of the Czech Republic together? Or is it something else? I personally think, no matter how it turns out, I think that the change is a rescue for Prague at the moment when it really happens that the financial authorities in Prague really start to control the entrepreneurs, because it is a completely public secret that all of us, from the countryside, simply those natural persons fled to Prague because they had constant control there, while they didn't have it here. And if someone does something about this, it's clear that this number is definitely going to shrink. There's no doubt about that. What is tragic for almost 800 municipalities is that they do not have a crown on this tax, but they still have to pay a total of CZK 60 million. That means they get nothing, and out of all the other taxes, they still have to pay back to the tax office that continues to distribute it, CZK 60 million. I'm not going to say the other numbers, because the Minister described it correctly here, how much the municipalities are making and how much they're losing. The problem with these reliefs is really intense. It is a problem which leads to the fact that reliefs are often very important, commendable, etc., but since the reliefs are realized by means of an additional tax return or tax return, unfortunately, the practice so far has been such that the returns go only and only to the municipalities. And that's not possible for it to continue to be that way, because it's really big money. I would also like to stress that this law is valid from next year, virtually. from 1. 1. 2017. This means that it is quite clear that further negotiations will be held on the budgetary determination of taxes. However, I would not be as optimistic as has recently been said here, because even if this agreement had taken place sometime in March, April of this year, I am just returning again to the fact that this bill, very simple for the regions, came here in February of this year, and we are discussing it now in December. So there are two things that come to me, two conclusions that I think I have a basis for, but of course I'm not taking anybody's opinion. Firstly, I believe that tax is exchanged uncertain and constantly declining for a very certain tax, which is VAT in the long run, and VAT is rising in the long term. This means, for the municipalities it is certainly a move for the better. And as always in all the tax changes that have happened now, even those mentioned here by Mr Stanjura, my colleague Stanjura, I apologize, so there have always been municipalities that have paid for it. Any change in tax distribution always brings a couple of municipalities who lose. In that sense, I must say that the Permanent Treasury has always - always - tried to compensate those who were losing it. There is no doubt that it is in the power of the Treasury to compensate the few municipalities that are potentially going to take it away. Moreover, it is an amount that is clearly in the power of the Ministry of Finance. [[17,00 hours]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm not gonna keep you here any longer. I think the cards are clearly dealt. It shall be decided by the vote. I would like to ask you to vote. It's up to you how you vote. However, I would like to ask you to vote very carefully. In the first case of a Senate proposal, in my opinion, I think it will certainly do no harm to the municipalities. It is no miracle, but it will certainly do no harm to the municipalities, on the contrary, I think it creates a relatively good and favorable atmosphere for further negotiations. As for the other, it is a promise that was given long ago to the regions, they should have received it a few years ago and would have been given an increase only now. So I would ask you, if you do not approve of the Senate proposal, to vote in favour of the other, because even of the regional money, of course - the regional money is not going to the regions, but through the municipalities. So even the money that would increase the budgets of the regions is actually going to the municipalities. Well, if you don't approve of anything, nobody gets anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u31	Thank you, Senator Radek Martínek. Let's keep going. First, apologies to Mrs Helena Válková from 16.00 to the end of the day. And now, the rapporteur, Mr Volný, rapporteur Kovářová, has a priority right, Mr Kalousek, Mr Stanjura. The rapporteurs also have priority rights, and both the Presidents know that, so it is clear. Mr Free as rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, co-workers, I was a little upset today about the negotiation process. I really didn't understand why so many attacks on the Ministry of Finance, on Minister Babiš, when it was basically a returned law from the Senate. [[dissenting votes from the right]] [[applause from the right]] And today we stand before the vote - either we support the amendment prepared and tabled by the senators, or we stay with the option that we approved as the Chamber of Deputies. Nothing more, nothing less. That's why I didn't get it. Anyway, as a proper anal, I'm probably--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u33	Mr rapporteur, I am asking for a news report, not your personal appearance. I shall ask the same of my colleague Kovářová. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u34	Okay. From the whole discussion, communities will get a billion more in the clean, even if it is not quite so balanced. I therefore recommend supporting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u35	Have a good evening. Another with priority rights is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u36	Thank you. I have been invited to a brief summary of this discussion. Short summary. After two hours we were able to receive a report from the working group on the topic of budgetary determination of taxes. [[There's noise in the room.]] After about four or six more hours, I don't know exactly, we have an analysis available. I consider this to be quite a success when we have not yet had this at our disposal. I would also like to remind you that the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development voted in favour of the House version, as amended by the amendment, which also increased the VAT share to 21,4% for municipalities. Unfortunately, the debate has come up, and I must say that I regret that the Minister resorts to attacks and speeches in the context of the final word instead of open debate. An example was Černošice. It is not possible for the Minister to give examples, to call the mayor, to look at his accounts, and to call him and tell him that he has 117 miles in his account. and what else he'd want. I just have to state for the Minister that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u37	I'm sorry, Madam. It's supposed to be an intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u38	Yes, I will. Eighty million is debt, 80 million will invest. In short, communities have their savings to invest. I had to say this as rapporteur because the Minister simply does not understand this issue well! And I won't say any more because I'd really have to take advantage of my intelligence role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u39	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u40	Thank you for the floor. I have come forward with something else, but before I say what I have claimed, I want to protest Mr Volný's speech as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets. He and Mrs Kovářová were specifically warned that they were here to interpret the resolution of their committee. Mrs Kovářová did so. [[Inadmissible votes from members of the YES.]] I did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u41	Quiet in the courtroom, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u42	Mr Volný as rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets has no mandate but to say that the Committee on Budgets has supported and supported the House version. No other mandate of the rapporteur shall be given to the Committee on Budgets. Mr Volný as a proper aňák has once again abused his position. Because he simply did not have a budget committee - I will refer to all the members of the budget committee and ask where he got the mandate of the budget committee to support the Senate version as rapporteur of the budget committee. He did not have such a mandate, even though he was specifically brought to the attention of the President. That's the reaction. In other words, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to say for the rapporteur who has embezzled his fate that the Committee on Budgets has no resolution other than the support of the House version. No other resolution has been adopted by the Committee. The chairman of the budget committee nods, thank you for confirming this to me. And now what I signed up for. I really don't think it's funny. Mr Martínek said that there is no finance minister who would be allowed to intervene in billions in a day-to-day budget. I remember that sometimes something like this happened to me, but I'm not gonna elaborate. It happened to me by the will of the Chamber of Deputies. But I do know that there is no finance minister who would ever agree to a change in the RUD system without going through the proper review procedure without being done by the RIA and without going through the legislative process through the first, second and third reading of the Chamber of Deputies. Here I dare say I know what I'm talking about. I am the author of two proposals that brought system change to the RUD. The first proposal removed significant discrimination against small municipalities because the difference between the largest and the smallest was seven times. This proposal was discussed with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, with the Association of Local Government, in working groups, sent to a commentary procedure, it was processed by the RIA, I had to... [[The speaker is silent. Mr Faltynek is speaking with another Member.]] I'll wait for Mr. Faltýnek to testify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u43	I will ask my fellow Members not to disturb the President in his speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u44	Thank you. I had to deal with the contradictions of this commentary procedure, I had to defend the law at first reading, I had to deal with the amendments at second reading, and at third reading it was approved. [[17.10 hours]] The second was a second systemic change, which slightly modified the indicator of the size of the village cadastral and added an indicator of the existence of the school and the number of pupils. And once again I had to repeat the same thing: commentary management, settlement of contradictions, working groups with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, Association of Local Authorities, first, second to third readings in the House. Then there was a point. Then it was worked out and discussed. If there is an amendment from the Senate regarding a mere parameter, please, I think we can vote on it with a calm conscience. But there is an amendment coming from the Senate that fundamentally changes the system's view of the budgetary determination of taxes and goes around the whole process without which I cannot imagine legitimate - it may be legal, but it will not be legitimate - without which I cannot imagine a legitimate adoption of the law, so that we can be sure that it went through our commentary procedure, that contradictions have been settled, that the RIA has been processed, that we have had the opportunity to express ourselves at second reading, that the second reading applies amendments, and that we have simply discussed it as such a fundamental systemic change is to be discussed. If it came from the Senate as an amendment, then this whole process, which we didn't set out for the fun of rabbits, we set it up so that we could have a maximum sense of certainty that we approve the laws responsibly, so we crossed the whole process off, wiped it out, and walked around it! Do you really think you have the right to do that? Do you really think that all the system changes we're supposed to go through to make us feel responsible for the work we've done can be thrown out the window like this because it's what Babiš wants? [[the speaker threw his hands up]] And cut it with one changeling, one changeling from the Senate? We have no right to do that. I don't think we should vote on this at all! And if he simply refrains from the Senate proposal, thanking the Senate for doing so, and so let the Ministry of Finance present it as a government proposal that will go through its ordinary legislative process. But if you blow it up now to agree on a proposal that went around the process, you'll resign from your job and your responsibility!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u45	I thank Prime Minister Kalousek. Another one with priority rights, last one, is President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman - so far the last, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u46	Well, I'd like to thank Mr. Senator, we've known each other for years, for an honest performance. And maybe he said more than he wanted, and I'll try to interpret it, or maybe he'll fix me. When I asked him why they didn't leave a mere increase in money for the municipalities, but they canceled the parameter, so he confessed out of fear of the finance minister. I'm not afraid of the finance minister. Not even close. You're already thinking tactically about what Babiš would say and how it would be in the coalition, and I don't think that would work. I understand, it's quite honest, but it's completely wrong. It's not true it's 11 billion at the age of two, but at the age of three, Senator. Three years old. We are only 2015 - 2016, 2017, 2018. If you are seriously trying to tell me that this government, which supposedly saves and buys the cheapest paper on the globe, is unable to find savings of between 10 and 11 billion in two years, which would end up in city and municipal budgets, you confirm what we say. This government will not save. He's throwing it away. Even the 11 billion, which is very low on taxes, is not able to save up in nearly three years that it would have to save up in 2018. So the Senators of Social Democracy were afraid of the Finance Minister, which is why they made this senseless suggestion to change the system. And they haven't even calculated the years after which the Treasury would have to do it. Secondly, the senator didn't answer my question about why they're taking some of the municipalities. When the rapporteur tells the Committee on Budgets that it's in the net, plus one billion, the senator says that municipalities get two billion in VAT, then logically, somewhere a billion goes missing. Perhaps we could agree with the members of the YES that two minus one is one. I don't know, though. So that one billion minus you're not taking the state and the state has 1,250 billion expenses. That's a problem, isn't it, finding one billion? Well, I'll take it to hundreds of communities! Then I'll take hundreds of municipalities. Why? Because I'm afraid of the finance minister. So really very simple. I could also cower my shoulders over what the upper chamber does. I'm not doing it. This, and the Senator has gone through this silently, is much more in the Senate than in the Chamber of Deputies, and the resolution of a committee recommending the amendment is very serious. It's not like that in our country, it's never been like that. I'm just saying, I'm not assessing whether it's better or worse. Why didn't the senator discuss what the Senate's specialized guarantee committee recommended to the Senate as a plenary? That's where the senators weren't afraid of the finance minister. That's when it was at the plenary. That's why. And on the other hand, I want to appreciate the honesty of the senator. I didn't say it would be parametric change that would apply on 1 January 2017. [[unintelligible]] We have a similar experience, and I don't think if anyone said it like that, they're not telling the truth. Change of system. Changing the VAT parameter yes, that's a political decision whether 21.89 - and now I'll make it up - or 22,2 or 22.4, it's simple. The moment we start the system change process, other coefficients, other parameters, if education is seven or nine percent, it's a two-year job. However, Mr... [[Restlessness and noise in the courtroom, notes from the diaper.]] Well, those who don't understand are laughing at it. I must say that the most irritating member of the YES movement is when there is a substantive debate. They're really upset. I don't know why. Maybe they could do it. So the famous committee, the working group on the RUD, as the minister here has promised several times how he will work on it, and the last time she met was November 23rd. And do you know when it's called for next time? Date of the next meeting: second or third quarter of 2016. That's the intensity, isn't it? That's quite a job! Second or third quarter. That means, even if it's September 30, 2016, it's actually working as planned, depending on how they wrote it down at the Ministry of Finance on November 23rd. I have to confirm the Senator's words, even though it seems funny to me when he's telling us so seriously: and now it's going to be decided by the vote. Yes, Senator, you're right. Now it's decided by the vote. I'm glad a member of the upper chamber reminded us, we wouldn't have figured it out ourselves. Unlike him, I recommend not voting for the Senate version. Not to say that I'm helping municipalities, maybe some. It should be said that the senators who voted in favour refused to help all the municipalities. And that's what their guarantee committee recommended. Yet in plenary they said that they would only help some municipalities. I agree with that. There's no dispute about that. The issue is that it's not enough, one billion. How much are we adding to the county? Isn't that 3.5 billion? Isn't it because the orange captains are getting ready for the election? And 3.5 billion is useful, isn't it? And then we're going to give 6 245 to five municipalities, not 3.5 billion, but one billion, and not next year, but two years from now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u47	I thank President Stanjur, and if no one else is claiming priority rights because the debate has been closed, we will proceed to the vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I'll check you all out first. Please sign up with your voting cards. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law amending Act No.243/2000 Coll., on the budgetary determination of the revenues of certain taxes to local authorities and certain state funds, as amended, according to the Chamber of Press 416/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the Chamber of Press 416/6.' [[Act on budgetary determination of taxes]] I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote No 314, 147 Members and Members registered, for 100, against 30, the proposal was adopted. [[Unique applause from the left side of the courtroom.]] [[17.20 hours]] Then we have the motion for an accompanying resolution, which was tabled by Mr Bendl. I will make a motion for an accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the Minister of Finance to submit immediately to Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic the effects of the Senate Bill on the budgetary determination of taxes in the budgets of cities and municipalities." The plaintiff agrees with this. I am opening the vote on this accompanying resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 315 vote, registered by 149 Members, for 76, against 50, and this proposal has also been adopted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate and have also adopted the accompanying resolution, as proposed by Mr Petr Bendl. I thank the senator and the minister. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u48	I respect, of course, the House of Deputies' resolution that it supported the Senate proposal, although I would like to point out that the person who voted in favour has indeed resigned to his work because he refused to do what the law requires of the Member to do. I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies for supporting Mr Bendl's proposal. I would just like to comment on our work responsibilities, that what we will be familiar with on the basis of this accompanying resolution, we should have got to know this before we raised our hand for anything, because otherwise we are just a bunch of clowns and not the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now with priority rights, President Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u50	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I have originally taken the floor with priority rights already in the course of the discussion of this just approved point. Then I downloaded my application knowing that any performance could trigger others' reactions. Because I cared very much for the law to be passed, so I did. I have applied now, and I have a great request for all those who have priority rights. I've already gotten used to it in the last few months at third reading that it is the final word of the plaintiff, then it is the final word of the rapporteur, and then it is the final word of a fellow Member of Stanjura. Today was the final word of the Minister, then the final word of Mr Stanjura, then the final word of the Senator, then the final word of Mr Stanjura again, and then several times more. I think that, although we all respect that Members with priority rights must be given the floor whenever they sign up for them, so that the legislator, who formed the Rules of Procedure, probably did not mean that we should have a discussion at these stages of the law. It has already happened here that people with priority rights came forward during the vote. I feel that this priority right is to serve for other comments in other moments. As we have seen here in recent weeks, I think it is not the use of preferential rights, but abuse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u51	Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman. [[A constant round of applause.]] Even though there is never enough, I beg President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u52	Don't you want to go to the thank-you card again? I understand Mr Sklenák, and I would even accept his comment from a certain point of view, but it is also a question of the fairness of the Minister's approach. Perhaps Mr Sklenák and some others will remember finance ministers who have never abused having a final word, after which they are no longer expected to speak, and have spoken at the end of the debate, before the debate has been closed, to say their reaction to the arguments that have fallen, and thus also to enable the House to respond to what they have said. That's a fair approach. If someone is silent about the whole discussion, they will text or deny it. He looks at the ceiling, and he just gets up, and in the final word after the discussion closes, he spews out his outrages, so he just can't be unresponsive. So it's not a unilateral process, it's a bilateral process. If the petitioner, and such are here, behaves fairly within the discussion, there is no need to respond to the final word. But this is not an example of a contemporary translator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u53	Thank you to President Kalousek. The next item on our agenda... President Fiala, I am sorry, Mr President, I have overlooked you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u54	I'm one of those who rarely exercise preferential rights. Anyway, that's true, look at the records of you laughing. However, in order for the President of the Social Democracy Club, whom I address through the President, here, to preach to us about when we can and cannot use our preferential right, I consider this completely unacceptable. [[Room noise]] It is a pity that those Members who are now screaming and calling on me did not shout it and did not call the President who was in charge of the meeting last Friday when my preferential right was withdrawn in violation of the Rules of Procedure and I could not complete my speech. I want to tell you something else. To a certain extent, President Kalousek has already said so. We don't often hear any answers to our material questions here, we don't know from the ministers what we're asking them. We will learn a few notes or political messages in the final words, but we will rarely have that in order to hear the answers to what is being discussed here. Look at today's course of this debate. We wanted an analysis, we asked about her, we talked about it - when did the Minister of Finance speak with her? Well, in the final word. Analysis that others didn't have at their disposal. So isn't that why, on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party MP, anyone who can speak, that is, President Stanjura, should comment on this? That's why. And I'll tell you what makes you so angry at President Stanjura's performance, who has been mentioned here several times by President Sklenák. It upsets you that he argues factually, has read the materials, understands it and asks you questions you can't answer. That's why the French applause and the hysteria.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u55	Mr. Chairman of the KSČM MP's club Pavel Kováčik with priority rights now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all in this pre-Christmas time. It is obvious that we really need many of these holidays. You know, you're not supposed to blame each other. President Fiala was not here, so he cannot remember that similar situations took place here at a time when the right-wing government was here, under the leadership of the ODS as a rule, and when ministers did not go to interpelation, and when we also stormed here that ministers should come to those interpelations, that they should have the decency to show up at least occasionally when a Member or a Member wants to ask them something. And that this disdain for the House, which we sometimes hear from the right-wing opposition, that it was similar here during its reign, admit that it is just the case. [[17.30 hours]] And these stretch marks - I just want to stand up for my colleague Sklenák, he didn't train anybody here, he didn't yell at anybody here. He politely asked us not to abuse, at least, the rights we are endowed with. And I just have to join. Not to Mr. Sklenák on priority rights. As far as I remember, neither of the other priority rights which we are given in the KSČM parliamentary club together with Vice-President of the House of Filip, we have never abused. We didn't abuse them even when we really wanted to use it a little bit. But I would like to ask that we all try more to respect the Rules of Procedure. What a small example. The last year, let's say, half a second, maybe less than two years, it's been the order of the day here, it really didn't occur that two, three, five, ten, fifteen, twenty Members and Members will make a proper declaration to the debate and there are so-called factual comments, mostly with the so-called priority rights. I say so-called on purpose. Because the debate is going on as if in shadow before it begins, before the first duly signed-up Member or Member gets to the floor. And it's been going on for hours. And then, I would almost say, justified by the sigh, that we should correct the Rules of Procedure therefore and therefore. I'd like to ask that we... We do not need to correct the Rules of Procedure. We got him pretty good. Years developed, years tested. Any adjustment to be made shall then prove to be the one to turn against the adaptors. Now I'm thinking maybe the last one or one of the last adjustments that focused the voting hours on Wednesday morning and Friday morning. And it's also kind of used here as a powerful weapon. Let's do it again. Maybe we'll have a few days off on the holidays. In addition to taking care of our families, hobbies, and licking the wounds of that whole hectic year, let us also think about the fact that we can be more comfortable together. Be nicer and more considerate to each other. And most importantly, we're lawmakers here who should respect the law. And the first law that every day, with which we come into contact every day, is the law on the Rules of Procedure. So let us read it again and at least try to behave according to the rules of the Rules of Procedure and not strain it too much. Or at least too often behind the edges which the legislator imaginarily sets, and which are sometimes, I admit, crossed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u57	Thank you. As President, I can only add amen. Another with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u58	Hardly amen when I report. But I think we could come to an agreement with President Sklenák. We will take this request very seriously. And please take very seriously our request that your ministers go to the Chamber of Deputies with their proposals much more prepared. I'm quite a memorial myself. I do not remember a government whose ministers would come so shamefully unprepared to defend their own laws, first of all, Minister Babiš, when it is quite obvious that they have not read it, they have no idea what material content is, and the only thing they are able to do is stumblely read the reference report written to them by their official. That's all they're powerful about, because they have no idea what's in that material material, and they're not able to answer any kind of factual question and they're not able to argue. Therefore, they are essentially not involved in the discussion and will only abuse the final word on a few puppets. First of all, Minister Babiš. I think it must also be seen by members of the YES, how they walk completely unprepared! If they are prepared to walk, if they participate in the discussion, if they are able to answer the factual question in a factual way, then we do not need to exercise preferential rights after the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-009-214.u59	I thank Prime Minister Kalousek. If another with priority rights does not apply, we would continue our negotiations with point 50, interrupted by the point at which it is
