ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u1	75. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and other related laws /German press 610/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal is to state... Here he comes. [[Minister Dienstbier is coming to the ballroom.]] Minister Jiří Dienstbier. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the bill is tabled in the context of a Member's proposal for a constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic. Sorry...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u3	It's okay, Mr. Secretary, just take a breath.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u4	I ran at the last minute. I'm sorry. To be extended by the control powers of the Supreme Audit Office. The Chamber of Deputies approved this proposal, as amended by the amendments adopted on 14 May 2014 and forwarded to the Senate on 26 May 2014. According to this Chamber of Deputies approved by the proposal, the SAO is to check the management of public funds and with funds provided from public budgets and the management of legal entities with the ownership of the State or the local government. The SAO's supervisory authority would thus be newly owned by all entities managing public funds, that is to say, including local authorities and legal entities with the ownership of a state or a local authority, not just those managing funds from a state budget like the present. In the Senate, committees dealt with the draft constitutional law. The Constitutional Committee recommended that the Senate reject the draft constitutional law. In addition, the proposal was discussed by the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment, which interrupted the discussion of the draft constitutional law, which will deal with it together with the draft law, which will reflect this constitutional amendment from the law governing the scope of the SAO, also into the law which the amendment has just been tabled. Following this, in particular in order to ensure a full legal framework for the supremely necessary control by the Supreme Audit Office, the Government of the Chamber of Deputies submitted a draft law amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and other related laws, the existence of which is a prerequisite for the completion of the discussion of the abovementioned amendment of the Constitution as a law implementing this constitutional amendment. In order to achieve the above purpose, it is proposed, in particular, to define the terms which the draft amendment to the Constitution introduces in connection with the extension of the control powers of the Supreme Audit Office to the Constitution, namely the terms "public funds' where the management of them is to be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office, by an exhaustive list of specific entities whose management will be regarded as such for the purposes of the SAO's control powers. Furthermore, the term "aids granted from public budgets' which are considered public for the purposes of the control of the Supreme Audit Office. In addition, the term "legal person with the ownership of a State or a local government body' means the establishment of a threshold of more than 50 per cent of that holding. At the same time, it is proposed to determine the content of the control carried out by the local authorities and the legal entities established or established by them, as well as other legal persons who, in addition to public funds, also manage their own financial resources, the compliance of such management with the legal means. As is apparent from the above, the draft law is submitted by means of an implementing law to the existing draft amendment of the Constitution as regards the scope of the SAO's supervisory powers. It thus fills the gap that arose during the legislative procedure for approving the House's press 43 so that the legislative process for extending the scope can be completed. The approval of the extension of the SAO's supervisory powers will provide room for the most necessary examination of the management of public funds at all levels by this independent highest audit institution in our Republic. I would therefore like to ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u5	I thank the Minister for his opening words and now I ask the rapporteur for his first reading, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk, to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of discussion is a government bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and other related laws. The bill was delivered to you on 23 September 2015. As already mentioned in the word of the petitioner, the bill is presented in connection with the already approved amendment to the Constitution, which we discussed and approved and advanced to the Senate over a year and a half ago, where the next legislative process is now dependent on the next legislative process concerning this implementing law. I would merely limit myself to the essential content of the Government's bill, and that is indeed the extension of the Supreme Audit Office's competence, particularly in connection with companies or businesses where the State holds more than 50% of the share. Thus, logically, there is a public interest in the existence of independent, impartial public control of how these public funds are managed. The fact that this criterion is chosen at 50 percent or more, in this I also see a certain principle of proportionality of intervention in the property rights of other entities which do not constitute a public owner but constitute a private person. Another substantial extension of the scope is then affected by the territorial authorities. It is also necessary to point out here that the law also contains three other parts concerning the amendment of the law on municipalities, the amendment of the law on regions and the amendment of the law on the capital city of Prague. Accordingly, these local authorities should be subject to the control powers of the Supreme Audit Office. At the same time, however, the petitioner declares that it will remove the duplication of control in the field of public financial control. I would also like to point out that the bill is fully in line with the Lima Declaration, which sets clear standards for the activities and responsibilities of the various supreme control offices within Europe and within the world at all. The draft law is also in line with the Local Government Charter. For this reason, I believe that the bill is not only eligible for second reading, but also personally, as rapporteur, I express my subjective view that we should also do so. Thank you for your opening words at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate, which Mr Vilímec was the first to come forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last parliamentary term, we have already had proposals extending the control powers of the Supreme Audit Office, including in the regions and municipalities. We know that such a change cannot be implemented without the respective amendment of the Constitution. Although it has passed in the Chamber of Deputies, it has not yet been approved by the Senate, and it is probably not going to happen anytime soon. What kind of government, in this case, does the petitioner, Minister Jiří Dienstbier, bring us here? Extension of checks to municipalities, regions, community and regional contribution organisations, to some other bodies appointed by the rapporteur, such as health insurance companies, public research institutions, but also Czech Television, Czech Radio etc. I mean, while the so-called. public institutions such as Czech Television or Czech Radio, but also as it follows from the law's diction and from the community and region's contribution organizations, the SAO can only control the compliance of their management with legislation, as specified in the draft law, in the municipalities and regions themselves it is different. And that is what I would like to draw attention to first of all. Although the explanatory memorandum is wedged by the fact that it is not an intervention in the case at hand in the separate jurisdiction of municipalities and regions, since the SAO does not have a tool to intervene in the separate scope of the local authorities. And even that the proposal is in line with the principles of the Charter of Local Authorities, because administrative supervision in this case only seeks to ensure compliance with the law and constitutional principles, and not the suitability of the funds chosen. However, the situation after detailed reading and study is quite different, and the promoter should, and I even think he needs to know. By examining without limitation the scope of the obligations imposed on the local authority of the municipality, on the regions and on the budgetary rules of the territorial budgets, the Authority would, at the same time, be most likely to check, for example, with reference to § 38 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 law on municipalities and so-called. effective and economical use of the property of the municipality, by analogy with the region, in accordance with its interests and tasks as described there. It's like this, forgive me, classic legislative cheap. On the one hand, the explanatory memorandum argues that compliance with their legislation will only be checked, and even it is claimed that this is in line with many comments made by the local authorities, but in fact the proposal allows the assessment of the so-called "governance'. the effectiveness of the management of the property of the local authorities. I consider this a completely false game, and I am not sure that this fake game has been revealed by the government colleagues of Mr. Dienstbier. I really can't judge that, and I don't want to judge that. If, in general, we look at the control of municipalities, but also of regions, and above all, I dedicate myself to this topic as an old municipal policy, if we look at the control of their management, the management of funds, but also the property itself, it is controlled from all sides. Minister, try to see how many times public budget subsidies are controlled, for example. Not to mention the Europeans. This is always a few ex ante, interim, ex post, then there will be an audit by the Ministry of Finance, whose conclusions are often completely different. In this, municipalities must live and explain every day to representatives and citizens why the controls have come to a different conclusion than the previous ones, why the municipality must return the entire subsidy and pay a 100% penalty. I'll share with you a very fresh experience from my town. For two years, we lived in exactly this situation and faced a penalty for returning a relatively high subsidy in connection with the construction of the Water Fun Center. The alleged error was found only in the order of the eighth check, so-called. audit by the Ministry of Finance, while the seven previous stated that the city was proceeding correctly. The city resisted by judicial procedure and in the last week we reached two years in the administrative court repealing the decision of the Ministry of Finance for lawlessness and unreviewability. That's how the court declared it. However, our city faced at least a year's threat of payment that would put it financially. I say this so that it can be seen that controls can also result in unfair results, and even if it turns out that the municipality was in the right, it will provide sufficient space for possible attacks on the city's leadership. Of course, more important than the mayor's reputation is that such decisions can really block the development of the city and cause it problems that fall on its inhabitants. [[10.20 hours]] But back to the bill. The government is now trying to give the impression that there is little control in self-government and that controls need to be added, but the problem is exactly the opposite - checks are a lot and often their quality is lacking. The management of funds, which according to the budgetary composition belongs to the category of own income, whether from tax revenues or from the proceeds of assets, is also controlled from several parties. This management is regularly checked by regional authorities or audit authorities. Moreover, municipalities themselves have an obligation to create internal control mechanisms. The rapporteur said that the duplication of public administrative controls would be abolished. I don't know. When I read the new bill from the Ministry of Finance workshop, the opposite is true, and the Union of Cities and Municipalities applied about a hundred fundamental comments on this proposal. There is a reasonable concern that this cannot work at all in practice, especially for certain types of municipalities. In addition, every local self-governing whole, and I think we all know it, is required to create control and financial committees, which also have control powers and make very active use of this authorisation. You know, it seems to me that in our Republic, many would just like to control, but few people would take responsibility. The submitted law on the SAO is problematic also for another reason. The explanatory memorandum to the bill claims that this proposal will result in an increase in the number of SAO auditors by a maximum of ten. Let's count - only the municipalities are at this date exactly 6 248 including Prague, the regions without Prague are 13, the contribution organizations of municipalities and regions, these are thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, if not even higher. It's completely absurd and smiling for ten controllers to be able to control such a number of self-governments. And there's no way that argument can stand. There is not actually a new control, but only a new way to increase the number of checks for the selected municipality. Depends on who the SAO decides to show up to. There will be a purpose selection of whom and to what extent to control and thus, in principle, it will be achieved directly or indirectly into the functioning of the authorities. And there's one more thing that bothers me, and it's crucial. The proposal is quite contradicting itself in some of the provisions. The reasoned report claims something completely different from the actual intention and content of the paragrafo version. If my colleagues have not seen this through with the government, I would like to point out to the Minister that Members and Senators with experience in local politics and real life may have seen it enough. I therefore propose, in contrast to the rapporteur, that this law be returned to the petitioner for completion, and that the so-called law be drawn up to him. RIA - evaluation of the impacts of regulation. It is incredible that this government proposal does not contain such an assessment at all! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u9	I thank Mr Vilímc. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u10	I would like to respond immediately to my previous speaker for a greater contrast. As far as RIA is concerned, the explanatory memorandum deals with this argument and states why - the draft law is implementing a proposal for a constitutional change in the scope of extending the scope of the SAO, to which RIA is not implemented under point 3.8. (a) of the Guidelines for the Evaluation of the Impacts of Regulation. So the argument is explained in the explanatory memorandum. I would also like to say that the basic argument for adopting such legislation is that public funds are only one, regardless of whether they are managed by the state or whether they are managed by the region or by the municipality. It's still the same money, and it's public funds. So I think that for this reason there is no rational argument as to why this money should otherwise be taken or divided and that is why part of these public funds should not be subject to the SAO's control powers. As for the potential possibility for the SAO to choose purposefully. We therefore conceived the SAO as independent, impartial, so that no one could interfere with it - neither the government nor the Chamber of Deputies. The SAO is independent from the Constitution and independence is precisely that it sets out a plan of control activities for each year in the College. That's the college that decides. Nor can the government or the Chamber of Deputies or any other government body influence this. In this sense, it is a quasi-court independence of this type of body. Another argument about duplication or number of individual checks. If I accepted your argument, then I would have to ask myself a question, if there is already a multi-stage control within the state administration, when the Ministry of Finance is at the top, then individual administrators of budget chapters etc., this is a multi-stage control under the Public Financial Control Act. Then I would also have to tell the SAO, in the logic of your argument, that the SAO doesn't control it when there is a multi-stage control. But here it has to be assumed that the SAO control is a different type of control, it is a supercontrol, whose purpose is only to determine the finding. That means he's supposed to release the find and say here you doubted because you did it and that. And that's it. Also note that the SAO does not have any executive permissions to enforce the correction of identified deficiencies - compared to some foreign modifications, where the SAO has such permissions. I am trying to argue and answer your arguments, and I am convinced that there is no unnecessary or duplicate intervention from the SAO towards the authorities in order to make it difficult for them to manage them. Perhaps just one last comment on what you said about the quality of control in relation to local authorities is defined in Section 4 of the bill and there is clearly a limitation. In order for the SAO to be able to interpret legality, efficiency and economy without restrictions, there is a clear explicit link to individual laws governing the management of municipalities, the management of regions, the management of hl. m. Prague, that means legality expressed in one or more specific legal standards. So I believe that there are limits in this, too, so that it is acceptable for municipalities and municipalities and, above all, that it is understandable to them what is meant by the particular legality of assessing economy or effectiveness. Thank you for this moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u11	I thank the rapporteur for his contribution. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Pavel Plzák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u12	Thank you, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, I will really follow up on my previous speaker and then follow up on such a question as to clarify the Minister. There is still talk about the management of state funds or the property of state, municipalities, regions, etc. I think that what is essential in this proposal is that the Authority controls the management of public funds and funds provided from public budgets, and that is to say the funds provided from the state budget. I want to ask the Minister - it applies to the so-called. NGOs? This means that non-governmental non-profit organizations may have been created in the United States, where people gathered together and put together funds for something they wanted to push for themselves without government or state aid. In our country today it is so that a number of so-called. NGOs receive funds from the state budget, and they are considerable funds. I wanted to say and clarify, non-governmental non-profit organizations, that is not a legal concept. Under that concept, today we include legal terms such as associations, constitutions, social cooperatives, generally beneficial societies, foundations, foundation funds, churches and religious societies. Does this amendment also apply to the SAO's control of religious societies, generally beneficial companies, if they receive contributions from the state budget? Am I getting this right? Thank you for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u13	I thank Mr Plzák for his point of view. Mrs Jana Fischerová is another duly applied for. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to my previous speakers. I will follow up on something, but otherwise I have prepared nine pages, but I promise to skip many things, because the essential of my comments, the arguments here have already been made by Mr Vilímec. I will continue to talk on this subject. As has already been said here, this amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act already follows up on the constitutional law, which, as it has been announced, is now in the Senate, where both the Committee on Constitutional Law and the committee addressed to our Committee on Public Administration discussed it. I just want to start by saying that, as I have noticed in the groundwork of this law, the Organizing Committee is commanded by the Supervisory Committee. And certainly, as has been pointed out in particular to the local authorities all along, I think that when the time comes, it should also be ordered by the Public Administration Committee, because that is where my speech, the arguments that I will now be making, will be directed. In fact, municipalities and regions are subject to a number of checks. I liked it, I liked it in quotation marks, I do not like it, but as Mr Vilímec here spoke of a specific case where there were eight checks and after two years of the trial the municipality won the court, so it is unnecessarily wasted both the time, the work of the people and the funds, and they really highlight all this both the authorities of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, and the association of small municipalities, but also the Association of Regions, and overlap those checks. And I could also tell from my own experience from other mayors, mayors who went through their decision-making processes and how checks that one said yes, you have a stamp here, you have it right, the following came to the same thing, and it was different. I still want to go back to April this year in particular. On the ninth of April of this year, we discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies, it was the House Press 530. It was on the basis of a recommendation from the Public Administration Committee, and the President then recommended a resolution for our House. In any case, it was based on the fact that several control activities of several institutions are currently being carried out in parallel in the local authorities, and there is a duplication, sometimes triplicity of controls. During the negotiations here in the Chamber of Deputies, we have unanimously supported the resolution that was fulfilled by imposing a deadline on the Government by this resolution, and it was by the end of the first half of this year that the government should inform all Members of the current system of controls in public administration. It was vote number 164. I ask, I do not see a representative of the government, but Minister Dienstbier is here to see if this really has been discussed in the government, and I ask one minister who is present here, whether this has really been discussed in the government. The deadline was, I repeat, until the end of this semester. And then I'm going to pick up some of the things I'd like to stress again, and I'm going to pass on some of the things I promised, because we'd be here for a really long time, maybe until lunch. I say that the municipalities are also under control at the moment, but as far as possible they have not yet been said, unlike the state, municipalities have good economic results even without the SAO's control. As in the previous three years, the municipalities as a whole reported a budget surplus without Prague in 2014. The second year in a row even reduced their debt. All this in conditions in which there has not been such a significant change on the revenue side. This could probably be demonstrated by the local Members present, who have experience in the councils, that the revenues were not so high, especially at the beginning of the year, and yet the surplus of the municipal budget reached 7.1 billion. CZK and total revenues amounted to CZK 202,9 billion. CZK, which was 5 percent more than in 2013. But spending increased by 9 percent year on year to 1958 billion. CZK, all without supervision of the SAO. On the contrary, the State whose budget resources the SAO is supervising is clearly showing poorer results of the management. Despite the growth of the economy, it does not collect taxes effectively and finances higher spending in economic booms by increasing its debt. I just wanted to draw attention to the economic results of the management of municipalities and the specific cases that really exist during the checks. In the end, the same thing is found to be wrong at the end of the check-up. So I just want to say maybe a thought like that. Okay, if a single system was set up here, which is so marked in the explanatory memorandum that it is a single audit model for the management of public funds, I would agree with that. But on the condition that the duplicate is removed. And I would, I would confess, Mr Member, through Mr President, Stupčuk, that your answer to the duplication, how we will remove it, I did not understand it, because it was not clear to me how it would be removed. I haven't read it anywhere, I've read the reason report, and I think everyone in any government would want to hear it. Then I read in the explanatory report, which year will be checked by the municipalities. It's down to population levels, so I figured out that maybe the city where I live, that it should take a turn for 2020. It also says in the explanatory note how the staff will be recruited. If that is true, I have read that in the next year 10 new employees at the SAO and gradually the increase will be of course also financial, or it will be further impacts on the budget, because as we have been informed about this in the Public Administration Committee, the current state of the SAO staff would not cover everything that is planned in this amendment of the law. Maybe I'd still like to hear for another answer what the financial burden will be not only next year, but also in the medium term, and if it's guaranteed to be just one check, one stamp, so I don't think it would be the mayor's, but the officials who, of course, have to be there in large numbers, especially project managers, to keep them from stalling, I can sign that. One check, one stamp, and it could be the Supreme Audit Office. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u15	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. Let's keep going. Another duly registered member is Mr Jan Chvojka. A colleague of Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna be relatively short, and I'm not gonna talk to the specifics of the law. It is, of course, right that a law is being proposed, which in some way will want to supervise more the management of public funds, and that is the intention that I support. I'm sure it doesn't surprise what I say. I think that this law should also be discussed in the Constitutional Legal Committee, because it is, in principle, discussed on the basis of the amendment to Article 97 of the Constitution, which is still in the Senate of course, but it has requested it, and it is so right that for the final adoption of the constitutional law, the constitutional amendment was also known by the law which specifies the change in the Constitution. I suggest that this amendment be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u17	I thank my colleague Chvojka. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to stress that this law is very much needed. It is very necessary, as has already been said here, to implement the constitutional law, which we have already passed and sent to the Senate. The relevant changes are in Section 3 and in Section 3a. This is so that the Authority can control the management of public funds and the funds provided from public budgets and the property of legal entities with the ownership of a State or a local authority. [[10.40 hours]] This is not about establishing some kind of bullying over the management of the regions, municipalities and cities and their contribution organisations. It's not about whether the Supreme Audit Office will accept 10, 20 or 30 people on this agenda. It's not about checking every community in our country. This is about opening up the possibility for the SAO to control, among other things, the management of municipalities and cities. Given how we are discussing the SAO conclusions in the Audit Committee, I would like to say that the SAO is an authority that is fully competent and its findings contribute to improving the state's management and management of organisations. The government deals with SAO findings and the government also orders corrective measures, which, for example, faculty hospitals or state organisations or ministries have to do to avoid any errors found in the findings of the Supreme Audit Office. And I think that's the main point of control. If, for example, the Office for the Protection of Competition works in this way, I think that we could, as a republic, continue to be in law enforcement in our Republic. Mr Vilímec, through Mr President, mentioned here that the municipalities are already sufficiently controlled by their own inspection committees. I would like to point out, through Mr President, that my colleague should study the legislation on municipalities and see what competence it is that the supervisory committee of the municipality or the audit committee of the region has. There you can see that you can control the compliance of the resolution or control of the resolution of the council or the council, compliance with the legislation, but you cannot go into the control of the management and especially not its effectiveness. You can't look at the management of legal entities, contracts concluded by the board, and so on. And this is a very serious matter, please. Then the Supervisory Committee is more or less a kind of possibility of control and democracy, when the opposition in that community is given control. That's totally rusty. I would like to express my support here, with strong support for this bill, and I would like to remind you that 165 Members have, among other things, expressed their support for the extension of the SAO's supervisory power. Please hunt in your memory and remember what you promised the citizens in 2013 before the elections. It's a step in the right direction. It's not about bullying the community. It's a possibility to check properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u19	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Before Mr Benda, Mr Herbert Pavera, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to Mr Hovorka, who said here about the inspection committee in the municipalities, that by law they have no right to control the management. That's not true. Although the municipal law states certain things that belong to the inspection committee, but the municipal council has the right to put other activities in place of the inspection committee. And certainly the management control of the municipality is also there, checking how the selection process is carried out, checking how the property of the municipality is handled, and so on. So what Mr. Hovorka said here wasn't quite right, and I would like to draw your attention to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u21	Thank you. And now, Mr. Marek Benda. A colleague of mine, Seďa, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u22	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start where my colleague Vilímec ended up, and this is on the exception from the implementation of the RIA, an assessment of the impact of the regulation of this law, which the Minister seems to have granted himself because he is doing so. It seems extremely doubtful to me, because we well know that this bill raises doubts, repeated, both in this House and especially in the Senate, because those who criticize it do not say that there is no control, but they say: [[unintelligible]] There are already so many stages of different types of control that before we introduce more through the SAO, we would need to rethink the others. And we're willing to take control of the Independent Audit Office, and it'll even be better for us in a lot of ways than when the financial office, the regional authority, the other and other subsidy controllers, and so on. But please make a system. That's exactly the government's job. This is the task of evaluation of RIA to make such a consideration and to provide us with some complex solution. To be honest, the government has completely given up on this. Everyone does what they want. One minister presents an amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, because it is popular, the other minister may be processing some amendments, as stated in the explanatory report, to the management of self-governing bodies under Act 420 and possibly other laws, but these amendments lie somewhere in the government. They say there's going to be a unified audit. And instead of bringing it in at once and saying yes, here comes the Supreme Audit Office's control, so we can cancel some more checks, so you leave it completely calm and bring in the Supreme Audit Office's amendment, and all the other controls remain so far, and maybe someday we can sort them out with a single audit. I think it's really unfair to these municipalities. I don't know if anyone's ever talked to the mayor who's got eight checks in one semester. In addition, the law enforcement authorities still sit over him under the supervision of our dear prosecutors and walk and say, "Well, maybe we can still arrest you, too. We could lock you up, too. If we want to, we find that an assessment should be made or that it should not have been made that it was sold above or below the price. Well, I'm surprised there are still people who are willing to do this government thing. I don't mind this amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, but it bothers me that it is not connected with other regulations that allow the control of self-government. And again, she's thrown in here all by herself. The law isn't solved. And let us be sure that if we send this to the Senate, there will be no amendment to the Constitution on the Supreme Audit Office and an extension of its powers. I don't know if anyone's watching the Senate. I don't know if anyone noticed that the Constitutional Committee suggested rejecting a constitutional amendment. Constitutional amendments to the rejection of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Are we assuming that the government has a chance to gain a three-fifth majority in the Senate? Well, I suppose in a situation like this, I don't think it's possible. And that it would be for some rather meticulous negotiation. What, then, if we want to introduce a new control, so what of the current controls, and this is the main reservation that goes from the Senate, which of the current controls either reduces or at least says: They may come every three years, or they may come in some time period or they cannot walk one after another. But there's no such thing, and he's just checking out here, one minister is checking out the completed item of the program statement, I've submitted an amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act. I'm done, the rest is for the House or the Senate, which will be the criminals who reject it. I consider this a very unreasonable solution by the government, a clear alibiism, and the result will be that we will have nothing at all. I suggest we return the bill, as has been said. Let the government present it with a comprehensive change in how to be controlled by self-government, how many checks per year can be carried there in any meaningful way. Then I think it makes sense for us to discuss such a bill, and then we will also talk about whether it is only legality, or whether it is effectiveness, which is a very problematic concept, and I cannot even understand how an official from Prague thinks he could judge whether it was more effective to repair a swimming pool in the village of Horní Dolní or to give footballers or to give firefighters. But we won't get to that until we discuss it in detail. [[10.50 hours]] Then, of course, there are things like the idea of you extending it to school legal entities. What, are you gonna go to kindergarten to check the Supreme Audit Office? Sometimes it feels kind of smiling where we're gonna swing. We'll say - the SAO can do anything. We well know that then he will do nothing at all, or completely selectively and completely selectively. I recommend that we return this and wait for the petitioner to present further amendments at the same time, the petitioner is the government, not one of the government ministers, but when the government presents further amendments on financial control in the public administration, which will make it clear whether there will be a reduction and adjustment of some other controls, or whether this is just an extension. If that does not happen, I will recommend, like my colleague Chvojka, that the bill be ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee, because, frankly, all amendments to the Constitution and to the Supreme Audit Office were made by the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think he's the main guarantor there, and he should be the guarantor for this press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u23	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mr Antonín Seďa. A colleague, Petr Bendl, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, allow me only a few comments on the bill on the Supreme Audit Office. You must be aware that the Supreme Audit Office is an independent authority controlling the management of state property, and this bill extends the possibility of control over public funds and state property. Second point. One thing is an increase in competence. I support this increase and will support the referral of the bill to second reading, but it is also important to strengthen the capabilities of the Supreme Audit Office, it has fallen here several times. In particular, it is for the Authority to be able to carry out these checks in real terms. This is mainly about personnel reinforcement, which certainly has an impact on the state budget. Three. The rapporteur has already said that. I do not understand the criticism of some colleagues who are already accusing the Supreme Audit Office of addiction and possible misuse of controls by selecting controlled entities. Because as the Supreme Audit Office is built, it is independent. I repeat, independent. Next remark I miss the Czech Press Office in the list of legal entities under SAO control. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the government or the petitioner to justify it here. And one final point. From the point of view of legal certainty, it would be appropriate, in my view, that this law should be complemented by a check directly on the implementation of the state budget and the state final account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u25	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. Mr Petr Bendl now. A colleague Martin Novotný will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would begin by asking the question to Minister Dienstbier as the petitioner for this bill. Do you, Minister, think it is economical to provide any association in the community - firefighters, beekeepers, local dance club, athletes - to rent a cultural house that the community owns, like, a crown? Is it economical? Question. I am deeply convinced that according to the draft of this law, the SAO will find it absolutely inefficient and that it is necessary to close all the representatives who have provided the beekeepers, the firefighters, the footballers and I do not know who else in that community, because they have committed inefficiency. Because, somehow, in the elections, citizens who had chosen athletes, for example, not to deal with some strong political parties, had just won athletes, because they had a program to address the public in the community to correct the football field, and that the municipality should contribute to that. The citizens gave them their votes, they won the election, and the SAO comes in, and according to this bill, he says, "No, no, no, no, the playground? That was uneconomical, you should have done the water line first." Maybe it's leaking somewhere. Or, "You should have fixed the windows at the town hall house, because by the old windows there, so the heat goes out more and you could have saved for the city hall operation." And so on. I think this absurdity already points to where the law is headed. You want -- and it looks nice, people who listen to us will feel -- "they want to defend the control, damn it, the robbers at the town hall who dare." The deputies, or those of you who have ever sat in that council and really physically done something there, and there's some work behind them, some projects, something that really needed to be pushed through, so they know how hard it is to come up with some positive thing and push it through. How hard it is to think of something and how easy it is to throw a pitchfork into something. How easy it is to complicate someone's life. And here it is admitted that the SAO will accept approximately ten other people to control the municipalities and regions. I don't know if anyone's ever seen the county budget in billions of crowns. Those ten people, if they really want to check the thousands of contracts that are at county level, they're gonna be there for a year. If it were really fair and they didn't judge whether I would say that the Central Bohemia Region shouldn't have made windows in hospitals instead of windows in schools. Which I find absolute and absurd. But I don't think ten people in the whole republic can really lead to a selection procedure, so that whoever drinks the blood most on the whole republic doesn't really lead us to slander it if we can? Because defamation is difficult to take back. There is evidence that a lot of things have not been confirmed in the SAO's records or the SAO's audit findings. They wrote some very important critics, etc., but in the finals, it didn't go anywhere, and it didn't do anything. In the Czech Republic, I dare say, absolute independence of individuals is not possible to believe. There shouldn't be complete independence. That is why we also have in the Czech Republic - the Czech Republic and our system is based on parliamentary democracy, on balance and mutual control of courts, parliaments, and now I can't think of a third institution - and governments, thank you for the help where these individual key institutions or bodies should control each other. Because absolute independence leads to sins that I would not wish were committed here. For example, the bill states that the council - and literally and to the letter - is obliged to adopt some conclusions on the audit conclusion. Tell me what the mayor's gonna do if the deputies say, "We don't want to accept anything." Mr. Rapporteur, are you going to break their hands and legs? Or how do you intend to strike them? When, as deputies, you propose that representatives must accept a conclusion to something that the SAO writes when they say no. What about it, then? But you're defending it, you probably have the idea that anything can be written in the law, and if it doesn't follow, there's nothing you can do. That's actually the case in the Czech Republic, so why wouldn't the legislators come up with another paragraph that if it doesn't come true, nothing really happens. Or the other way around, do you want to fine those representatives for being elected in democratic elections and not wanting to comment on something? [[11.00 hours]] This is an absolute change in the philosophy of the functioning of self-government in the Czech Republic, which perhaps Minister Dienstbier does not understand much. I hope that at least those of you who have ever sat behind anyone in city councils, municipalities or regions will understand that what is being presented by Minister Dienstbier cannot be accepted in this form and that it is better to get them back to work than to deal with it at all. So if you decide, in the end, that you want to send this nonsense to second reading, then please, and prior notice, this should also be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u27	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Now with the factual remark Ivan Adamec. No application. Mr, my colleague, electronics comes first, so I gave the honourable Member the floor and one more point of fact before Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my point of view, I would like to oppose Mr Bendl a little. You know, that not accepting the council's resolution on the scrutiny is also a result that can be sent that the council... [[Voices from the O.R. Please don't shout here, gentlemen.]] Well, an opinion, if they don't accept it, it's an opinion too. But I kind of wanted to go back to some other things. I don't think control should be repressive. I mean, control is to be positive, to make things right, to make things go right, not to make things go wrong. But on the other hand, I have to get back to what my colleague Marek Benda said here, because the controls really are too much today. I'm not saying that checks shouldn't be, but I have my two-year experience, I remember, for example, when we had a housing grant, so to get the subsidy, one state authority had to say that we fulfilled the conditions, he said it was okay. Then came the control from the Ministry of Regional Development, said it was okay. Then the financial control came and said it was all wrong, and of course we had to ask the Treasury for forgiveness and cancellation of the penalty. So he's a pretty good Kocourkov. I would like to say that the controls need to be organised so that we do not freak out in these municipalities, as I say, so that there is order. If it doesn't have order, I don't think it's worth taking any more amendments or laws. By the way, the SAO was primarily set up to control the state, its institutions and its organisations. And they're already going to these municipalities from the point of view of state subsidies, so it's nothing new. On the other hand, please, let's make some sort of unification of these controls so that the authorities know how they are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u29	Thank you for almost keeping time. Now, Mr Jiří Petrů, with a factual remark, then Mr Bendl, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u30	Mr President, thank you. At the 26th meeting of 9 April 2015, the Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution, as amended by: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare material which will clearly inform Members of the current system of controls in the public administration and when drawing public funds, by the end of the first half, i.e. by 30 June 2015. 135 of the 138 Members supported the resolution, and no one opposed it. We didn't receive any material at this time. The President of the Public Administration Committee has urged the President of the Chamber of Deputies on this matter and has not received any reply to this day. So the question is, when do we get the answer? At the same time, I am saying that we will want to get this material into the Public Administration Committee to deal with it, and we will also require an answer to our question that we have asked. It will also have a significant impact on how we will stand up to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u31	I thank Mr Jiří Petr. Mr Petr Bendl with a point of fact, then with the priority right of the rapporteur and then only Mr Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u32	Thank you. Once again, for the tape screen, and for my honored colleague, I will read the paragraph concerning the obligation to take a stand. I kind of want to say that if someone is to take a stand, it is not that they will not accept any resolution on this. This means that he will adopt a resolution and deliver an opinion on this. In this section, paragraph 20 is proposed to be added. 4: "The approved audit conclusion of the audit carried out by the SAO at the Region, established by it or established by a legal entity or by a legal person in which it has a holding shall be discussed by the Regional Council without undue delay and shall take an opinion on it." It is certainly not possible to say 'no resolution on this' and it is also an opinion. I wouldn't understand. But maybe... This proposal contains a bunch of nonsense, so maybe it's made up like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u33	I thank Mr Bendl. I have announced the rapporteur's priority right and I have three further factual points - Mr Zahradník, Mr Koníček and Mr Adam. So, rapporteur, I understand your priority right, but... if you want to turn it into a factual point? [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] Thus, the rapporteur's factual point. Then the order, as I said. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u34	I would like to respond to my colleague Bendl through you. I'm so glad you set that absurd example here. I will now speak with my four years experience when I was the deputy mayor for property and legal relations in Prague 6, which is more than a hundred thousand city parts. The problem of the economics of interpretation is very difficult to interpret. On the one hand, the village is to be economically managed, but on the other hand, you will learn that it has to fulfil a number of other functions, to take care of the universal development of cultural and so on. etc. So it's always the economy that needs to be measured for some proportionality, for the other values that you're ensuring, at the expense of efficiency of the economy. Now it's the proportionality that can be different, and it can be interpreted in various ways, unfortunately, by the law enforcement authorities. When you set that example with the firefighters, I'll give you an answer to what I think is still economical and what isn't. If you rent the falcon for the crown to the firefighters of your village, it's still in accordance with this principle, because of that principle. you ensure the development of other activities of the municipality. But if you did it with firefighters from another community, I don't think it's economical anymore, and it's hard to justify, because you're not fulfilling the other task in that particular place for the well-being of the individual citizens in that community. And as far as the issue of possible commitment or non-imposition is concerned, the rule of law is impeccable, so there is no penalty, so, of course, not taking an opinion is also an opinion that it has not been addressed. And it is on the level of the political responsibility of one or the council, whether or not they comply with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u35	I thank the rapporteur for stating this as a factual point. Now, Mr Zahradník's point of fact, Mr koníček, please, Mr Koneček, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u36	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, as with the work done, came to my computer at 10.04 hours, perhaps also to your other colleagues, an e-mail from the Reconstruction of the State with their opinion on the present proposal and with a recommendation to support this proposal. If Mr Hovorka meant those 165 Members who committed to extending the SAO's powers to support the number of Members and Members who signed the invitation to reconstruct the state, then God save us. So this organization has a gigantic influence here in the House. Just a little while longer. I have been in the municipal sphere for 25 years as a representative in Budějovice and I have been in the regional government for eight years. At that time, after 2000 we started with audits and checks on the management of municipalities, and then, of course, we overcome great pitfalls, because some municipalities really had their own management in a mess. But we really honored that the municipality is endowed with self-government, so it can decide its affairs freely. Representatives, if they vote, should not be prosecuted for their decisions. This, in my opinion, is one of the tools that could then lead us to witness such things as the fact that mayors and representatives are not only being investigated and investigated and prosecuted for their decisions in the councils, but also criminally prosecuted. I wouldn't want that to happen here. That is why I am saying that I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u37	I thank Mr Zahradník. Mr Vladimír Koníček's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u38	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Bendl to give the Committee of Auditors an overview of the errors of the Supreme Audit Office, which he mentioned here, because he said that some of the conclusions are false, I do not remember exactly the wording, so I would ask Mr Bendl to provide us with such a list of errors of the Supreme Audit Office, and we will certainly look into this on the Audit Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u39	Thank you, Mr Koníček. Another point of fact is Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not signed any petition sheets to the mentioned institution that I cannot come up with, and I am saying this quite publicly, because I do not think it is as pure an organization as it is on the outside, and my information that I have is so directed, unfortunately, up to the American circles, so I think we should be very careful of the pressure of this organization or institution. But I wanted to respond to what my colleague Bendl said. He's very unclear, of course. But let's face it: we have to interpret this somehow because you will not force the council to vote on a given point, and you will not force the council to include this item on the agenda. I just can't. There you have a certain number of representatives who just have their head, I work under the principle of self-government, they have their ideas, they have their electoral programs, and it just doesn't work that way. Perhaps, in committee discussions, it would be better to extrapolate this paragraph so that it is quite clear how the petitioner meant it. Otherwise, regarding the firefighter's price, as the example for the crown was here, I warn you, don't hire the mayor for the crown or your own organizations, because that's exactly how to get into the police's sightseeing, prosecutors, because today there's something like the usual price, so for me the completely unknown term, but unfortunately, I have to accept it, and I recommend that our own organizations rent it at the usual price, and on the other hand, they give it money. It's kind of a rumor behind an ear all over its head. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u41	I thank Mr Adamc. One more factual point by Mr Bendl and then by Mr Jiří Koubek's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u42	Thank you. First, the answer to the question. I will of course be happy to deliver this or I will refer you to the Ministry of Agriculture at the end of the SAO. There are a number of material problems that the SAO pointed to, but it has not been shown to be inefficient, etc., it was basically a political opinion, but it did not lead to anything, and there are many such conclusions of the SAO. This should be known in the Audit Committee that it is often a policy there, but not some criminal impact etc. That's traceable. What Mr Stupčuk said here, through the President. That's ridiculous. Just as a rapporteur, you're showing how absurd the bill is when you say local firefighters can have it for a crown, but they can't, so I hardly dare say what you would say to me if they were playing a game of local footballers with footballers from Lower Lhota, whether they had to pay you or not, or if, for God's sake, the council or someone would have organized some cultural event or someone who wanted to do a cultural event there, and the community would no longer be able to support it, because it would be inefficient, because it doesn't have a permanent residence or the headquarters of the club in that place. This is nonsense, every community cannot have all the areas of life that it wants to provide to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u43	Thank you. Now, Mr Jiří Koubek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I will basically make my point of fact to Mr Bendl's colleague, and it will be about what the rapporteur said about the firefighters. I think the practice is really somewhere else. My city section has two fire departments, two units of volunteer firefighters, but that doesn't mean we're still able to secure everything. It has happened to me in recent years that we simply needed to dispose of a hornet's nest somewhere, and our firefighters invited neighboring firefighters, respectively. their car. And now these firemen are gonna come and ask us for something and I'm gonna show them a long nose? We needed to cut down the trees at the school and say, "Okay, good, but we're gonna call our fellow firemen from Cholupic." And now they don't have falcon, I have it, we rent it to our parents, we don't rent it to them. I mean, that's really unsensual, like you're saying here. I'm sorry. The practice is really different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u45	I thank Mr Koubek. One more factual comment by Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say, first of all, that I also did not sign the reconstruction of the state, because I am at an age where I can afford not to be blackmailable anymore. The second thing I would like to say as a person whom this House has issued to prosecute for a political decision, that I very much warn that there is a law that speaks very freely about what a political decision is. That means all decisions stop. If the entire council is accused of deciding on the basis of materials and expert opinions, it has decided politically, and is prosecuted for it, the law which opens the space to judge the SAO, which can judge economic matters, is set up to judge state enterprises that it will assess whether the political decision was correct, I strongly warn against it and recommend that this law be returned to work, because these uncertainties must be clarified. There's no way we're gonna put the whole community policy through permanent prosecutions for every decision anyone doesn't like. I would like to point out that this decision is made by people who have been elected to do so by their citizens. And that's what people who are employees do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u47	I thank Mr Svoboda and, finally, after factual remarks, we come to the proper application by Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will follow up on those factual remarks. I must say that the previous discussions, the speeches of colleagues, the various opinions, the performance of Stupčuk, the various other opinions of other previous speakers who interpret similar topics in a completely different way show how dangerous it is to enter into such legislation on a thin ice subjective assessment of what is economical in terms of the management of municipalities, and let alone what is useful. That's where I see a whole different category, and I'll mention it in a minute. I will try to give an example of the dispute that I have experienced as a municipal politician. It is a trivial dispute about some cultural event that took place in the neighboring village nearby, about ten kilometers away from the city I was in charge of at the time, but the audience of this cultural event was quite regularly made up of the majority of the population of Olomouc. We regularly contributed to this cultural event, and there were regular views from the opposition that it was uneconomical and wrong to contribute to the cultural event organised by the neighbouring community. [[11.20 hours]] And while the political atmosphere is growing in our country and at municipal level recently, it is quite common that such disputes can escalate until criminal announcements and such things. These are disputes about banality, disputes about tens of thousands of crowns, several units of hundreds of thousands of crowns for example in the area of culture support. I am deeply convinced that the world, within which the politician primarily bears political responsibility for this decision, within which voters can decide next time whether or not to choose such a policy, is far more correct than the world that enters into this type of political decision-making the sphere of law enforcement authorities and, where appropriate, the supervisory sphere of SAO bodies. Disputes about economics. We could talk about them for a lot of time, and in any case, we wouldn't find consensus, and subjectivity would prevail. Legislation should not allow us into such dilemmas, where we ourselves have very different subjective opinions, but at the same time we are setting up some kind of harmony, some sort of evaluation of these decisions. But where I think this thing is quite somewhere else, at a different level, at a different level than the question of economy, is the problematic issue to which this law opens the issue of effectiveness. There I am deeply convinced that we are dealing with the very nature of politics, political competition, political competition, democracy at the municipal level, when this is simply a battle of programmes, a very often sharp struggle to implement those or those projects. And once again, we are in a situation where some are deeply convinced that a project is correct and effective and that it helps the community in its development, and some are equally deeply convinced that it is harmful, destructive for the community, and very often it has been shifting to that level of criminal or similar lately at municipal level. If the Chamber of Deputies starts to mess with the fact that we will not be clear in this that the subject of this political competition at the municipal level will be exposed to such confusion, I consider it very dangerous. That's why I want to ask directly here, and I would like to ask for an explicit answer to the minutes. The Government shall be represented in this submission by the President of the Legislative Council of the Government. From his position he should have on these issues, i.e. on fundamental issues related to the constitutional order of our country, very clear. Therefore, in this respect, I ask Minister Dienstbier for a clear position of interpretation already at this reading, but in all other possible ways, as he interprets the question of effectiveness and how he sees it as a lawyer and as an expert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u49	I thank Mr Novotný. Mr Ludvík Hovorka's application now. And I have ambition, if there is no further application, to conclude the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on some of the sayings that have been said here by the previous speakers through you. Of course, it is a matter of responsibility to one's constituents and to the conscience of each of us that one has promised before the election or what one has committed himself to. So I don't want to discuss what anyone has promised or promised to whom. However, it would be good if it were said here which particular error or which specific conclusion of the Bendl was so bad that it raised some contradictions, etc. If I have information, and if I sit in the Audit Committee and we discuss the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office, the experience is that there is a conclusion from each meeting. That conclusion, as far as, say, the state organisation or ministry is concerned, is, of course, being reminded, corrective measures are imposed, which are expressed by the Ministry concerned, or rather. the government, and then it's watched how those remedies were handled. It is not the primary purpose of the Supreme Audit Office's finding that someone should be convicted to be criminalized. The point is that the money is managed economically and that all operations are in accordance with the legislation that is in force in the legal order. The fact that the finding is sometimes quite austere doesn't say anything about the control itself. If you wish, Mr Bendle, through Mr President, to look into a decision of the Supreme Audit Office, if you want more accurate information, you must request control protocols. And I assure you that these control protocols are very extensive and contain a lot of specific things that make you think about how a particular organization managed, whether well or badly. The problem is that a number of legislation is vague. For example. if someone comments on the management of a health insurance company that manages funds in some way, she refers to a payment decree that allows for a different method of payment than that provided for in the payment decree. And here's the point of the contradiction that you're referring to, that there was no need for someone to be convicted at the end, that someone wasn't criminalized. But that doesn't say the Supreme Audit Office works well. I mean, the findings are very necessary and are aimed at improving the management of public funds organisations. To Mr Paver, through Mr President, I would just like to read the powers of the supervisory committee of the municipalities and, likewise, the powers of the inspection committees of the regions: the Supervisory Committee checks the implementation of the resolution of the council, the municipality and the council of the municipality, when established, checks compliance with the legislation by other committees and municipal authorities on a separate area of responsibility and carries out other supervisory tasks entrusted to it by the municipal council. - It follows that if the Supervisory Committee wants to enter into contracts, it wants to control, for example, the management of the contribution organisations, it must have a resolution of the council which will instruct it to do so. And I assure you that this is not happening in a number of cases, because the councils are usually not interested in having any more powers. Another thing that was said here. I am not aware that there is talk of any control of political decisions in the bill, etc. Here it is simply possible to control the management of municipalities and their contribution organizations. If the SAO e.g. he had the power to control the management of the contribution organizations, then he could also check the expenditure of the capital city of Prague, respectively. Transport company in connection with the Opencard case, etc. So this is about opening up an option. Not so that the SAO can bully and in some way over-control municipalities, especially small municipalities. It is the opening of the possibility, not the introduction of some system control mechanism on all municipalities. From this point of view, I think the law is clear. And please, it's quite simple, it's described exactly who it's going to apply to. Read this bill and support it because I consider it very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u51	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. But my ambition cannot be fully fulfilled because I have four factual points. The first is Mr Birke, then Mr Václav Horáček, then Mr Herbert Pavera and then Mr Svoboda. Those are factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u52	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, this is a show today of the great rhetoric of local politicians or my colleagues and colleagues, who have to some extent, some more, some less, great experience with municipal politics. This is all, my friends, rhetoric until the door opens, you're the principal, two ladies will come, or a gentleman and a lady will show their ID and say, "We're checking this office and we're going to check it out for you and that." I just want to tell you that those of you who had the chance to be mayors of cities and to be stats to experience this! I must say that I am the mayor of the third largest city in the Hradec Králové Region. I feel that in the Czech Republic it is a national sport that may not turn itself in, but more or less control. When someone is successful, they need to be trampled and destroyed! So in short and well, Náchod is a very controlled city. So far, no harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u53	Thank you, Mr Birke. Mr Václav Horáček, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to answer your response to my colleague Hovorka. He always picks what he wants out of it. Because if we look into the municipal law, there is a financial committee in addition to the inspection committee. And he's in charge of the financial stuff. Besides, I don't know a council that doesn't want to be covered in itself, which is why it didn't check its financial and other things. There was talk of eliminating duplicates. I am inclined to the opinion of my fellow Petr that until there is a system of controls, the golden eyes that saw it would be one check. That's a total nonsense that's given here as a buck coin. Then I would like to get an answer to the question of what my colleague Plzák has already said here. Non-governmental non-profit organisations. Because I have this feeling that sometimes they're government profitable organizations, so I'm wondering how they're incorporated there. Of course, as far as effectiveness is concerned, the word effectiveness can be confused with abuse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u55	I thank Mr Horáček for his time. Now, therefore, Mr Herbert Pavera also has a factual point. Mr Svoboda will also prepare for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to respond just as much as my previous colleague did to Mr. Hovorka. Not only does the Financial Committee have the right to control the management, each representative has the right to control the management of the municipality. I wanted to get off on something else. This is still the view of municipalities and cities, and unfortunately, some politicians, even the mayors themselves, and of course the media, think that what mayor and politician, it is a thief. But that's not true at all. 99.9% is the most decent, honest and hardworking politicians and mayors. Today, it is constantly pointed out in public that mayors are the ones who are the most corrupt, who are causing problems, and that is why there are laws to control. I didn't understand why anyone should control - I am in favour of controls, because checks must be, whether everything is secure and okay, but why should the SAO control self-governing decisions of the municipality in whether to set up technical services or not, I really didn't understand and I don't understand. It's a matter of self-government. Then let's cancel the full self-government, because there's been a constant decision here in terms of self-government, and let's put it into the municipalities and cities of the state official who's gonna run it, and it's all gonna be settled, under state control, and the state will have it all under surveillance. And we don't even have to vote for a council that has its own decision-making powers. So let's not get too involved in the self-decision powers of the council of municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u57	Thank you. Now, Mr. Freedom. Colleague Fichtner canceled his application for a factual comment, which could be the last factual comment in this series. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u58	Yes, thank you. Only to the margo of what my colleague Birke said. I've been through this since I was a big faculty hospital. When the two ladies arrive, they'll request a room, change the lock, and they'll stay there for three or four months. The three or four months you have to hand them at least two prominent officials, all that is possible and the action that is going on is really an extraordinary experience. And it's going to be very interesting in the government. I'm very curious. Then, through the President, to my colleague Hovorka. You promiscuously use the word criminalized or convicted. That's two very different things. I'm warning you, and I don't wish it on either of you or you, the moment something falls upon you, that some conclusion is controlled and it's wrong, so at that moment you're criminalized. The term is very clear. At that point, all the journalists, all the people talk to you as someone who's a potential criminal. And that's criminalization in the true personal sense. And I say again, all the laws we make, let's do this so that we don't open it. I therefore repeat once again: this law should be brought back to recast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u59	Now, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u60	Yes, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, I did not want to criminalize or accuse anyone. But what I'm saying is, for example, that the SAO's finding, which involved four faculty hospitals, found such serious things that some hospitals were buying, some treated up to a hundred percent more expensive than other hospitals. And these are things that are certainly very interesting and testify that, for example, there was no order in these organizations. I think that controls as such are necessary and that the Supreme Audit Office is doing them well. Perhaps a fellow Member of Svoboda, through Mr President, had a bad experience, but from what I had the opportunity to watch during this parliamentary term, indeed the findings of the Supreme Audit Office are very serious and very telling. As such, I think the Supreme Audit Office is doing very well and in the interests of the citizens of this state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u61	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. I have two further factual points, first Mr Urban, then Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd cancel the mayor's shoplifter. I'd cancel the advice here. I'd cancel the deputies, too. Actually, we'd cancel the municipal elections, that would save money. And instead, we'd put in some SAO officials who would have a politician from the State Reconstruction with them, and that would have worked! [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] Please think a little hard and try to keep what we have in the Czech Republic, which means self-confident public administration, which is elected by citizens of individual cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u63	I thank Mr Milan Urban. Real comment by Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Perhaps I could add Mr Urban to the fact that the office mentioned by one of his colleagues could be temporarily rented by Mr. Ištvan and Mr. Šlachta, and they could change the locks there, too, and I think that the town hall team that would work at the town hall might be able to extend it to them. But I applied to what was said here by my colleague Hovorka. I do not know how what Mr Hovorka has said here is related to the municipalities of cities and municipalities. There is an Office for the Protection of Competition, which reviews public procurement. Many of us and the town halls dealt with fines that were given to us for some administrative offense in public procurement, of 99 percent unintentional, but only a formal one, then we discussed whether it was to be paid by the council or whether it was to be paid by the petitioner. How would these offences be treated by the Supreme Audit Office? I, for example, had eight inspections in Prague 2 this year. I guess the finance minister doesn't really like me, which I'm not surprised, so I only had half the checks from the Treasury. [[11.40 hours]] But of course I had control from the City Hall of Prague there. And we also have our department or internal audit department, which deals with individual union controls, working procedures, we can set up external audits. I really believe that the self-government is overchecked and that we will not solve anything with this bill at all. On the contrary, the situation will get even more complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. That was the last application in the debate. But my colleague Zlatuška has volunteered for me, so unfortunately I cannot conclude the debate. What do I do? So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u66	Listening to some objections, I have a feeling they could be summed up in a simple claim that they're also our constituents, right? We need funding from them. [[With laughter.]] So we will do everything we can to prevent control mechanisms from working.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u67	Thank you. I am still making a factual comment by Jana Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u68	Yours through Mr. Zlatušek. Sometimes they're your employers, too, aren't they?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u69	Now Mr Leoš Heger's point of fact, then Mr Zlatuška and Mr Beznoska again. So, what can I do? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u70	Thank you for the floor. I apologize for acting, because the question is very complex in legal terms, it is complex in terms of the logic of the entire corporate governance system, because the question of who controls the controllers has not solved any system. And in this environment, it is very easy to say that someone is a thief or that controls should be greater or smaller. As a response to my colleague Hovorka and finally to my colleague Zlatuška, I would like to say that defamation not only of the mayors, but as it has fallen from my colleague Hovorka, through Mr President, whom I have to say that if there were any mischief in a hospital - I agree with that - but it is necessary to divide them into the unfairness that the Supreme Audit Office has identified as systemic problems, because it is precisely drug purchases that are a very difficult issue which cannot always be dealt with clearly through selection procedures, or whether they are offences that correspond to criminal activities. [[Big noise in the hall.]] And let's talk about how many are like that and how many are like that. And no one knows that. And unfortunately, even though TOP 09 had an extension of the Supreme Audit Office's activities in the programme, it must be said that this must be an extension that will address the systemic issues. But the controls that are controversial here, whether they're good or bad, haven't been very helpful, and if they're going to spread into the communal sphere, they need to deal with the very system. And that's not exactly what the law seems to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u71	Thank you. Now one more factual remark from Mr Zlatuška. The next point will be Mr Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u72	Mr President, on what I have here, I do not know if it is appropriate to say Mrs Černochová slaps the sides of my employer, I have employers all who I have had in the past, mostly reported in public statements on conflicts of interest, because I have worked parallelly with employment for a long time in public positions. So if I were to marry an employer for eight years from a relatively recent time, if, Mr President, you could recommend to Mrs Černochová, that she begin to inform the head of her party. He was the head of an institution that employed me the moment he took my employer into his mouth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u73	Thank you. Mr Beznoska's point of view. Thank you for keeping time on factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll take the side of all those who defend self-government here. It started with Mr. Mayor Birke, continued with his colleagues from Odesky, Herbert Pavera from the top, because we really should think a little bit about what it means to people. My colleague Svoboda here gave an example of when the inspection committee came - the change of key in the castle, the separate room. One experience from Mladá Boleslav. Three checks in one week, three rooms. Luckily, I didn't have to change the locks three times. Let's stop really burdening ourselves with unnecessary things here, and let's think about what laws, virtually. What bills we're discussing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u75	Thank you. Now, Mr Martin Novotný, on a point of fact. And another factual point will be Ludvík Hovorka, then Mr Štětina, then Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you also have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u76	Colleagues, colleagues, we have been having a debate here for quite a long time, in which I think that some of the relevant questions have also been raised regarding, say, constitutional conformity and the unambiguous uninterpretability and potential consequences of this law that we are discussing. Mr Zlatuška, who I wish to address through the President, has summed up the debate in his own way. He comes from an academic environment and recently here reminded the distinction of ad hominem arguments and ad rem arguments. So I have to tell him that the argument he made here is called ad pigeon in the academic environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u77	Now, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Mr. Mr. Štětina will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I know that this is a very complex issue and that it is not easy, but if the SAO finds it to be a systemic error, a systemic error, an error in the legal environment, it is also valuable because it points out that the relevant legislation needs to be clarified that it needs to be amended in order not to repeat those errors. And even in this, the work of the Supreme Audit Office is very important and it brings about a reduction in the space for corruption. [[Big noise in the hall.]] That is why I think this bill is worthy of support, and I ask for its support and release for further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u79	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Now, Mr Jiří Štětina's factual comment and then another comment by Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u80	Hello. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I follow the debate with great interest, of course I also follow invectives, nastyness, etc. I'm not gonna talk about it because I have two minutes. As a man in charge of entrusted state resources, I was forced to check the entire business from the SAO and end up with all the audit authorities from the region, the city etc. If you manage honestly as at home, that means you give, you give, and it's zero, so you don't have to worry about anything. As a member of the Supervisory Committee, I closely and closely monitor the reports submitted by the Supreme Audit Office. I have never met with an excess of bureaucracy, and I always consider these reports to be very erudized, expert, on a level. If, as a member of the inspection committee, I had the opportunity to submit reports on price controls, we found everywhere that there was a shortage of controllers. We all know that tax controls are not able to be carried out by the tax administration, because many companies are best placed in Prague, where checks are not done. I know it has nothing to do with this government. But my principle is: when it comes to state money, i.e. taxpayers' money, control is needed. Those who run an honest farm have nothing to worry about. And I think the Authority will only go there once. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u81	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin and we continue with the factual remarks, namely the factual remark made by Mrs Jana Černochová. Mr Adamec and then Mr Koníček will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u83	Wait, I'll give you two more seconds. I ask the House for peace! Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u84	Thank you. I'm glad my colleague Zlatuška here reminded us where he worked or where he worked. Because, unfortunately, there's no such thing as his behavior. He mentioned President Fiala here, who, unlike Mr. Zlatuška, has kinderstube and he's an academic. Mr. Zlatuška could work at a slaughterhouse in Agrofert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u85	Thank you. Now, Mr Adamec, on a point of fact, Mr Koníček will also be prepared for a point of fact. I will not release the counter yet, and I will ask the House again for peace! If you don't want to listen to the speakers on this pretty serious matter, at least respect that our log must be recorded, and in this noise not only do I not hear, but even those who record this, stenographers, stenographers have no chance of writing your performances. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u86	Thank you, Mr President, thank you and my colleagues for allowing me to comment. I would only dare to invite Minister Dienstbier here to respond to questions about purposefulness and the matters that were falling here before we were able to respond to that in the final speech. Perhaps I would like to respond to my colleague, Mr Štětin, by your means, of course, Mr President. You know, it needs to be said that state money does, that the SAO checks state money, and he does. And I think it's good, I'm not questioning it. But here we're talking about public money and especially that part of public money that concerns self-government. And there's this buried dog we've been arguing about all along. I would like us to make a strict distinction here, because this is actually the basic point of why this whole debate is going on here. And by the way, I've already said that in the previous remark. If there isn't a comprehensive system of controls or control mechanisms in this state, I refuse to vote on the further transfer of control powers to other authorities, because I see potentially great confusion in the future, great chaos. And, of course, it's fertile ground for various policemen and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u87	I thank Mr Adamc for his time. And Mr Vladimír Koníček's factual comment. prosit, Chairman of the Supervisory Committee Mr. Koníček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u88	Mr President, the debate so far seems to indicate that the SAO has not yet been in those municipalities, and now it will be something special. When you take an overview of the control activities and enter a controlled person, the city, you will have more than 900 controlled entities, which are the city, and more than 500 entities, which are the municipalities, since the checks have been carried out. So let's not make this a big deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u89	Thank you, Mr Koníček. One more point in fact, Mr Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, but I can't do that. I was saying it here in the original memoir that the SAO already goes to the municipalities. But it concerns the control of the state money acquired by the municipalities, not the self-governing ones! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u91	Thank you. I have no further application for the debate, I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the plaintiff. Minister Dienstbier is interested. Will the rapporteur also be interested in the final word? Yes. So please, Minister, you have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u92	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for the final word. I will try to comment on the topics that have been raised here in connection with the proposed proposal. I would begin by stating that, above all, the opening part of the debate was quite substantive. There were legitimate opinions that I disagreed with most of the time, but I say, they were legitimate attitudes. The problem is that they probably should have sounded earlier when discussing the amendment to the Constitution, which extends the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. Because I would like to stress that it was this Chamber of Deputies, which decided by a constitutional majority to amend the Constitution, which extends the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. Only by submitting this bill does the Government respect the will of the Chamber of Deputies and the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act carry out what has already been decided by you in the amendment to the Constitution. Here I would point out that the government had absolutely minimal scope for legislative work to consider the scope of the SAO's supervisory powers, because they are clearly defined by the constitutional change. At the same time, this proposal is tabled because, after the Chamber of Deputies passed the amendment to the Constitution of the Senate, the Senate suspended the hearing by waiting until the draft amendment to the Act on the SAO is passed to it, which implements the constitutional amendment. That's why the government agreed to it. As I said, we only respect the will of the Chamber of Deputies. It is not because, as Mr Benda here said, it would be popular, but because you simply decided that we should present it, essentially. And now for the particular reservations that have been made here. A more general reservation that the RIA has not been implemented, i.e. an assessment of the effects of regulation. As has also been said here, amendments to the RIA Constitution are not fundamentally made under legislative rules. In this case, it is a purely implementing amendment to the implementing law, which fully respects the limits in the proposed constitutional amendment, and therefore it was not appropriate to carry out an assessment of the effects of regulation in this case, and therefore the government, when approving the legislative work plan, where this law was presented as one of the tasks, decided not to implement the RIA. Now to the extent of the powers of control. As I said, we were bound by the very strict limits that result from the proposed constitutional change. However, since we have seen the comments of the local authorities, namely the Association of Regions and the Union of Towns and Municipalities, we have discussed this draft law with them very above-standardly. Only I personally dealt with representatives of both of these organizations at least three times and, of course, more of my co-workers. We have tried to do our utmost to meet especially in the sense that, unlike the state level, as it is so far and it is to continue to be where economics, efficiency and efficiency are controlled, so that it is a reference to the very laws governing the activities of the local government. First of all, the municipal, regional and law on the capital city of Prague. In terms of economy and efficiency, which is expressed in these laws, I would point out here that this amendment does not establish the obligation of local authorities to behave economically and effectively in the management of their assets. There is no change in the scope of the responsibilities of self-government. They already have this obligation today, and we are merely referring to a law which local authorities must abide by in respect of the expanded supervisory power of the SAO in the constitutional change. We don't have much room to deviate here. [[12.00 hours]] And what Mr Vilímec said here at the beginning, that it is a little different set up for a company with a participation in property, she is just a question of formulation. If we used the same wording for local authorities, that they had to abide by the laws governing the management of their property, in other words only we would refer to the municipal, regional and economic obligations to dispose of the property effectively and economically, because it is a legal obligation, that is, the control of legality in this case. It's a bit of a word-talk. The debate follows from the fact that representatives of the local government, i.e. municipalities and regions, have a reservation on the very constitutional change. They do not agree with the extension of the SAO's powers, but there is nothing we can do about this law, because, as I have said several times, we only respect the approved constitutional change here in the Chamber of Deputies. Another question that has been raised here, whether the control power applies to non-profit organisations. If you read, on the one hand, the constitutional amendment, the wording of which is expressly adopted by the law, the SAO has the power to control the management of all funds provided from public budgets, I would logically conclude that this applies to non-profit organisations as long as they fulfil this definition. Even within other control mechanisms, even non-profit organisations are already controlled by the audit authorities today in cases where they receive some subsidies or other funds from public budgets, but so far the Supreme Audit Office does not do so to the extent that it is proposed. As regards Mr Bendl's observations, so-called the obligation to adopt a resolution or to take an opinion, as the law states, in the council. I would say that there is basically an analogy with how we are doing even now on the control conclusions. I also know from my experience as a member of the government that we are discussing these conclusions. I do not remember, therefore, that we would not have taken a position on this, that the government would not have approved the resolution. It could happen the same way. I think that the adjustment that the SAO's audit conclusions, whether it concerns the self-government itself or the people where it has ownership participation, that it is progressing, that it is logical. And that, in some way, the conclusions at the level of self-government should be discussed, it also seems quite logical to me. What conclusion does self-government take on this, it is entirely her issue, because the SAO merely notes some of its findings, the SAO does not impose on the SAO and does not impose any obligations on the self-government in the future. It's really up to her. It is rather an advantage for her that she receives such a finding. And I would point out here that for the authorities, I think that the SAO is the most appropriate supervisory body precisely because it fulfils to the greatest extent the requirement of independence, which means that there should be the least threat that there will be a political assignment for this control. In addition, it cannot even occur to the case that the mayor is surprised that two ladies with a supervisory mandate are knocking on his door, because the SAO is drawing up a control plan, where it can be found in advance that the municipality or region will be controlled to some extent with some purpose, and by the way, it was already contained in the previous amendment of the SAO, which has already been approved in this parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, when it was adapted to establish the SAO's control plan, and that the SAO provides its documentation in advance for the establishment of a control plan, where among others. The aim is for the SAO to find out that something has already been checked, and it has just been in its control plan that it has crossed into duplicate control mechanisms. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] This is where I get the request to eliminate duplicates. This is something that sounded very strongly not only here, but especially in our negotiations with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Regions, even there the representatives of the Authority said that the SAO's audit did not really bother them so much that it is actually more appropriate for them that they are bothered by duplications in other, other control mechanisms, and even some have formulated it so that it is the approval of this amendment that they perceive the opportunity to bring this issue into the debate. I consider it legitimate. I'll take a turn here, then. I cannot exactly comment on the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which ordered the government to present some overview of duplication, because it is not my place, I have no say over financial control, i.e. by official means this resolution has not come into my hands. I would merely say that for the purposes of negotiating with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Regions, I have had exactly such material processed by the section of the Legislative Council of the Government, and it is this -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u93	Minister, I apologize for interrupting you, but the noise in the House is really great. I ask my colleagues if they are not interested in handling their affairs in the lobby and not disturbing other colleagues who are interested. I'm sorry, we'll just wait until the House is completely quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u94	I don't know if we'll see. I've never seen this place before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u95	I think we'll see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u96	But I think it's been a manageable level of noise so far. At least I hope I hear a little bit. At least those who care, hopefully can hear me. Although I said that the requirement to eliminate duplication is legitimate, I perceive that it is a burden for self-government, but it is not a law where the change can be made. The law, which should comply with this requirement at least to a certain extent, is the law on internal management and financial control. He was newly submitted by the Ministry of Finance under a new title, namely the Act on Management and Control. This law provides, on the one hand, for the delegation of the procedure and the imposition of penalties for infringements of budgetary discipline from the institutions Financial administration to subsidy providers. This should remove one of the duplicates that is in the control mechanisms. What remains unfinished there, and I would undoubtedly be interested to see when we discuss it, as well as the position of the organisations representing the self-government, namely, the Association of Regions and the Union of Towns and Communities, as they are looking at the review of the management of the local authorities, because for now the draft law submitted by the Ministry of Finance envisages not applying to the review of the management of the territorial self-government units. That means these two processes would remain parallel. Neither the representatives of self-government have yet been able to give me a unified opinion as to whether this is the case, or whether they want to eliminate this duplication, because some of the representatives of the self-government insisted on maintaining the law on the review of the management of local authorities, i.e. it will undoubtedly still be a legitimate part of the debate. I wonder if I've responded to all the questions that have been raised here. Now I don't recall anything major else. I think that would probably be enough for now. At the moment we are at first reading and I assume that there will be enough room if it is released for second reading and for committees, details of the adjustment to discuss mainly there and subsequently also at second reading and I hope also in the third here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I would just stress once again that the Government respects the will of the Chamber of Deputies, which has already decided to extend the SAO's supervisory powers by approving the amendment to the Constitution, with the fact that, of course, it is not clear how the Senate will stand up to this issue and whether, after this law is eventually there, it will approve both the amendment to the Constitution and the amendment to this implementing law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u97	Thank you, too, Minister. I'm registering two applications with priority rights, but we haven't closed the final words yet, so I'll ask the gentlemen if they have a problem with this, and of course they'll be given the floor after the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u98	Only briefly, because I also took part in the discussion. I would like - he has already summed it up here in principle, answered some of the questions asked. It really needs to be realised that the basic parameters of the law, as it is presented, are already defined by the constitutional change, when we approved the constitutional law more than a year ago, i.e. that, in this sense, the content of the present law is determined by constitutional change. I think I have nothing more to say at this point, just as rapporteur, I would recommend that we move this bill forward to second reading, because from the point of view of the procedure, I have seen a proposal from several Members to return to work, and then there have been proposals for submission next to, I suppose, a guarantee committee, which will be a control committee, and a commandment to the Committee of Constitutional Law and to the Committee of Regional Development. I suppose that first we will probably vote on the motion for a return and then, if necessary, discuss the vote on the commandments to these individual committees. So I'm gonna load it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u99	Yes, that's right. I'm registering all this. And now, with the priority right of the Vice-President of the House, Petr Gazdík, after which will be prepared by the President of the House, Jan Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u100	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and most importantly, Minister. I want to say, "Now about Budulínek." Minister, please, when you have us local politicians across the political spectrum that we sit in this House, want to convince us to vote in favour of the law that you are proposing, please let us know at least a little bit that you have a clue as to how it is taking place in these municipalities and cities. You personally convinced me that you didn't have a clue about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u101	Thank you. Furthermore, please the President of the House of Jan Hamáček and prepare Mr Benda with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u102	Thank you. Madam President, fellow Members, I am speaking because I feel that I owe the House an explanation. In his speech he Petrů to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which adopted resolution number 708 at the 26th meeting on 9 April and asked the Government for the preparation of material which will clearly inform Members of the becoming system of controls in the public administration, and the deadline that we imposed on the Government for submission was by the end of the first half. The moment I found out that this deadline had not been met, I contacted the Prime Minister by letter and warned him that this deadline had not been met, and on 16. 9. I received a letter from the Minister of Finance, who was directed at the Director Hejná, i.e. a copy of this letter, which states that, on the basis of its letter, the Minister of Finance would like to inform that the material which will clearly inform Members of the existing system of controls in the public administration and the drawing of public funds within the meaning of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 9 April 2015 is currently being prepared and will be submitted to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure under the Rules of Procedure of the Government in September 2015. I believe the House deserves this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u103	Thank you. And now, please, with Mr Benda's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u104	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again, as the Minister traditionally waits for the whole debate to be heard, then he will speak with a final word in which he does not respond to almost anything, and the only chance for a performance is priority rights. I always find it unfair to those Members who do not have the right to do so. I have the advantage of asking my President to leave, and I can respond, but I think it would be right for ministers to respond in particular to the specific questions raised during the debate. There's no answer to a number of things here. The reason why the RIA wasn't implemented is a justification so incredible a circle that I have to laugh. The constitutional changes are not made by RIA, and what is here is defined by constitutional change, so we don't have to do RIA at all. Well, that really seems very smiling to me. It's just an attempt to say I know it might cause a problem, because it's regulatory very strongly, so I'm gonna avoid it by forgiving myself. That's my first point. Secondly, no constitutional change is defined. This is also the case with the rapporteur and the Minister, both of whom are lawyers, and they know it well. Constitutional change is when the Senate approves it. The Constitution in this country is approved by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. The Chamber of Deputies has expressed some will here, the Senate is expressing a completely different will even, not discussing this amendment. Exactly what we're always saying here. First, we need to put together a general idea of what controls in public administration look like, and then we are only willing to approve the amendment to the Constitution. And you say: we are determined by constitutional change. We are not determined by anything because there is no constitutional change. There is some expression of the majority will of the Chamber of Deputies. This expression of the majority will of the Chamber of Deputies was also expressed by the 9th. 4. in resolution 708, which ordered the Government to clarify this resolution. And the Minister, who should sit here in this House every time the House meets, assures me that it didn't reach him through official channels. Well, then I feel like he's really making fun of me. I can't explain it any other way. If the Minister has no idea what's going on in this House, then don't let him be a minister. Then it's completely unnecessary for him to be a minister. Otherwise, he represents the government as a whole. I know you're out of your league, but you're acting for the government as a whole. The government as a whole was given this task. It was quite clear that when the amendment on the Supreme Audit Office was tabled, so that we could know what the controls in the public administration look like, and you're here to make excuses for the fact that you're just one minister and you're not representing the government as a whole? When did you abandon the task given to you by this Chamber of Deputies? By 30. 6. nothing happened until 30. 9. nothing happened, now the sub-alternary clerk probably writes to us through the minister that they are starting to process it somehow slowly. I find such an expression, after the debate, with these half-truths, otherwise I cannot call it fair, and I think that they should be heard in the debate in order to respond to them. The fact that you didn't even deal with subsidies, that you only tell fairy tales about not starting new obligations, but that it creates a new control, which will say in effectiveness you made a mistake, is as much as you forget to admit it. But those are the things we'll probably be dealing with in the next reading. I just think that the minister here represents the government and it is impossible to look like me ignoring the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies because I wasn't meant to be, and I'm obviously some kind of a freak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-005-075.u105	Thank you. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion, which Mr Vilímec, Benda and Bendl presented here. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you to register your cards again. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote on the proposal to refer the proposal back to the applicant for completion. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I conclude the vote, it is the vote with order number 49, to which 168 are entered, for 31, against 103, the proposal was rejected. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 50, to which 172 are entered, for 170. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this further proposal to the next committee, but two proposals were made in the debate, at the commandment of the Constitutional and Regional Development Committee. Is there any other suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote separately on individual proposals. [[12.20 hours]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of ordering this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 51, to which 173 are registered. Pro 171, versus 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will now consider the proposal for the commandment of the Committee on Regional Development. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 52, to which 173 are registered. For 168. I note that this proposal has also been approved. This bill was ordered to discuss the Constitutional Law Committee and the Committee on Regional Development as a further committee. I'm done reading this law. Now let me read the apologies. Between 11.30 and 18.00 from today, for family reasons, Mr Holeček apologizes, Mr Zemánek apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. And from today's day from 4:00 p.m. and tomorrow from the entire day of the meeting, Minister Stropnickýý apologizes for reasons of foreign travel. We will now proceed to discuss the next point and that is
