ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u1	171. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Before we continue, I will also read the apologies before the beginning of today's meeting: today from 14.30 to the end of the day, Mr Schwarz apologizes, and today from 17 o'clock for personal family reasons, Mr Lubomír Toufar apologizes. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the ranking of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00, and to other members of the government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I will therefore now give the floor to Mr Simeon Karamaz, who was drawn first to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka, and Mr Marek Ženíšek will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u2	Dear Prime Minister, I'm sure you know that the Public Procurement Act is not only good, but a series of pitfalls that often burden the contracting authorities absurdly. I don't want to focus on the whole issue, but only on what I meet every day. For many years, I have been working on university grounds, so I will mention one problem that universities are facing. This problem is the fact that for the purposes of the Public Procurement Act, a university as a whole is considered to be a contracting authority and not its individual faculties. This brings with it several unpleasant conventions. Of course, this applies more generally to institutions which, like universities, are divided into separate units. The first problem is the addition of the value of the subject matter of the contract. For example, if a university wants to purchase computers, it has to add up the values of all requested computers from individual faculties per year. The resulting value may exceed the legal limit, so the goods must be competitive administratively in a much more demanding way. The second pitfall is the result of the competition. The faculties must align their procurement documents for the purposes of the contract. At first sight logical procedure. But only until we realize how diverse the faculties of the same university can be. For example, computers for the Faculty of Electrical Engineering will be very different from those for the Faculty of Philosophy. The result of such a procedure is a framework contract, of course beneficial for suppliers, which forces everyone to buy goods other than what we want - in the best case, in the worst case, none at all, goods that ultimately do not suit anyone and are overpriced. This is a completely absurd situation. I would like to remind the debate on plenary last December. We have all agreed that the current regulation is unsatisfactory for universities and similar bodies of similar institutions. The Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová also supported this view, but with the testimony that the amendment to the law is redundant, as the Ministry has issued a clear position on this issue, which we can find on the web. Although I am happy to support the Minister, I must remind you that only courts can make binding interpretations of laws in the Czech Republic. And any opinions of ministries or other authorities have no legal obligation. So we can't be surprised at the university presidents that they don't put themselves at excessive risk, even in criminal terms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u3	I'm afraid, Mr. Ambassador, that you've exhausted your time for interpelation, and I'm going to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u4	For these reasons, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you whether you have a similar opinion to that of me and many of us that universities are supposed to be contracting authorities, and you would support the amendment of the law in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u6	Thank you. Good afternoon, honourable Members. The problem mentioned by Mr Karamazov. I know that he does not mention this topic here for the first time at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, the subject from his side has been repeatedly opened. We were here last year discussing the technical amendment to the Procurement Act. At a time when we were discussing it - I am glad that we approved it because in a number of cases it turns out that it was a step in the right direction - so at the same time the government promised to prepare a new law on public procurement. The work is going on intensively at the moment. It's not easy, of course. I'll get back to it. But I suppose this should also bring about a positive shift in the issue that was mentioned here by the Member. So, as far as the new law on public procurement is concerned, the government's substantive intention was approved on 16 March this year, the proposal should be submitted to the government by the end of this month. For the time being, efficiency is expected to be in April 2016. At this point, the law is in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, and the fact that it is a closely monitored law also shows that more than three and a half thousand comments have been made by all commentary points. So naturally it is a certain tax for the fact that the legislative process is already transparent in the Czech Republic today, that it gives an opportunity for a large range of entities to comment on draft laws at the time the government prepares them. So three and a half thousand comments that are being settled at the moment and will be settled from the point of view of the Ministry of Regional Development. With regard to the subject referred to here by the Member, which should be taken into account, the rule for determining the estimated value in the case of procurement by individual operating units is envisaged. So here I want to quote the newly proposed text, which should be in Section 16 of the Operating Unit, where it should therefore be stated "the contracting entity determines the estimated value of the public contract for all its operating units'. However, at the same time, "where an operating entity is an operational entity which has functional autonomy in the award of public contracts or of some of its categories, the estimated value of the public contract may be determined at the level of that entity'. In the case of the Czech Republic, it is considered that the organisational units of the state have functional autonomy. So this is the proposal contained in the law that is currently going through the legislative process and should be discussed in the government. I must also mention that the Ministry of Regional Development's expert commission on this matter confirmed the possibility of implementing public procurement by individual self-employed units according to existing legislation. So here I would like to quote from this opinion: For the purposes of assessing the factual context in determining the estimated value of the contract, the organisational structure of the contracting authority may also be taken into account if it is composed of self-employed units. Where a contracting authority consists of several separate operational units, the estimated value of the contract may be determined separately for such units, but only if such an entity is independently responsible for the award of such contracts, it independently carries out the procurement procedure, decides on the selection of the most appropriate tender and has separate funds earmarked for the payment of the contract. An example can be the municipal parts of statutory cities, faculties of universities, schools and educational establishments without legal personality, but it is not the departments or departments of ministries or self-government offices. [[14.40 hours]] Such management can be given both by legislation and internal organizational regulations or directives. As a general rule, these regulations provide for the division of competences by delegated certain areas of management to sub-operating units. Public contracts relating to these areas of management should be regarded as not related in substance, while others remain within the competence of the central part of the contracting authority. The estimated value of public contracts awarded centrally must be added up even if the items of contracts are used by different parts of the contracting authority. In any case, it must be a long-term management system. It is not possible to take into account the one-off mandate to award a contract or other special purpose circumvention obligation to add similar performance to the contracting authority for the purpose of determining the estimated value, see Sections 13 and 16 of the Public Procurement Act. This is therefore the opinion of the expert commission of the Ministry of Regional Development concerning the interpretation of existing legislation. However, the new proposal should contain explicit wording. Of course, it won't be the only change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u7	I'm sorry, Prime Minister, but the time for an answer is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u8	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u9	If the Member asks an additional question, you'll be able to buy more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u10	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for stopping me, because I didn't look at the board until the moment the timer disappeared, so I was expecting that you might have forgotten to turn it on and that I could speak further, but I respect, of course, that time was up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u11	The Member seems to ask an additional question, so you will still be able to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u12	According to extensive quotations, it is evident that the Prime Minister has prepared for the question that he is taking it seriously, so thank you very much for that. So I would just like to ask - it was quite difficult, I feel that perhaps my comment could be taken into account in some way, but I will ask again if you, as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, think that the faculties should be a contracting authority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u13	I thank you and ask the Prime Minister to complete his reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u14	Thank you. So two comments on your question. Firstly, the government's aim is for us to define this clearly in the new law, so that there is no problem with the interpretation of the Procurement Act. That's the thing. That is why I quoted the draft text of Section 16 concerning operational units, which would include faculties. That's the first thing. And the other thing. There is already an interpretation of the expert commission of the Ministry of Regional Development that this is possible, but it is possible in a situation where it is a long-term defined system by the internal directives of the relevant university, which means that it is a system which is simply not ad hoc adapted for the purposes of one public contract. This means that it must be a system that operates decentralizedly in the long run, behaves as self-employed units, has internal directives, decides on competitions themselves, and is therefore a kind of system that they are used to in the long term. So here it is the reservation in terms of the interpretation of the expert group, because I guess if there was a college acting in some way under the existing system and deciding that the system would change for the purpose of some particular public contract, then that would probably be a procedure that would not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will now ask Mr Marek Ženíšek, who was drawn in second place. Mr Ladislav Šincl will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, I am aware that my interpelation is directly linked to the subject of an emergency meeting that is scheduled for today's 18th hour, however, because it was not entirely clear from your morning statement whether the programme of this extraordinary meeting will be approved and that even those who do not have the right to debate will have the opportunity to concentrate on at least two questions that I consider important, and I would like to hear your point of view, virtually. the answer to them. The European Commission is said to have a plan in place, in cooperation with the countries of North Africa, to set up so-called security zones in the territory of North Africa, which would be financed from the European Union budget and where unsuccessful asylum seekers could return. I remind you that last year, for example, it was more than 50 percent of the refugees. I personally admit that I see this idea as one of the solutions in the medium term and therefore ask what is the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on this matter, whether you do not have more information and whether you are willing to support this solution as one of many and promote it on the ground of the European Union. The second question also concerns a measure that fits into the set of plans in the medium term, and that is the consideration of diving the carrier of the organized crime, and that is why the ships themselves are smugglers. However, this reasoning, according to all information, is based on the need for the approval of the Security Council for such measures. Therefore, I wonder at what stage is this consideration, whether you have this information, whether our representatives in the UN or in the European Commission could possibly find out more and what the position of the Government of the Czech Republic is. yours as prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask you, Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u18	Dear Member, honourable Members, I have checked the clock. It's just been started, thank you. The problem is so complex that by pulling the individual measures out of it, it means that we are trying to give him more peace or attention and it may give him the impression that he will be self-savable. It's just none of this is self-saving, nor is it the creation of detention camps, nor is it the sinking of the transferors' ships. We need a precaution complex. This means that the European Union must act so as to focus on the whole problem as a whole, on what has happened in terms of migration. Firstly, it is important that the European Union takes a realistic look at the security situation of the countries from which a large part of these migrants are coming, identify the reasons why they are leaving these countries and adapt their foreign policy to this, adapt their policy of economic support for these regions and their diplomatic activities. This means that Europe should focus on stabilizing the countries where the largest part of migrants come from. It will not be easy, because the largest part of migrants are coming from countries like Afghanistan - we have been working there for many years and it has cost us x billion crowns, our solidarity with allies and our deployment in Afghanistan, where a significant stream of migration is currently coming from, Syria, which is now broken by the civil war, from Iraq, where today the sectarian war with the Islamic State is raging. So that's one plane. Then, of course, it is Libya and the African states, where once again there is a problem with radical Islamists and the breakdown of Libya itself. The Czech Government supports the idea of creating detention sites in the territory of North Africa in cooperation with the countries located there. Certainly, if the European Union makes progress in negotiating this matter, the Czech Government is ready to support these camps and we are also ready to provide funds to improve living conditions in these camps. Today, we are mainly providing money to support refugee camps for refugees from Syria, which means we are supporting especially refugee camps in Jordan, but we are also ready to support detention camps that would be in the north of Africa. I'm sure you do. However, these measures must also include improving the protection of the Schengen border. We are very sceptical about the effectiveness of the protection of the Schengen border by Italy and Greece. So it seems that the Schengen border doesn't really work. Some countries, such as Macedonia now, are facing this problem by allowing, in principle, the free passage of refugees through their territories, and then there is no wonder the reaction of countries such as Hungary, which are considering technical measures at borders, because it finds that countries located between Turkey and Hungary do not actually take any measures to protect borders, including the protection of the Schengen border. In fact, the only country that is planning such measures is Hungary. So it is definitely important for Schengen to work. [[14.50 hours]] With regard to the European Union security operation, the European Council supported the idea of the operation, the Czech Republic supported it at the European Council. Ms Mogherini acted in New York, to meet with representatives of countries represented in the UN Security Council. I agree with you that without the mandate of the UN Security Council, such an operation may not be possible. It is hard to imagine an agreement with existing conflicted factions in Libya, not one of which, according to the information available to us, is willing to agree to the implementation of this operation in the high seas of Libya, and it is indeed necessary for smuggling ships to be the mandate of the UN Security Council to be a European security operation. Again, this is one of the necessary responses to the crisis. This means that the European security operation should be part of the European Union's overall response to the migration crisis. She won't solve the problem herself, but as part of the reaction, she will. Once again, the Czech Republic is ready to support the implementation of such an operation, but it must be organised by the European Commission, the European Council. We're ready to take part in this operation financially, possibly. our experts, but in any case, this diplomatic meeting is now at the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy, Mrs Mogherini. So it is a task for her, she has a mandate from the European Council. The European Commission has a mandate to do so. What I do not think the European Commission has a mandate for is the submission of compulsory quota systems for the relocation of migrants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u19	Exactly, Prime Minister, thank you. The Member shall ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u20	Very briefly. Thank you for the comprehensive and comprehensive answer. I didn't mention those two questions as something that should be saved in itself, I agree. I understand that the situation is much more complicated, and I expect that we will discuss this in detail or discuss it today after 6:00 p.m. Thank you for the answers to those two questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u21	Thank you, so that's not an additional question. In that case, we will move on, and I will ask Mr Šincl for his intervention and Mrs Váhalová will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, at the end of 2014, the Minister of Finance was presented with a media presentation to prepare a strict lottery law that so-called hard-earned gambling. In this context, he presented that the new law would include strict measures against technical games, so called. cases that reduce pathological phenomena such as: gambling. It was also announced to include increased rates of lottery levies differentiated according to social hazard - 40 percent of technical equipment, or crates, 35 percent for live games and 30 percent for others. However, in some time, lower rates - 35 percent, 30 and 25 percent - were sent to the Ministry of Finance. Subsequently, through Mr Ing. pan Babiš sent to the Chamber of Deputies a mininovel of the Lottery Act, which is merely disguised as an MP, where these rates have fallen to 25%, the only one for all kinds of lotteries without a degree of social hazard, without explaining in this material why these previously publicised rates have been reduced. It's more than strange, in my opinion. Then a new lottery law was introduced by Minister Babiš, who unfortunately only looks like the strict one originally announced by his Deputy Minister Závodský a few months ago. The new proposal is completely toothless and is a parody of hard lottery law. This proposal from the Ministry of Finance workshop goes to the lottery lobby. In addition, the Ministry of Finance only announced its acceptance in 2017. The development of legislative works in the field of lotteries suggests that the Minister of Finance is unlikely to be able to ensure that the Ministry of Finance's legislative materials, processed materials presented in time and in such a quality that they can be discussed by the government and the legislature at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u23	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, your time is up, so I'm gonna ask you to ask the Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u24	I'm interested in your opinion, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u25	Thank you. I'll ask you, Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u26	Thank you. Dear Member, honourable Members, I understand the nervousness that the new Lottery Act has not yet arrived in the Chamber of Deputies, but, frankly, the Chamber of Deputies has been waiting for a new Lottery Act for many years, perhaps even more than ten years, and a comprehensive new regulation in this area has not yet been approved. So far, it's always been dealt with by novels, which means in the past novels have been accepted. The most fundamental amendment was the amendment, which actually pushed through the possibility for municipalities to regulate gambling on their territory, which was approved in years - fought out, not approved, but fought through from 2009 to 2012, where despite the veto of the President of the Republic in a situation when the House could no longer vote over it, then there was a certain agreement on the ground plan of the Government's proposal and the House agreed to give competence to municipalities. And I think it was in 2012, when the resistance was broken, and from this point on, I think the municipalities have a strong chance to regulate gambling. The problem is that in the meantime, especially since 2007, but also in 2008 and 2009, a huge number of permits were issued by the Ministry of Finance. Often those permits were issued in fact, often they were issued so-called. Into supplies. This means that it is registered in those municipalities that have decided to limit gambling by their decrees to prohibit large quantities of valid permits, and at this time there is a struggle to speed up the withdrawal of these valid permits as much as possible, so that it is in accordance with the relevant municipal decrees. Let's say that's the one plane of the problem. The second plane of the problem, you described it, is the debate on the new lottery law. The good news is that the proposal has already arrived at the Government Legislative Council, which means that the proposal, which was announced before last year's municipal elections, arrived at the Government Legislative Council in the spring of this year. At this point, the board will discuss him. I suppose we could, hopefully, discuss the law at government level sometime in the middle of the year, if everything goes well, and send it to the Chamber of Deputies. We will certainly have a debate about the measures and the changes that have taken place in the draft law in the meantime. I agree with what you said that the proposal was very ambitious at the beginning and represented dramatic measures against gambling, especially as regards lottery terminals and slot machines. This means, as presented by the Ministry of Finance before the municipal elections, it was very restrictive and at the moment it was sent to the government, so it is less restrictive. This means that the Ministry of Finance has reduced some of its measures in the framework of the comments procedure. But that doesn't mean that any of these measures can't go back to the law. We had a debate about it in the coalition. We discussed e.g. about a measure that says that after a certain period of time the game should always follow a break. Personally, I think it's reasonable, because in a situation where a person - and there are such cases - I've talked to experts about it, when people who may have played for days at a time are extreme situations. I think it is worth a break to the legislative regulation, and it will certainly be discussed how long, how long, but it is one of those topics that we would like to open up during the debate in the government. I also think that it would be worth discussing the question of the maximum amount that can be lost within a time limit. What I think is interesting from the point of view of the law are gambling cards, which should actually allow certain records of players and exclude from games on slot machines people who will fall into the legally defined category, e.g. Those who have problems with pathological gambling. So, yes, the proposal, as it came from the Treasury, is much less ambitious than it was before the municipal elections, and we're going to want to debate it, and we're going to try to incorporate some sensible measures into the law in the government. And then it will be in the Chamber of Deputies. [[15.00 hours]] Otherwise, the question of the amendment that has been tabled here, which deals only with the taxation of gambling, is, I think, a matter which is also very strongly linked to the question of how we will ever finance in the coming years activities relating to sport and which have been financed in the past from gambling. They lost part of their funding today, and I think we still need to have a debate on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Šincl will not ask an additional question. In that case, Mrs Váhalová has another interview prepared and Mr Seďa will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, on Monday 15 June you met the Vice-President of the State Council of the People's Republic of China. According to media reports, a total of 9 memorandums on cooperation in the field of transport connections, infrastructure, health and education were to be signed. Could you specify these memorandums including the contribution to the Czech Republic? Since its accession, the government has intensified relations with the People's Republic of China, and after your negotiations with the Chinese Prime Minister at the Belgrade Summit on 16 December 2014 and with the Chinese Vice Prime Minister at the Chinese Investment Forum in Prague on 28 August 2014, this is another important meeting. The People's Republic of China is the second largest importer for the Czech Republic and trade turnover increases every year. They are therefore among the most important economic partners. Although Czechoslovakia has traditionally had a positive trade balance with the People's Republic of China, the current situation is different. With the People's Republic of China, we have a huge trade deficit when we import goods from China for CZK 360 billion and our exports are only CZK 42 billion. In this context, I also wanted to ask about possible measures to increase our exports to the People's Republic of China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u29	I thank you, Madame, and I will ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u30	Thank you. Madam, a real step up of political and economic relations with China is part of the new economic strategy of the Czech Government. We have identified ways to strengthen our exports in a relatively short time and how to get new investments in a relatively short time, and when we have analysed the situation in Asia, there have been two priority countries to which our government is focusing. The first priority country is China, and I will talk about it, and the next priority country is the Republic of Korea. As far as the Republic of Korea is concerned, we have managed to obtain new direct investments during last year, for which specific investment incentives have already been signed, and there has also been a direct air link established in previous years during the previous government and a significant increase in the number of Korean tourists in the Czech Republic. So that's where we continue our activities. A branch of CzechInvest in Seoul was also established there. I visited the Republic of Korea. I expect the Czech Republic to be visited by a Korean president with a strong business delegation. As far as China is concerned, we do likewise. Political relations have been intensified. Last year, the President of the Czech Republic visited China. So there has been a restoration of political relations at the highest level. In the spring of this year, the President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček visited China, who participated in the technological trade fair in Shanghai. Once again, there was a business delegation with him. I'm going to visit China in the autumn of this year, where I will attend the summit of the premieres of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe organized and hosted by China. On that occasion, I would also like to bring with me a large business delegation. We have now agreed on a visit to the Chinese vice-premiere, which was here in the Czech Republic for several days, and the main reason for this was the summit of 16 Central and Eastern European health ministers, we have confirmed that a direct flight line between Prague and Beijing will be established. That direct line should be operated by the Chinese airline Hainan. So this decision has already been made, it is confirmed, and now it will only depend on direct communication between Hainan and Czech Aeroholding. But I suppose everything should be fine. We expect direct air links to strengthen the influx of tourists from China. When we look at the last two years, we note a gradual increase in the number of tourists from China who visit the Czech Republic. Likewise, China's investments have been significantly increased every year in the last two years, and our exports to China have also been able to increase. This means mutual trade is growing, and it is a situation that I think is establishing a positive trend for the Czech Republic, and it is important that our entrepreneurs take advantage of this opportunity. So the numbers are talking about China's investment growing here. Significant investments were made in the financial sector. It seems that investments can also be made in the production sector and our exports to China are strengthened, which, in my view, has contributed a lot to the new policy of the Czech Government. So strengthening political communication, improving trade relations, trying to speed up and broaden visa opportunities for Chinese citizens who will travel to the Czech Republic, I think these are all measures that have had and, in my opinion, will still have a positive impact on economic development in our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u31	Thank you. The Member is going to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u32	I'm more of a thank-you note. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Government, because in recent years the Czech Republic has been profiling with the offer of modern technologies in sectors such as nanotechnology, biotechnology, environmental protection of IT systems, so we certainly have something to offer and we are not an outsider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u33	Thank you, Madame. And I will now request an interview from Mr Seďa and Mrs Fischerová will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, the deadline has expired since the submission of the deadline for the financing of political parties for the past year, and the political parties have submitted these financial statements to the Supervisory Committee. And, behold, once again, Parliament's Supervisory Committee has found a number of errors. I would like to remind you that the political parties' own funding is addressed in the Act on Association in political parties and movements. The long-term effort is to achieve open, transparent funding, but the last event on live coverage of funding, for example, the political movement Dawn of Direct Democracy shows that it is really five minutes past 12 to adopt new rules not only for the financing of political parties, but also for limiting the amount of electoral costs, because it turns out that in recent years different movements have been created that serve political entrepreneurship rather than democratic competition for political programmes. Prime Minister, I would like to ask whether you are also aware of the problems of financing political parties and movements and whether your government intends to address this problem in the foreseeable future. And if so, what is the current state of preparation of the necessary legislation. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u35	I thank you for your intervention, and I will ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u36	Thank you. Dear Member, these questions are addressed by the upcoming amendment to the Act on political parties prepared by the Ministry of the Interior. There are a number of issues that are addressed there, but they are linked by one thing, and that is the recommendation of the Council of Europe's GRECO in the context of strengthening the fight against corruption. This committee has addressed a recommendation in the past to the Czech Republic on how to adjust the rules for financing our political parties. We took the recommendations and projected them for the upcoming amendment to the Political Party Act. And so, as I am informed from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, the recommendations are respected. So the proposal is prepared to comply with these recommendations. In particular, the aim is to enhance transparency in the financing of political parties, which means ensuring that political parties are financed primarily through transparent accounts. The aim is also to strengthen the independence of the control of the management of political parties. Here we propose that a small office be set up to deal specifically with the issue of controlling the management of political parties. We had quite a big debate on this issue in the coalition. To be honest, we really did not want to establish a new office, but it seems that we should implement this important recommendation of GRECO towards the Czech Republic, so there will probably be no other way than to establish such a small functional office. [[15.10 hours]] At the same time, however, the information obligation of political parties should also be strengthened as regards the costs of electoral campaigns, and I consider what is mentioned in the coalition agreement as crucial, that is to say, we will put a stop to donations to political parties. It is also certainly important that loans are adjusted for political parties, so that those loans are granted transparently, so that they are provided by entities authorised to lend funds to do so. It is also important, I think, that, in terms of cropping donations, a limit is set that would make it impossible for a political party to be entirely dependent, for example, on a single economic entity. There, in a situation where the party is connected very closely with a single economic entity, there is a risk that this political party may, of course, be in conflict of interest. So our effort is to comply with the GRECO recommendation. Our goal is to strengthen transparency in the financing of political parties, set limits for sponsorship. The coalition has not yet come to an agreement that it would be possible to completely prohibit sponsorship by legal entities, or a compromise that is so far being prepared and proposed that a limit will therefore be set, a maximum limit for donations from natural persons, but also from legal entities in terms of the functioning of the political party. The obligation to change the auditor of the political party after a certain period of time will also be enshrined. This means that there is a rotation of auditors, so that there is no long-term control and evaluation of the management of political parties by only one audit firm. So many specific examples of what the amendment to the Act on the financing of political parties, prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, deals with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u37	Thank you. The Member will have an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u38	Thank you, Mr President. From the point of view of social democracy, the gifts of legal persons are a fundamental issue. You mentioned it here. So that, let's say, companies or business entities can't buy political parties. I had such a question about the deadline for the presentation of legislation, if the government already has an idea about the presentation of this law. I wanted to ask you about the transparency of these loans, if you could say something more detailed about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u39	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u40	Thank you. I hope that the proposal can be discussed so that it can be approved by the government before the government's holiday. But it's gonna depend on how the Home Office is gonna finish. In any case, it would be a good idea for us to discuss this draft law on Parliament's floor this year. As regards the question of the transparency of loans, what is proposed in the new regulation is that loans to political parties above the limit, which I believe is set for a member contribution, could only be granted by entities authorised to do so by the Czech National Bank. This means that the parties could only borrow from banks, possibly from cooperative funds and from entities licensed and supervised by the Czech National Bank. They couldn't take high loans from firms or individuals. So it is really an effort to set financing so that it has standards within the banking sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u41	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read the two note cards that came to me. Today, Minister Jan Mládek apologizes from 17:00 for urgent reasons of work, and today from 3:15 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Mrs Šánová apologizes for reasons of work. I will now ask Mrs Fischerová to interview her, and Mr Radim Holeček will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr Prime Minister, I know from the media that EU Member States' diplomats agreed just yesterday to extend economic sanctions against Russia and agreed on the deadline until the end of January 2016. This step on Monday 22. 6. Supposedly, the Ministers of Foreign Affairs will formally confirm the twenty-eighties at their meeting in Luxembourg. To extend sanctions and determination, the leaders of the states and governments of the Member States of the Union at their summit in March of this year have already made it clear at political level. European economic sanctions, which prohibit the export of certain Russian technologies and restrict Russian access to financial markets, launched the European Union last summer and expanded them in early September. Like all European measures of this type, they are of limited duration and would end at the end of July of this year without extension. In March, diplomats also discussed the possibility of releasing, where appropriate, economic measures in relation to how to promote and respect the Minsk agreements on the ground. On the contrary, after the recent sharpening of the ongoing struggles, reflections on the possible strengthening of the measures taken have begun to appeal. At the end of next week, even the presidents and prime ministers of the 28th will probably avoid confirmation at the EU Brussels summit. And I ask you now, Prime Minister, what will be the negotiating position of the Czech Republic and whether you will require tightening the sanctions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u43	I also thank you, Madame, and I will ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u44	Thank you. On the question of sanctions, first, we pay for sanctions as the Czech Republic. So it is not a measure that would have a neutral or positive impact on our economy. It is a measure that has a negative impact on our economy. Last year there was a decline in mutual trade with Russia and a decrease in our exports to Russia. After all, there has also been a decline in tourism, but this has nothing to do with sanctions, but it has something to do with the overall tension in this part of Europe. So sanctions have a negative impact on the Czech economy. Fortunately, many companies have been able to cope with sanctions or anti-sanctions by Russia. That means they're looking for outlets in other markets. On the other hand, in the event of a deepening of sectoral sanctions, it must be assumed that this will have further negative effects on both the economy of companies that are oriented towards exports to the eastern markets and, of course, on their employment. Secondly, sanctions are linked to the implementation of the Minsk agreements. This is the conclusion of all the previous European Council negotiations, because it was clearly said that sanctions must monitor the implementation of the Minsk agreements and, if the Minsk agreements are implemented or fulfilled, there may be grounds for reducing sanctions. In the event that the Minsk agreements are not implemented, this is a reason for extending or increasing sanctions. I think this is also a consensus within the EU. It also appears that there is agreement between European countries that sectoral sanctions, which should automatically expire in mid-year, should be extended until the end of this year, respectively until January 2016. There's a match on that, too. This is not, however, an increase in sanctions, but an extension of the existing sanctions in the sector areas introduced by the EU. The diplomats agreed on that. I therefore assume that this will be confirmed by the Council at its meeting with the participation of foreign ministers. If there is a consensus, then there will in principle be an extension of sanctions until January at the current level. The Czech Republic will not propose an increase in sanctions, nor did it propose that in the debate that was conducted. We believe that extending the existing sanctions by the end of January next year is sufficient to make it clear that the European Union depends on compliance with the Minsk agreements and that the European Union will monitor compliance with the Minsk agreements, and there is a chance of reducing or tightening up sanctions in case the situation in the east of Ukraine becomes dramatically complicated. [[15.20 hours]] Given that a working contact group in Minsk has reunited in recent days, it is clear that the dialogue between the Russian and Ukrainian parties is continuing. Clearly, there are ways to ensure that individual commitments from the Minsk Agreement are fulfilled. There is also a dialogue on the status of Donbas in Ukraine as a whole and there has been no renewal of the fights to the extent that they were fighting against the closure of Minsk II. So it seems to me that developments are more likely to improve the situation, or at least the situation is not getting worse, and therefore I do not see the reason from the point of view of the Czech Republic that we should propose tightening sanctions. What is important to note is that the main problem of today's Russian economy is the decline in oil and gas prices on world markets. This, of course, hit the Russian economy very hard. And the second point is that the declines in the Ukrainian economy are even more pronounced than those in the Russian economy. I also see the problem with the fact that we should not only discuss sanctions, but we should also discuss how to help the Ukrainian economy and how to help Ukraine stabilise, because Ukraine is going through a rather significant security but also political but also economic crisis. I think that's something we shouldn't forget. So not only discuss sanctions, but also discuss what to do with the Ukrainian economy. And just to remind you that the deep decline in the Ukrainian economy is not only linked to the fight that is taking place in Donbas, but also to the decline in the Russian economy. The Ukrainian and Russian economies are still very closely linked and, of course, Russia's decline is also tearing down the situation in Ukraine. I think that's a factor we shouldn't forget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u45	Thank you. The Member is satisfied with the answer. Well, in that case, let's move on. Another with the interview is Mr Radim Holeček and Mr Martin Lank will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u46	Hello. Dear Prime Minister, it's been two days since the headlined articles came out of the media like, "Babišův's company destroyed competition with herbicides." Babišův's company is accused of destroying his competitor's crop. Babišův Agrofert destroyed the crop for the farmer with whom he had a dispute. The farmer lost his crop after a dispute with Agrofert, sprayed it with herbicides. The agriferte announcer also joined in more servilently today: farmers are fighting over Babiš's field, seeded wheat destroyed the herbicide. I have no intention of discussing who owns the field and who owns the wheat crop, which seems to have been the herbicide of the hardest caliber. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, as head of our Czech government as a layman: Is this normal in your opinion? I am a university teacher, and I have neither agricultural education nor experience in agribusiness. But even a teacher can have a healthy common sense. And this common sense tells me that such a way of dealing with arable land and its growing and ripening crop is not only not normal, but is absolutely terrifying and reprehensible. The fact that such a way of competing or other fighting resembles more the practices of the Sicilian Mafia, I hope I will not even prefer to divorce. In addition to the aesthebacist methods - see the most recent extortion of a Member by means of ties led to it - we have the practice of purely mafia. I would like to repeat the question, Prime Minister. Do you consider such treatment of land and crops in the Czech Republic normal? And I add other questions: Is such a way of dealing with land and crop growing legal on it? Does the cold fact that strange things are constantly happening around your finance minister? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your interpellation and I will ask the Prime Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u48	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, of course I think that this thing is certainly worth the attention. But I think it's part of a series of problems that are linked to a single fact. They are linked to the fact that the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, unlike Slovak President Kiska, did not give up his business when he actively joined politics. That's what I think is the main problem. And that's what all the other cases that are here and that can be mentioned, which are being debated, whether or not it's a conflict of interest, whether or not it's okay. Andrej Babiš was the owner of all the companies he owned before he joined politics and, given that he is also the owner of a significant number of media, that these companies also operate in agriculture, so can appear cases that have been pointed out in recent days. I think that a sensible, clean solution was chosen by Slovak President Kiska, who was also a successful businessman and, before entering politics, sold his company, that is, got rid of direct involvement in the business environment and can devote himself to the office of the Slovak President without being confronted with any specific cases relating to his companies. That's what I think is the path that Andrej Babiš should choose. I mentioned the subject when we started our coalition cooperation. Unfortunately, the coalition partner had not responded to this before about a year and a quarter. He decided to go the other way. In my opinion, this is not the right decision, and sooner or later, Andrej Babiš may have to think about whether he should really give up his immediate business engagement and devote himself solely to public life, or whether he should return from public life to business engagement. In a situation where these things are connected in a way that we are experiencing today, it logically burdens both the work of Andrej Babiš as Minister of Finance and the functioning of the government coalition. So the story you described, I think, is a story that unfortunately has something to do with the current link between business and politics, which I'm sure isn't okay. And I think the main problem is that the employees of Agro Jevišovice have reduced Mr Bohumír Rada's wheat crop at an estimated value of CZK 4 million, based on the dispute over the right to dispose of the land on which the wheat was sown. I think that such a solution to a business dispute is not normal, that Agro Jevišovice should have acted in a different way and should not have intervened in such an aggressive way against Mr Rad. I think that for Agrofert and the Minister of Finance, there is an opportunity here to resolve this matter in an amicable manner and eventually to compensate for the damage suffered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Holeček will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u50	Prime Minister, do you agree with the practices of Andrej Babiš? Yes - no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u51	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u52	I do not agree with the procedure chosen by Agro Jevišovice. It's owned by Agrofert. So there is a property structure that is directly linked to the Minister of Finance. But I don't agree with the procedure that this company has chosen. So it's not. I think that in a civilised country, in a democratic legal state, such business entities should not behave towards each other and it is not possible for wheat crops to be destroyed on such a large scale as a result of a business dispute. The dispute is to be dealt with in court, it is to be dealt with by the authorities, that is to say, it is to be dealt with within the institutions of the rule of law and it should not be dealt with in the way that it has happened. But the fact that we are dealing with this here in the Chamber of Deputies has unfortunately to do with Andrej Babiš's choosing a path where he connects his business and political career.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u53	Thank you. I will now request an interview from Mr Lank and Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon the server securitymagazin.cz drew attention to an interesting website called w2eu.info, which provides information for refugees and migrants, how to circumvent police controls and how to conceal evidence of their movements, and let us put it to the brink of how to abuse an advanced human rights system in Europe. [[15.30 hours]] Just for example, just so you know what I'm talking about, I quote from the above website: If you apply for asylum, the first thing the police will find out is whether you were in another country of the European Union before. Therefore, if you have not been fingerprinted before, do not carry coins, train tickets from another country, so that this is not used as evidence for non-adventure asylum. Or further: Austria has not stopped deportation to Greece, and single men over the age of 18 are at risk. If you are in danger of deportation to Greece, you must appeal immediately to the European Court of Human Rights. That's the only way you can stop deportation. Prime Minister, it has long been speculated that the current wave of refugees, particularly from North Africa, is being controlled by someone. And this server gives, say, some credibility to these speculations and shows that the flow of thousands of immigrants may be supported directly by some organisations within the European Union. My question has something to do with that. I would like to ask you if you can tell us whether the Czech security forces have information on whether illegal immigration to the European Union is centrally managed or not, to distract speculation. And possibly the second question whether there are any organizations in the Czech Republic that provide information on how to obtain asylum in the Czech Republic and how to circumvent the Czech asylum law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister to respond to your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u56	Thank you, honourable Member. Of course there are smuggling networks. Those smuggling networks are now the most developed in countries such as: Libya, through which a large refugee wave is now passing, which ends in particular in Italy and Malta. Of course, there is a smuggling network in countries like Turkey. It's connected to Syria's territory, Iraq's territory. Of course, it can also have contacts in some Albanian countries, and that is the second great refugee current that is now heading to the countries of the European Union. As I have already mentioned, the most common among migrants today are citizens of countries such as Syria, such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, but also from some African countries. We have agreed on a European Council meeting, and it is also a priority for foreign ministers and justice ministers of individual countries of the European Union, that they will significantly strengthen cooperation in the form of exchange of information on these international smuggling networks. One of the conclusions adopted by the European Council is also an effort to intervene more strongly towards breaking them down. He is a bargain business even for a number of entrepreneurs in those countries that are now flooded by refugees. A lot of them are just making money off of it, in the transfer network mediation, so today it's a really good business. This applies - with the number of refugees, it is now hundreds of millions of dollars that move within this business. Perhaps even several billions in order. And, of course, there is a demand for mediation for these services, and there is also an offer that meets that demand. I'm sure migration waves aren't triggered by these people's smugglers. They are not provoked, but they are parasitic to the social and security situation in those countries where most people are fleeing to Europe. It's organized crime. Organized crime needs to be defended and I assume that the Police of the Czech Republic and the security forces, security services in the Czech Republic are also paying attention to this area. That means we don't have organized crime structures here that focus on their participation in the smuggling networks. The Czech Republic is not the target country, we will certainly talk about this tonight. However, we can be a country through which refugees can also cross, and it is important that there is no infrastructure in the form of organised crime that would assist in the functioning of these smuggling networks within Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. It's not like that, thank you. In that case, next in line is Mr Kolovratník with his interpelling and Mr Stanjura will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u58	Thank you for your space and have a good afternoon, Mr President and Mr Prime Minister. Prime Minister, I am referring to you in my view to an unprecedented violation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies concerning this year's election of members of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, it is she. a great media council. At the beginning of the speech, I would like to point out that I am interpelling from the position of President of the House's Election Commission, who is legally responsible for compliance with legal provisions in all elections and nominations by the House. In one such election this May, in my opinion, there has been a direct violation of the resolution in force by the Chamber of Deputies. It is Resolution No. 732 of 29. 4. 2015. And I'm going to offer a short recap, as I have come to this opinion. According to Law No. 231/2001 Sb. § 7 The members of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council shall be appointed and recalled by the Prime Minister on a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies. During this spring and summer, the mandate of individual members ended and ended. One seat has been vacant, four seats have become vacant on 16 May, another two on 23 May and only one seat will be released, it is the end of the mandate of Mrs Irena Ondrová, on 26 July 2015, i.e. about a month and a half. How was the trial in the House? The Election Commission has asked the Chamber of Deputies to submit proposals for candidates by 27 March. Then, on 31 March, the electoral commission met and adopted its resolution No. 105, where she accepted the nominations. And here's the key moment. The Election Commission in Resolution No. 105 also, with the participation of representatives of all political parties, has clearly set out the key to when individual elected members of RRTV can begin their term of office. To put it simply, the key has been set up and agreed so that those parliamentary periods will begin according to the success of the candidates in the individual -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u59	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm afraid your time is up. I'd ask you to ask a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u60	Oh, I'm sorry, very briefly. In my opinion, a member of the Council and the current President, Mr Ivan krejčí, was elected in violation of House No. 732, when you, Prime Minister, appointed him on 24th. 5. but he may not be appointed until 27. 7. 2015. My question is, why did this happen and what will be your solution to this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u61	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u62	Thank you. Dear Member, very generally, I would like to refer you to the Supreme Administrative Court ruling of 30. 11. 2006, in which the Supreme Administrative Court decided whether the Prime Minister's decision to dismiss the members of the Board was reviewed within the administrative judiciary. I just want to remind you that, in the context of this decision, the Supreme Administrative Court also commented on the issue of the commitment of the Prime Minister by a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies. From that decision of the Supreme Court, it can be concluded that the final decision to appoint a member of the Board is on the part of the Prime Minister. That's the first point. So I'm based on the legal opinion that I've had the Office of the Government process. I have acted in accordance with this legal opinion. I received a motion from the President of the Chamber of Deputies by letter from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, where these proposed elected candidates were listed in alphabetical order. I have decided to appoint these candidates in alphabetical order, and I have decided to name them in a way that none of them can benefit or there will be any inequality between them in terms of the time and time within which they were appointed. That means I have appointed these candidates in alphabetical order on one date on 24 May this year. Only the last candidate who was put last in alphabetical order, so this candidate could not be appointed because of 24. 5. there was no vacancy for him, so I appointed this candidate until 27 July this year. [[15.40 hours]] The candidate, who would in any way be disadvantaged or appointed last, is Mrs Zvěřinová's candidate. Thus, the other candidates were appointed at one date on the basis of alphabetical order, i.e. I was based on alphabetical order, from the letter of the President of the Chamber of Deputies and from the date on which the respective mandates were released. I believe that I have also completed this decision immediately, because I have received the nomination proposal on 6 May and I have appointed the candidates so that they can be appointed on 24 May this year. I respected all the names elected by the Chamber of Deputies, I did not reject any name from the point of view of my decision, and I merely named them in alphabetical order, which I consider to be a neutral decision in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u63	Thank you, Prime Minister. I wonder if you will have an additional question, Mr. Ambassador. It's not like that. In that case, we will proceed to the interview number 10, which Mr Stanjura has, and Mr Benda will be prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u64	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I hope you agree that you, as a person, are responsible for all members of your government, whether from your political side or from other political parties. This week the Czech public learned two important events in my opinion. First of all, the company of Minister Babiš burns the field to its business competitors. In my opinion, these are unfair practices in a competitive struggle, which I don't think is part of a normal competitive struggle. Yesterday, we learned from your MP, a member of your MP's club, that he had a meeting with the Minister of Finance and that he felt he was being intimidated or blackmailed by the Minister of Finance. In my opinion, this is an illegal, unfair method of political struggle. You called off the Minister of Education a few days ago, considering, according to your statement, that he had improperly voted for the words to his subordinates. First question: whether you have other demands on the Minister of Education, former or existing Minister of Finance, or not. Two: If you know whether Andrej Babiš has a file on you, on members of the coalition council, on members of coalition clubs or on members of opposition clubs. Here you ask him, and if he answers yes, if you ask him not to use it as part of the political struggle. One last question. In the last plenary, the Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution calling on you to deal with the Financial Management of the political movement YES 2011 which, in my opinion, did not admit income tax because it collected money for its Members' advisory work - I think it is contrary to the law on political parties - and if not, it should have been VAT payer, and it does not pay VAT. What you've done at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u66	Dear Member, I have already addressed the previous question concerning Mr Bohumír Rada's case and his dispute with Agro Jevišovice. I can only reiterate that I do not agree with the method used and that trade disputes should not be dealt with in this form in a democratic legal state. So here's my position, I think, clear. As regards the case of Mr Šincl's dispute and the Minister of Finance of Babiš, first of all I have to say that we are gathered today at the coalition council meeting, I, too, have asked, on the basis of the resolution of Mr Shincl's Social Democracy, that the Coalition Council should deal with this incident which took place yesterday in the Chamber of Deputies. I have asked the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the ANO movement to change his behaviour towards Members of the Chamber of Deputies. I must say that it does not really matter whether this case concerns Mr Šincl or anyone else today. I think it is important that we keep certain limits on the Minister's behaviour towards Members. I'll tell you why. I think that it is not possible for a Member to be afraid at the moment when he does the interpelation or raises a question to the Minister or is making an amendment to the Government's bill to fear automatically that the reaction of the Government or the Minister to this activity will involve some personal de-honest campaign. This would simply restrict the functioning of democracy, in my opinion, Parliament has a controlling role, MEPs have to control the government, and the minister has to suffer criticism. This means, as part of the work of the Minister, a member of the Government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, he must suffer criticism from Members, senators, but also from all other citizens, and he must be able to deal with the criticism in a way consistent with the democratic rule of law. I consider the appearance of Minister Babiš to Mr Šincl to be unacceptable at a meeting on a specific bill, and I consider it to be beyond the limits that should not be exceeded, and I have asked the Minister of Finance during today's meeting of the Coalition Council not to proceed in this way. I asked him to apologize to Mr Šincl, the Minister of Finance refused. So I asked him, at least, to meet with Mr Šincl, to discuss the matter and try to close the matter. So I assume that the Minister of Finance will meet with Mr Šincl and discuss the whole incident and tell us the outcome of this meeting. So I think that this is a procedure that is not right, which is why we have also turned against it, both our parliamentary club and the leadership of social democracy, and we have discussed this matter with our coalition partners as part of today's coalition council meeting. My idea is that the Minister of Government should not in any way involve personal attacks on Members in the debate on draft laws on government policy as such. That just doesn't belong in politics, and I think it was a big step on the side of the Minister of Finance, and I assume he's aware of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u67	Thank you, Prime Minister. President Stanjura will ask an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u68	Well, the interpelations are useless if you don't answer me, Prime Minister. I asked you a different question. I asked if you checked with Minister Babiš if he had a file on you, the other members of the coalition council, the coalition opposition. Whether or not you asked him not to use such files. And what you did, how you fulfilled the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, that the Financial Administration should have checked the funding of the political movement YES 2011 and the suspicion that it did not pay due taxes. Neither income tax nor value added tax. You haven't answered either of my questions. And I have one more question: do you know that all the members of the YES movement voted in favour of the proposal by Ladislav Šincl at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets? For a proposal, not against a proposal. And today you are listening to the speech by the Minister of Finance, who says that he is saving citizens, that your Member is a suspect, a vicious one, but his own Members voted in favour of Mr Šincl's proposal. What do you say?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u69	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u70	First of all, I want to thank you for pointing out the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies at this point. I must say, Mr President, that I am not directly informed of this resolution, which means I will request this resolution and I will respond to it from the position of Prime Minister. So I'll get to know the resolution and the event. I shall provide the House with information on the procedure to be followed by the Office of the Government on this matter. First of all. Two. With regard to Mr Šincl's proposal and what is happening now, I was informed during the coalition board meeting that the Ministry of Finance had come up with a new proposal on how to adjust the situation between insurance companies and intermediaries, and the new proposal, as I understand it, was initiated by Mr Šincl's initiative. That means there's a certain and factual shift going on in the debate that's here. I think that Mr Šincl's proposal probably forced the Ministry of Finance to adjust its original negative position, so it is looking for a compromise. That's a positive shift, I think. And if Mr Šincl's proposal, the original one, had contributed to the fact that the Ministry of Finance would be looking for some more balanced form of regulation that would be in favour of insurance clients, I think it would not be a bad result at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u71	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before we go on, I will read the note that arrived, and that is that today, from the afternoon meeting for personal reasons, Mr Jiří Junek apologizes. We will now proceed to the 11th interpellation, and this is Mr Marek Benda. Madame Němcová will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u72	Dear Prime Minister, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only following up on the chairman of the Stanjuru Club, but I think it is quite advantageous. Here is still distracted from what happened yesterday in the House of Deputies to some material dispute over some kind of insurance. Today, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, chairman of one of the coalition parties, will speak out and say that he hopes that Babiš and Šincl will settle the dispute among themselves. I don't think this is about any Babiš-Šincl dispute. This is about whether the Prime Minister is keeping files on individual members of this Chamber of Deputies, whether he is going to negotiate with them and whether he is opening them there. You said personal defensive campaigns were something that didn't belong in politics. I agree with you, although, as you well know, Vice-President Babiš has been able to tell us nothing but personal defensive campaigns since this counter. He's never answered any kind of question other than stealing those carousels. [[to put it softly]] But the devil took it. All I'm asking is whether you really consider it possible for the individual Members of this Chamber to be led, that these files be brought to committee meetings or their bodies and that someone tells us: you may speak and you must not speak according to what I have in my file and what I think of you. And then, of course, I would be very interested, and that would undoubtedly be possible to find out from the participants of the negotiations whether there are only things in that file that are from open sources, or whether it is a private security service that brings it together for Mr. Babiš, as it did in the past by Public Affairs and Bárta. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u74	The Member has followed up on the previous interpellation. I was not at the meeting yesterday, but I listened to Mr Šincl's position. I have listened to Mr Votava's position. Andrej Babiš can tell you about the materials available to him at the meeting, and I can't give you any details about that. However, this is not about the substance of the law's dispute right now. We have this kind of dispute here today and every day. But I think what's crucial is what form and at what level we're going to communicate with each other here. Such negotiations take place here today and every day, we negotiate with Members, ministers negotiate with Members, political parties negotiate with each other, and it is about what will be the content of these negotiations. If it's any personal data, if it's the effort of personal data, if it's personal information to use for political pressure, or if we're going to talk about what's in the proposals, and we're going to define ourselves according to our political parties' agenda. I'm up for the other one. I just think that we should define ourselves on the basis of the programs we were elected for, based on the interests of the voters we represent here, and we should not resort to the procedures that we probably saw here yesterday afternoon. And I think it must be said from the beginning that we cannot treat ourselves this way, because we would get caught up in something that would further devalue parliamentary democracy in the eyes of citizens. If we say to ourselves, and we have tried to make it clear to our coalition partners today at the coalition council meeting, that this is not the way we should communicate - and it is not only in the coalition, but also between the coalition and the opposition - that this is not the way, I hope it will lead to the Minister of Finance not acting this way again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u75	Thank you. I wonder if Mr Benda - will have an additional question. In that case, I shall ask Mrs Němcová to interview her and Mr Bendl will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u76	Thank you. I will follow up, Prime Minister, on what my colleagues, President Stanjura and colleague Marek Benda have said here. We're just trying to make this very simple, if the cop manners of someone gathering some weird material on their opponents, not only political, if they seem normal and acceptable to you from a member of your government. You guys are using such nice turns that we're not supposed to treat each other like this. Well, I guess that's what the teacher tells the kids at school when they're pulling their hair. But you are the Prime Minister who has the first Vice-President of a man who carries files against his coalition partners and threatens them and intimidates them. This is not just the first thing in political terms. He collects similar materials. If you read what was going on around the possible proposal for the mayor of Prague, so when Mr. Kasl refused to become one, the lieutenant was immediately Kleslová to find something on him. Recalling how Andrej Babiš threatened the media when Echo wrote something unflattering about him, he immediately threatened financial control. TV Barrandov likewise, Czech TV and its programme Reporters too. Mr Pavel Šafr, editor-in-chief of the Free Forum, the same thing. Thus, the media sphere of free independent newspapers, not the media agrifert division, is threatened for their independent attitudes. Members are intimidated, private individuals are threatened with checks and gradual liquidation, as has been shown in the case of those two who protested against register cash registers. I want to say that this is not an isolated excess, that this is the method used by your first Deputy Prime Minister, for whom you are directly responsible, and I want to ask you what time you intend to tolerate this, this transition to the oligarchisation of the Czech society, which is no longer called almost the Czech Republic, is based on a parliamentary democratic system, but there is some new order created here by Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u77	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u78	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, of course I am responsible for the Government on the basis of the Constitution before this Chamber of Deputies. You have certainly noticed, especially the opponents, that the government has gained confidence quite recently in the vote in the Chamber of Deputies, where there was a proposal for distrust to be expressed to the government. The government has defended its position, and I am responsible not only for the government, but also for the government's failure to disappoint citizens' expectations, to be able to fulfill its government program, to honour the commitments that all three coalition parties have made to each other when we have decided to create this coalition. And at the same time, there's a certain dilemma that we all feel and we're having a debate around here. We had a debate about the dilemma today at the meeting of the social democracy club and the leadership of social democracy. The point is, of course, the proverb cannot apply that the purpose justifies the means. He just can't pay. Neither for the government nor for our efforts to fulfil our electoral programme can the purpose be justified by the means, and therefore, as one of the coalition parties, as a social democracy, we have clearly defined ourselves negatively against the move taken yesterday by the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš towards Members of Ladislav Šincl. And that is the position that we have clearly taken on this matter, and I will continue to act in accordance with my conscience, but at the same time to act as the responsible Prime Minister, who guarantees citizens that this government will not be another disappointment to them, as the governments have been past to them. And on that disappointment and on those governments of the past, I think that, in particular, Members in the right part of the Chamber of Deputies know something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u79	Thank you. The Member is going to ask an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u80	I want to ask you a third time, Prime Minister, what about the files. Your colleague Stanjura, Mr Benda, asked you about three good things. Do you know which files Andrej Babiš is leading to? Did you ask him how he did it? If he's got his own Agrofert police division, who's processing all this for him? Did you tell him that it is unacceptable for you, as Prime Minister, to have someone like that sitting in your government with such methods? Did you guys talk about it or didn't talk about it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u81	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u82	Thank you. Madam, I hope that we can all agree on this here, who are sitting here on the intercessions in the Chamber of Deputies, that such procedures are not acceptable, that the collection of any folders or compromising materials is just filth. That's not politics! This means that we should try not to do so, that we should take clear positions on this, that we should clearly define ourselves against this, and that is clearly what I have done today as Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u83	Thank you, Prime Minister. And I warn the Chamber of Deputies that it is now 16 o'clock, i.e. the time has passed when it is possible to submit the last oral question to the Prime Minister under the Rules of Procedure. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. Before I do, I'll read the note that came to me. Today from 17.15, for reasons of work, Minister Karla Šlechtová apologizes, as well as from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, including an extraordinary 30th meeting from 17.00 to the end, for health reasons Mr Vojtěch Adam apologises, as well as for the same reasons, he apologizes tomorrow from 12.00. And now I call on Mr Martin Kolovratník to give an interview to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mrs Marie Pěnčíková will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u84	Thank you. I won the lottery the second time in quotes today, that I was the first. Minister, I will try to be very brief. It is a question relating to the issue of refugees that we will be dealing with tonight, but this is only a partial problem related to transport and transport. Specifically, the North-French port of Calais - you know that it has been a problematic place for several years where immigrants from North Africa gather and try to hide in trucks to get across the Channel of La Manche to Great Britain. It is a long-term condition that was somehow on the edge, but according to the information I received personally from the association of carriers Česmad, so the Czech Republic has up to 300 drivers a day in place these days and the 300 drivers, Czech citizens, are really in danger of life. There are documented cases, and it has now been recorded in the media and on video, when our drivers encounter immigrants who are armed with sticks, iron rods and knives and are really brutally trying to get inside the trucks. According to information from Česmad, the problem is that this is happening in several places before entering the port and this is done thanks to the lax approach of the French security forces, whether it is traffic, police, customs or army. In short, the Francouz don't. Česmad also sent you a letter in this matter at the beginning of June, which you allegedly have not responded to yet. So I would like to ask you, on behalf of Czech carriers and Czech drivers, to take immediate steps to mitigate the situation, namely, this may be a diplomatic note towards the French side or some other step that you yourself will probably know better, which is better than I. So my questions are two. First of all, if you know about this situation, if you know about the fact that up to 300 Czech citizens are in danger of living there every day. And secondly, if you are willing to put yourself in this situation immediately, for example by diplomatic note, and if not, for what reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u85	Thank you. And now I'm going to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u86	Yes, thank you. Have a good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that we have been informed of this situation, that we have turned to the French authorities, we have turned to the prefecture of Calais, because we have dealt with it directly with the authorities in place, and we have, of course, also informed quite thoroughly about the situation. Today we also have information that we have received directly from the place and from the relevant French officials. The situation in Calais has long been tense. It is perhaps not easy or perhaps not easy for the French side to promise us that they are able to change it significantly, in a fundamentally short time. There's about 3,000 migrants in the Calais area. Of course, the French authorities are very well aware of how serious this is. Security authorities are responding to the situation, and it can be said that in the last few days, the state of security is still being strengthened. In recent days, French security forces have evacuated several camps in Calais, where illegal immigrants have just resided on their way to Great Britain. There is the fact that they are mainly heading to Great Britain. Several hundred people have been transferred to immigration centers. Unfortunately, this cannot be expected with regard to the numbers of migrants heading across the Mediterranean Sea, that even what they managed to transfer to immigration centres would have long remained empty. They fear that the evacuated spaces can quickly be filled with new arrivals again. So the problems in what is happening there - we have assurances from the French authorities and promises that they will do their best. I repeat, they're building up states, sending in other units and files, but they're unable to guarantee that they're able to return the situation to normal in a short time. So in addition to this communication with the French party, we try to notify everyone on our website who goes there, what the situation is there. We try to give information about what our drivers are waiting for, and note that contact with unknown persons is dangerous there, and we recommend that vehicles be secured so that no one can enter or hide in them. We also recommend driving through Calais on those pages without any stops, with a locked door. Let's say these are the recommendations that we can give. Please note and try to provide information. We will continue to discuss with the French side how these measures are progressing, because you are right that we have quite a large number of our drivers there. Unfortunately, Calais is not the only place today facing similar problems, and unfortunately France is not the only country facing similar problems today. The problem is much wider, and we'll probably be talking about it tonight. But I assure you that we are watching this, and we are watching the situation in Calais, we are informing and I will respond to those from whom I received letters, and I will tell them what we know about it and what we can do about it, and I will also give them the positions we have on the French side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u87	Thank you, Minister. I ask whether the Member wishes to ask an additional question. It's not like that. In that case, another winning, second in line, is Mrs Pěnčíková, who interpels the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, and Mrs Bebarová Rujbrová will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u88	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. Dear Minister, in the weekly newspaper Zemedelec No. 19 an article was published under the title There has been a break in professional ties. This article responds to the survey, whose respondents answered the question of whether they believe that the abolition of agriculture and rural agencies was the right step. Most of the respondents, all 71 percent, voted not and rather not. Many have doubts as to whether the employees of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund will be able to provide information and advice, which was particularly important for small farmers, but not only those, but also a number of other reasons. That is why I am asking you what financial savings the abolition of agencies has brought and from what. The State Agricultural Intervention Fund is set up as an accredited paying agency whose main tasks are the administration of payments and their follow-up. Who, then, will provide information and advice to farmers? On 13 May 2015, an amendment to the Government Order for Direct Payments was published No. 113/2015 Coll., which extends the submission of a single application until 29 May 2015. This was a rather significant step, and in your opinion, it is about giving farmers more time to prepare for it. According to some of the employees of SZIF, however, it would not have been possible in the earlier term. That's why I'm asking you if you're considering increasing the number of SZIF employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u89	I thank you, Madam, and I will ask Minister Marian Jurečka to answer you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u90	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues. So I have to say here about this question that if I could ever influence this matter in 2012, I wouldn't be disturbing the agriculture and rural agencies. However, at that time, the Government of 2012 on 2. 10. decided to abolish the agricultural and rural agencies and transform them into the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. I came to the Ministry at a stage when de facto there were only 12 directors who were directors of individual agencies, but more or less they were soldiers without troops. Those who remained as employees of the agricultural and rural agencies were with a 20% share, by which time they were already 80% part of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. If I were to reverse those steps, I could, of course, do it, but at substantial or quite large financial costs. So I decided to finally finish the transformation. It should be noted that more or less 90 percent of those people who, five or more years ago, were majority agencies' employees gradually transferred to the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, so they are practically the same and the same people who are practically capable of doing or doing the agenda for both SZIF and the Ministry. I myself know the situation in the district that these people have been working there for practically ten years, they know the farmers personally, and today they are all employees of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. Last year, when we were amending the Act on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, one of the adjustments was that the State Agricultural Intervention Fund should also provide advice following this end-of-the-year work by the agriculture and rural agencies. Of course, we are aware that now is a rather difficult time for SZIF workers. We're discussing the question with Mr. Director Šebestyán about how to possibly make these employees easier. I told him to think about whether he'd consider any more personnel reinforcements within the SZIF. So far, he doesn't see this option as necessary, because we're aware that now that he's gone and we can handle the 2015 agenda, in 2016 and in the years to come, the situation should be much better for the employees. Given the question you asked about the savings that have taken place, I confess, I am unable to express them, the savings, I am unable to quantify them, because more or less the overwhelming majority of the employees came fully under the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. And as far as I know, about eight employees were the ones who went somewhere else and didn't go to the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, so the savings are relatively small. However, I believe that we will also succeed, given that we have an agreement with the State Agricultural Intervention Fund as regards communication, whether from the Ministry in relation to farmers, but also vice versa, my people and I also go to meetings of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund as management and regional directors, or the directors of those areas, because they are done according to NUTS, so we have that flow of information back and forth. So I believe that this will work well in the long run. Now I really admit that it's now a few months since the period is quite hectic. It is due to the fact that there was a slip in the negotiations of the common agricultural policy, it is a slip in that the European Commission did not identify us with the Rural Development Programme until last month, so we were in a rather difficult situation. But I believe that it will stabilize and that it will work well so that those employees aren't under the pressure they've been under for the last two or three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u91	Thank you. I'll ask the lady - she's not interested. In that case, we will proceed to number 3, which is the interpellation of Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová to the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u92	Thank you. Unfortunately, my minister is not present. So, Minister, at the time of your predecessor, Minister Válková, there were significant personnel changes in the prison service. In addition to the appeal of CEO Petr Dohnal, there was subsequently no stone left on the stone in the entire prison service. I know it was your predecessor's steps. However, some of these steps also concern you. The Ministry of Justice is an appeal body for members of the prison service who disagreed with the decision of the Director-General. The time limit for the decision to revoke them under the Service Act shall be 90 days. I can state the case, for example, Colonel . Drsek, who had already filed this appeal on 9 November 2011 and despite the interest of the Ombudsman until now in his case has not been decided. It's not just about him. I would expect, and I assume that not only will I, the Ministry of Justice, be the Ministry that follows the law first. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u93	Thank you. The Minister will reply in writing. Another interviewer is Mr Radim Holeček, who will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u94	Hello. Dear Minister, if anything works, you need to start throwing sticks at it. Otherwise, I cannot explain the steps of your Ministry and the Czech Telecommunications Authority towards the transport services market, or I do not understand the arbitrary inclusion of other private entities that should pay for the loss of Czech Post. These newly included entities were repeatedly assured by your Ministry and ČTÚ that, as companies providing express and courier services, they are not covered by postal service providers and are not in danger of contributing to the postal compensation fund. In this situation, I see again efforts to bind private entities with other rules and, above all, to draw money out of them for often non-working and rampant state-owned enterprises. In this case, therefore, rather functioning, since the český Post trying to look loss-making is in fact a long-term profit, if I am not mistaken in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns. So the question is whether he needs such compensation at all. In addition, the European Commission has established that express and courier services are special services, which are characterised by a significant difference from postal services in general. This directive, which was to implement the current law, is intended to further liberalise the market, not bind it. From ČTÚ's behaviour and the MIT's behaviour, you may have decided to go the other way, unfortunately to the detriment of an environment that still works. Since the end of 2014, I consider it totally unacceptable for the ČTÚ to send individual express companies with a call for registration as a postal service provider, even though postal services are not clearly provided. ČTÚ must be aware that express carriers provide their services on the basis of a contract for the carriage of goods or mailing contracts, not a postal contract under the postal law. Moreover, the ČTÚ's arbitrary negotiations harm the Czech Republic with foreign investors, creating a repeatedly criticized unpredictable legal environment for local and foreign companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u95	Time, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u96	My question is, then, how is it possible that ČTÚ and your ministry deliberately oppose the relevant European directive and thus expose themselves to the risk of an action by the European Court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u97	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u98	Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members, first of all, I have to do some protection. I can talk about this problem in general, I cannot speak for the Czech Television, it is an independent regulatory authority that is not subject to me. So I will address the problem in general as a minister who falls under the legislative activity in this area, not the executive activity of the Czech Telecommunications Authority, which, as we know, is an independent office. To your question, I would like to say that this issue was the subject of negotiations between the Czech Association of International Express Carriers at the MIT on 5 June this year. On this occasion, the members of the association present, who mostly declare their services as transport services, were explained in detail the principles of current legislation concerning the functioning of the postal services market and its regulation. I quote, all of this is generated by the gradual liberalisation of the market, especially since 1 January 2013. This regulation is contained in the Postal Services Act and, unlike previous practice, when it was a free trade, postal operators must register with the Czech Telecommunications Authority. The authorisation for business in the field of provision of postal services arises by written notification of the business in this field of ČTÚ. The business notice itself does not represent any increase in the administrative burden compared to the registration of the trade office. The aim of this amendment was to obtain an overview of the postal services market, in particular from the perspective of the future need to impose an obligation to provide certain basic postal services, to ensure the quality of services and to protect customers. [[16.20 hours]] The registered postal operators are also potential payers of the so-called compensation fund under the conditions laid down in the Postal Services Act, through which net costs associated with the provision of basic postal services are to be reimbursed under the current legislation. It is this possibility, if you want a threat, that is the reason for which many service providers declare that they provide their services as forwarders, or as services under the contract of carriage, etc. In order to resolve these situations, a completely new institute was established in case of doubt as to the nature of the service in the Postal Services Act, on the basis of which the CTU conducts administrative proceedings on its own initiative or on request, resulting in an administrative decision on whether or not the entity provides postal services. According to publicly available information, the ČTÚ has already conducted and conducted several administrative procedures for determining the nature of the service provided, both on request and on its own initiative, between 2013 and 2015. In most cases, the court has confirmed that these are postal services and thus refuted the arguments of individual operators that their services are not postal services. However, there are also cases where, according to the definition of postal services contained in the Postal Services Act, it stated that postal services were not involved. At present, these contradictions have been transmitted to certain operators by judicial means, but according to the available information, the competent courts have not yet issued a decision. The current practice does not confirm the arguments of some operators about the incorrect or unclear definition of postal services in the Postal Services Act, respectively. on the wrong procedure of the Czech Television. This is confirmed, inter alia, by the fact that the European Commission has not initiated infringement proceedings with the Czech Republic due to the incorrect transposition of the so-called Third Postal Directive. It is clear that the assessment of postal services and their related services requires professional decision-making, which is ensured in the administrative proceedings of the Czech Technical Institute as an independent regulatory body for postal services, and the decision of the Czech Technical Institute is judicially reviewed. It is also confirmed that similar procedures with the aim of deliberately calling into question the nature of the services provided are also conducted in other EU Member States, such as the DHL case in Austria. Just yesterday, the first reading of the draft amendment to the Postal Services Act was held here in the Chamber of Deputies, the main content of which is the change in the method of financing the so-called net costs of the existing compensation fund, to which postal operators contribute to the reimbursement of these costs from the state budget. It is therefore realistic to assume that, by adopting this amendment, the reasons for individual operators to question the nature of their services will pass away. I would like to assure you that the MIT is, of course, prepared and declared that it will continue to monitor this issue and respond, for example, in the context of possible decisions of the EU Court of Justice in these cases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u99	Thank you, Minister. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u100	Only a short supplement - if you personally think that the ČTÚ behaves beyond its jurisdiction or if the law does not interpret a little at its discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u101	The Minister wishes to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u102	I would like to say, first of all, what I have said in such rounded words that, in principle, if the law that is to be passed tomorrow goes through, it will be irrelevant, because, unfortunately, liberalisation will be paid by taxpayers, because it is clear in theory - private entities will go to the monopoly market so far, we have liberalisation, but for the post office or any other entity to provide basic services, those who have the benefits of liberalisation have something to pay for it. That's a nice theory. Unfortunately, this works in Czech practice, and it is an experience not from the postal fund, but from the electronic communications fund, that there is an assessment of the contributions that should have been paid in 2005, 2006, 2007 etc. They just aren't really pickable. A solution is proposed that taxpayers pay for this, which is not entirely optimal, but probably the only possible solution in this area, and it will also mean that if it happens, all complaints of someone as they are registered will fall under the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u103	Thank you. That was Mr. Holeček's interpellation. The next interviewer will be Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u104	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, my intervention was originally to bear the name of Andrej Babiš's union, but they accidentally became Andrej Babiš's commitments. It doesn't really matter, though, because there's been a breach of obligations using compromising volumes. The pre-elections that promised that the current government would do politics in a completely different way. It turns out that doing something else doesn't mean doing it better. But that's not entirely relevant. I'll cut to the chase. The current case also raises doubts about compliance with the Data Protection Act. Yes, apart from the fact that this case sheds a very bad light on the way the laws of the present government arise, their content is evidently determined by who knows what to do with whom. It also opens up the question of whether, as Vice-President of the Government, you can afford to ignore the provisions of the Data Protection Act which lay down strict conditions for the collection of sensitive personal data. This illegal gathering is very likely to have taken place in the case which concerns Mr Šincl. It leads me to a lot of questions. Minister, do you realize that there are still laws in this country, including the laws on the protection of personal data? I would also like to ask who advised you to do such an unorthodox procedure, who you inspired, who collected the data about colleague Šincl. Department of Finance or any other person? Are similar volumes also led to other colleagues and colleagues? How many times have you used these volumes? And if Mr Šincl's information is to be true, I wonder why you did not turn to the law enforcement authorities, but only used their knowledge when you and Mr Šincl had a political dispute. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u105	Thank you. The Minister will reply in writing. Another interviewer is Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will interpel the Minister of Health on stem cell treatment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u106	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister, the subcommittee on the economy in health, health insurance and pharmaceutical policy held a seminar on the treatment of stem cells on 11 November 2014. Specifically, this included three diagnoses - treatment of ischemic disease of the lower limb, further treatment of ALS as well as treatment of knee and hip joints by injection of stem cells into the joints. In order to assess whether the type of treatment is legal to be provided, it is necessary to decide according to legal rules that are different for different types of treatment interventions, whether it is a new method or a medicine, or a medical device. Unfortunately, to this day, although we have adopted the resolution where we asked for the Ministry of Health and the State Institute for Drug Control, we did not receive the answers to our resolution, which we requested at the time. The Sub-Committee asks the Ministry of Health and the State Institute for Drug Control to state the rules governing the treatment and treatment of stem cells, whether under the Act on Medicines, whether under the Act on Specific Health Services or under the Act on Human Tissues and Cells. At the same time, we ask the Ministry of Health, in accordance with the legal regulations and principles of evidence-based medicine, to issue an opinion which types of treatment with stem cells can currently be considered as scientifically recognised, which are only at the clinical trial stage and which are a procedure that is not lege artis; to assess the admissibility of offering individual types of treatment with stem cells to patients for money, for direct reimbursement by the patient and to give a methodological instruction to interpret the law in order to punish illegal practices. [[Time warning]] I ask you, Minister, to give us a clear answer to these questions and to this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u107	Thank you. Another interviewer will be Mr Miroslav Kalousek, who will interpel the Minister of Finance on the issue of press 417. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister Babiš, when the House discussed press 417, several amendments were tabled, including the amendment of your own political movement member Karel Rais, who proposed to terminate immediately the tax support for clean biofuels. You declared a few weeks earlier that you would be willing to support this proposal by your own Member so that you would vote differently in violation of this public promise, and when you were asked at the press conference for a reason against this behaviour, you said that you had a neutral position from your ministry and therefore you had to abstain. I will now look away from the situation that the neutral position does not oblige the petitioner to abstain, he can vote both in favour and against, both publicly correctly, but the members of the Committee on Budgets know that this position was not neutral, that it was in agreement that your office proposed to support Mr Karel Rais's proposal. And you lied to the House and lied to the public when you defended the fact that you voted in favour of your private company at the expense of public budgets. I think that both the public and the Chamber of Deputies deserve your answer as to why you lied in such an unprecedented way. I would like to ask for this information regardless of the fact that, of course, I am at risk of being sprinkled with a malignant herbicide. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u109	Thank you. The next interviewer will be Mr Jan Zahradník, who will interpel the Minister of Finance on the intention of abolishing the Vodňany Financial Office. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing Mr Andrea Babiš, with this interview, to the absent finance minister. My interpelation is based on the initiative I received from the mayor of Vodňany and from the mayors of municipalities around this beautiful South Bohemia city, who are concerned that there is an intention of the Czech Financial Administration to abolish the territorial workplace in Vodňany. This department falls under the Financial Office for the South Bohemia Region and is directly controlled by the Director of the Territorial Workplace in Strakonice. I have information that the operation of tax entities in Vodňany is not significantly lower than that of tax entities in Strakonice or another neighbouring town of Blatné. Many of the citizens of the water region have no choice but to make a personal visit to the workplace to deal with their tax matters. So, Mr President, by your means, I ask the Minister whether this concern is true, whether this intention is true and, if so, what are the reasons for this intention. And also whether the intention is in line with the declared intention of the Minister to improve tax collection in the Czech Republic. And since I now know that I will not get answers from the Minister, I would still ask an additional question, or perhaps rather than a question of such supplementary information for the Minister. Disagree with the intention to abolish the territorial workplace in Vodňany, the city council of Vodňany - I will finish - and its resolution, Vodňany, supported 16 municipalities in Vodňany, as well as the voluntary union of the municipalities of Blanicko-otava microregion. [[Time, colleague!]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u111	Thank you. The Minister will reply within the legal deadline, and the next interviewer will be Mrs Olga Havlová, who will interpel Mr Chovanec on the issue of immigrant quotas. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank all the ministers who do not despise this House and are present here. Since we have an emergency meeting tonight on this whole issue that I wanted to ask, I will ask the Minister for an emergency meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u113	Thank you. The next interviewer will be Mr. Jiří Valenta, who will interpel the present Minister of Industry and Trade. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u114	vážený Minister, there has been information in the media that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has failed to comply with some conclusions agreed jointly in negotiations with representatives of the Ministry of Interior on the project for the development of new generation networks. Not only as a member of the Chamber of Deputies, but in particular as the chair of the Parliament's subcommittee on ICT and eGovernment, I would like to ask you about the content of what should be and should therefore be incorporated in the national strategy for the development of new generation networks and the operational programme ORPIK-PO4. I also ask you about other reasons for this strongly mediated dispute initiated allegedly by the letter of the Minister of Interior of Chovanec of 8 June, where he accuses you that your officials were unable to make substantial comments on the plan since October last year. This outlined, let's say, opinion discrepancy between ministries can generate not only an increase in the security risks of the state in the future, but also another threat to the economic growth of the Czech Republic. Is it also true in this regard that you should promptly transfer the internal competence to build and operate a register of passive infrastructure and also to the Ministry of the Interior to transfer responsibility for the national plan for developing new generation networks? I would also like to make a comment on these alleged measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u115	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u116	Mr President, Member, honourable Members, thank you for this question. I would like to respond to the development of high-speed Internet. High-speed Internet is one of the top priorities of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It is a matter to which 14 billion are allocated in European funds for the next seven years. CZK, and the sub-programme that will deal with this will be launched at the end of this year. As you know, the Ministry of Industry and Trade launched the first acceptance of the challenges for the next period. The challenges were announced on 29 May and the reception began on 1 June. On this particular point, this challenge is likely to be announced in the autumn. As for the debates with the Ministry of the Interior, there is a debate on what role the Czech Post could play in this matter, virtually. its off-road IT race. We do not rule out this possibility, so we have taken some steps so that even a state enterprise, which is likely to emerge from a branching plant, can get to those funds. As far as the national plan for the development of new generation networks is concerned, this is what I believe I sent to the inter-ministerial commentary procedure yesterday, and there will be a debate between all departments and other commentary points, and also, of course, with the professional public, how they will stand up to this plan. I mentioned the role of the state, which was the first issue in the planning and preparation of the conditions of the competition. The second requirement was to allow the drawing of subsidies from ORPIK and the state undertaking responsible for preparing, planning and subsequent management of new generation networks. This requirement is redundant as public support is not excluded from our plan by state-owned enterprises implementing projects in the area. However, it must meet the requirements of other applicants for grants and must submit the best project. [[16.40 hours]] The third topic was the requirement for exclusive priority of optical technology. The MIT believes that, despite its undeniable quality, such a step is not possible because it would violate the legislative principle of technological neutrality. The MIT is based on a European and national strategy. The last requirement was to transfer the administration of newly established networks exclusively to the administration of a state enterprise entrusted with planning, construction and management of new generation networks. For the reasons set out above, we have rejected this requirement because it is contrary to European strategies. Today, I have agreed with the Minister that we will send our deputy officials to Brussels to discuss with European officials the extent to which changes to the existing plan for drawing European funds are possible, where it is all quite clearly defined by European documents. I would like to say that public aid in the field of high-speed Internet is very desirable because it should help disadvantaged areas. On the other hand, there is another condition for the European Union that existing investments should not be thwarted. In our case, it is probably primarily called. Wi-Fi companies that run some Internet that doesn't always meet the criteria that are required from high-speed internet. [[Attention on time.]] I think that's the main thing I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u117	Thank you. I will ask the Member if he wants to apply the supplementary question. If so, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u118	Thank you, Minister. In that regard, I understand. So you're confirming that all the discrepancies that have arisen between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Industry and Trade are averted? But you haven't answered your opinion yet, or if you've already handed over your powers to build and operate a register of passive infrastructure to the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u119	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u120	Thank you for asking. I don't know if all the tension is contained. But today, I made a deal with the Home Secretary to deal with them. And the other, the handover of competences. I can't do that even if I wanted to, because it's the law of competence that makes it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u121	Thank you, Minister. That's the end of the tenth interpellation. The eleventh is the interpelling of Mr Zahradníček to the Minister of Transport on road reconstruction and motorways. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u122	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Dear Minister of Transport, I am addressing you with this interview with a request for redress on the implementation of parallel construction works on motorways and roads which are in their immediate neighbourhood. I know the roads need repairs, but everything with a certain degree. It is widely known that in the event of accidents involving trucks or passenger cars, traffic is blocked for several long hours, and when it is an accident in a reconstructed section of the motorway, it is even worse. The operation is seduced, whether controlled or not, into a marked or unmarked mobile route, this is the communication of all possible species and classes. I therefore ask you, Mr. Transport Minister, whether you are considering coordinating the works carried out with the Road and Motorway Directorate, the Road Maintenance Administration, the Police of the Czech Republic, the relevant transport reports of regional authorities and, where appropriate, other organisations to avoid simultaneous construction work on motorways and neighbouring roads. Or do you agree with the situation that is repeated in the Highlands, for example, and drivers either wait long hours for the motorways to be transitable again, and nervously watch how two or three workers work on the parallel communication of the first or second class, or slowly travel along unmarked lanes of third-class roads on which there are other closures, or is traffic controlled by light signals? Of course, this will give the drivers tens of miles. I would be very grateful, and I think the other drivers, too, for making certain corrections. Believe that there is nothing worse than in the steam summer during vacations in a car or in a bus full of children waiting long hours to re-entry a given section of the highway or road. If we add to this ongoing reconstruction on railway lines, traveling on vacation will certainly be interesting and full of adventurous experiences. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you for your answer and thank the others for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u123	Thank you. I ask the Minister if he wants to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u124	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to answer. Of course, this is certainly a difficult situation, on the other hand, I think our responsibility is, not as the media sometimes says, to spend money at the last minute, but we simply have some obligation to take care of the roads, the highways that we have in our administration, both we and the regions, and they need to be renovated. The problem of solving closures during the continuance of state and individual regions is not entirely simple. The drawing of funds from individual budgets is limited in time and the course of procurement procedures due to its complexity cannot be accurately foreseen. This is why the events of the regions, municipalities and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways can coincide, even though this was not originally intended. Detention of a single procurement procedure may lead to a mix of actions. Further extension of the deadline for the start of work is often not real, as the repair could not be completed during the construction season. Deferral to the next year is not possible due to the possibilities of financing current running programmes. This year, there is a significant investment in road maintenance repairs, not only in state property. Such investments result in long-term sub-financing of transport infrastructure. However, from the point of view of repairing the motorway network, it is a volume of work that should be repeated every year, as approximately 5% of the motorway network is corrected, corresponding to a period of 20 years of repair of each individual section. I would like to point out here that, in addition, we are investing about five percent less in these motorway repairs today than we did last year. What, of course, is a complication that there is currently also a modernization of the motorway. I would like to make sure that our goal is that the highway is to pass at least two lanes on each side throughout the repair period except for the short sections where the marking changes. We think that if we drive the way we're doing, with the 80's in those narrowings, the chances that there's gonna be an accident should be smaller, and hopefully there won't be complications. Of course, we can't prevent them. I'd like to say here that this is one of the drawbacks of the concept at all. We don't have a regular route for all sections today. We're trying to deal with the county. Today, the coordination of the work on the motorway towards the regions is at the Ministry, but the repairs of the first-class roads to the repairs of the regions are on the verge. The Road and Motorway Directorate cooperates very intensively with regional administrations. That means the coordination is happening. From what I've read, there's a problem that when there's a slip, of course, we're having a very hard time discussing what to let go of. We have recently decided to communicate very intensively with the drivers. We started by telling them today where the shutters start, they're out. We have an agreement with the Czech Radio on regular information. We are also discussing other agreements with Impulse and other national radios dealing with transport issues. [[16.50 hours]] It is precisely so that they do not have problems during holiday travel, we strongly urge and recommend that they do so especially in those places where they do not often go to look, they do such screening of what situation looks like, which places to avoid, and how to reschedule the holiday route so as to avoid the worst places. I am convinced that the situation will not be that bad, but I think that the warning is needed, and we will continue it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u125	Thank you. The Member wishes to exercise his right to an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u126	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hope this will contribute to better driver awareness. But I would ask you to say in a few words what the situation with the construction of the motorway from Olomouc to Hradec Králové looks like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u127	Yes. Please, Minister, you have room for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u128	That's today's expressway, to the future of the D35 motorway. We are preparing intensively to prepare this expressway for the future of the highway. Next year we should start two more sections, this is Opatovice - Times - Island. Today we are intensively debating with the Road and Motorway Directorate of the Pardubice Region about the preparation of the Myth bypass, where the situation is serious so as not to make it worse. We are also debating with the Pardubice Region how to finance the feeders to this highway, because once we build it, there will be a second problem, how to distribute the transport we get there across the region. At every convention, we would like to ensure that first - class roads always follow there. On some sections we will not succeed and we are debating with the Pardubice Region how to help finance these trailer routes as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u129	Thank you. The next interview will be from Mrs Dana Váhalová to Minister Milan Chovanec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u130	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, fellow ministers, according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees last year, the number of refugees in the world has risen at a record 60 million. In Europe, the number of new migrants has increased by half. Every 122th person on the planet is a runner or asylumant. At the end of last year, 59,5 million people were on the run from home before fighting or persecution, an increase of 8.3 million against the previous year. On average, the number of refugees increased by 42,500 each day. In 2013, the daily average was 32,000. In Europe, the number of migrants has increased by 50 per cent to 6,7 million. According to Eurostat, 695 435 asylum applications were submitted in the European Union 12 months before the end of this March. Most in Germany, 247 635, and Sweden, 81 420. Last year, the Czech Republic recorded 1 145 applications for asylum. The mass increase in refugees lacking their identification, other cultural environments, insufficient or no education, health status, disapproval of citizens of European countries can not only cause major economic and social problems in Europe, but ultimately can lead the beneficiary countries to similar conflicts that refugees fled from their own countries. So I want to ask - are we able to find partners within Europe to reject quotas? Are we ready and able to accept other refugees in the event of the introduction of quotas? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u131	Thank you. The Minister is not present, so we will continue, or we should continue by interpelling Mr Rykala, who is withdrawing his intervention. This means that the next one will be Mr Petr Bendl, who will interpel the Minister of Agriculture. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u132	Dear absent Minister of Agriculture, on TV screens We see you more often by the Ministry of Agriculture paid advertising than at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, because your notoriety at the House meeting is quite well known to everyone, and even to the bills that you should defend here, Minister. But in the discussion of the Biofuel Act, when you defended it, it became clear that you were neither involved in the discussions of the agriculture ministers of the European Union countries, or that you are very few. I wanted to ask you how many Councils of Ministers went on, how many meetings you were supposed to be in, and how many meetings you weren't in during your term of office. And if you weren't there, for what reason did you not participate in the discussions of the masters of agriculture in the European Union? Because everyone knows that the interests of Czech farmers are to be defended there in particular. These are tens of billions of crowns coming from the European Union to the Czech Republic, their direction and their amount are discussed primarily there. While you are not attending the Chamber of Deputies, which I do not understand, I do not understand what is preventing you from attending the European Union's agriculture ministers' meetings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u133	Thank you. The Minister wishes to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bendle, through Mr President, I was on 7 in 2014 from the 12 Councils of EU Agriculture Ministers, and I must say that the year before you and Minister Toman were Minister, 50 per cent was participation in the Councils of EU Agriculture Ministers. I had 60 percent in 2014 at the councils. This year, I was from 6 Councils of Ministers to 4 of them. [[Mr Bendl's screams.]] It's official information published by the Office of the Government, so you can verify it. I'm telling you how the numbers are based on government statistics. I have said the exact numbers of all the council meetings, including informal advice, have not been involved, and here you are operating information on how crucial it is now to defend the interests of the Czech Republic in Brussels in negotiating the common agricultural policy. Mr Bendle, through Mr President, those key negotiations took place until mid-2013. There was the closure of the common agricultural policy, at the last Council of 24 and 25 June 2013, the most crucial meeting was when the whole issue was closed, and you were not at the Council. You didn't go there, you were hiding it, you didn't go there, and until today I hear from my colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture that there was a key lack of the participation of the Minister of Agriculture for the Czech Republic. It would be good to see how you yourself have approached these matters. I'm taking advice where there's an important agenda. And if the board deals with fisheries issues, I apologize, and I prefer to take part in such advice, for example, in government negotiations, because on Monday there are government meetings and, at the same time, EU Agriculture Ministers' Councils. So about that much. I defend our interests when the Council, which is important, for example, this week's advice on organic farming, is present at those councils. I'm the one who's not afraid to raise a voice other than most. I communicate with my colleagues, with the Minister of Agriculture of Austria and Germany, and with Slovakia. We communicate with each other on an informal basis. So I think that I am trying to defend these interests quite strongly, for example in the field of organic farming, we have pushed through a lot of exceptions that we have come up with as the Czech Republic. And again, maybe you should explain why you weren't at the Council on 24 and 25 June 2013, which was absolutely crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u135	Thank you. Mr Bendl wants to raise an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u136	Minister, that's ridiculous what you're saying here. You know very well that I was on all councils except one when the Police of the Czech Republic intervened at the Office of the Government. Not then. That's right. But that was one piece of advice. I've always been on everyone else. There's no need to name who's calling who. But you just don't go there. You're supposed to be sitting there, and you're supposed to be there the same way you're not here. You don't even come here to discuss laws, Mr. Secretary. Not even here! So what kind of game is this? Fifty per cent was not when you know that Minister Toman did not ride at the agricultural ministers' meeting in the time of the transitional government's existence. And you mix it up. You simply do not defend the interests of Czech farmers. You're just getting drunk with it. You're only able to pay for the advertisement on Czech Television or others for the Ministry of Agriculture's money. That's what we see. But to answer here - What prevents you from attending the Council of Ministers for Agriculture of the European Union? [[Time. Time, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u137	Thank you. Minister, if he's interested. Yes, he's interested. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u138	I'm gonna go back to the material debate. I, on all the essential councils of ministers, where important points are for the Czech Republic, so I am present. If you have a conflict with this, show me some advice on where the topic was important for the Czech Republic, where I wasn't. I really sit for eight hours and listen to discussions about fishing quotas or sitting at government meetings, so I simply prefer the Czech Government's negotiations. So I'm just wondering why you weren't present on the 24th, 25th? You did any assists on the raid at the government office? As in what prevented you from going to the EU Agriculture Council, even though there was a raid at the Office of the Government? I don't understand. I didn't get that argument from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u139	The Member will not answer you because he has exhausted all his options. [[Minister Jurečka: I know.]] Another interviewer will be Mr Radim Fiala, who will interpel the Minister of Interior on the security of the Czech Republic in the European Union. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u140	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Unfortunately, the Minister of the Interior is not here, but I consider this interpelation to be very important and I wish he knew about it. And if he doesn't answer her in writing, I will, of course, intersect next time on this matter. Minister, I would also like to ask you a few questions about the security of the Czech Republic in the European Union. Today, I think it is the worst time that we are experiencing in the European Union because it tells us: Give up freedom, accept regulation, become the administrative unit of the European superstate! And we don't want that. You have just attended a meeting of the ministers of the European Union's interior. You were talking about immigrants. And I wonder what is Brusel' position on this. Is the so-called head of mind really going to push us to accept these immigrants that we do not want here and whose acceptance will lead to the inevitable consequences of how economic, social? And I think it will also affect very significantly the security risk of citizens of the Czech Republic. I wonder what steps you will propose to make Czech citizens feel safe. And if you're even going to suggest any steps to keep those immigrants from being taken. I wonder what side you'll be leaning on. If you lean towards letting citizens decide that if the European Union decides how it decides, we will write a referendum on staying in the European Union. Or do you prefer to take the side of the MEPs for social democracy who vote for these quotas? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u141	Thank you. The next will be Mrs Chalánková, who will interpel the Minister of Foreign Affairs on child education in Norway. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u142	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in a situation where the MPSV informs on its website about its direct cooperation with the Norwegian Social Office of Bufdir, which is the management article of the Barnevernu project CZ04, I will return to the case of Denis and David Michalákův, albeit indirectly this time. One of the many repeated claims is that Eva Michaláková has decided to live voluntarily in Norway and therefore has to adapt to the local society and to the relevant cultural differences. The last time she used this argument, Minister Marksová replied to my interpellation. I quote: "Mrs Michaláková has voluntarily decided to live in Norway and under the conditions there, taking responsibility for reflecting the conditions of Norwegian law and other sociocultural circumstances." I fully agree that everyone should adapt to the conditions prevailing in the country in which he decided to live. On the other hand, until I got acquainted with these and other cases, I would never have thought of Norway as a country in a culture other than the Czech Republic as a country where there would be any risk to parents. Today, it turns out that the boundaries for taking children are set very low, children are taken for petty reasons, and there is no emphasis on helping endangered families that there is no problem for Nor to separate siblings and Norwegian law does not guarantee the right of grandparents to contact their grandchildren and that Norwegian child care contains many unsuspected, for Central Europeans to absurd elements. As I learned from the Norwegian Ambassador, this regime concerns all foreigners, i.e. tourists with children. I tried to find some recommendations on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Czech parents in Norway, which rules are to be followed to avoid conflicting with Norwegian culture, with Norwegian society. Unfortunately, in vain. My question is whether the Ministry is preparing recommendations for Czech citizens abroad in this regard, how Czech citizens in Norway should behave in order not to risk destroying their families in the interests of Norwegian views on the welfare of children. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u143	Thank you. The Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u144	Thank you. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore not known to me that the Norwegian Ambassador in the Czech Republic would say that there would be a risk of children being taken from tourists travelling to Norway. In general, I think that Norway cannot be described as a risky country for travelling with children. We have experience with one family that has been taken away from children in Norway, and this family has long been in Norway. The case simply falls under Norwegian jurisdiction. If I could, here I will give information about the negotiations that took place yesterday with the Norwegian authorities and where we were dealing with the work of the Norwegian authorities in connection with this case and we were interested in the extent to which what was promised to us is being fulfilled on the Norwegian side. I am thinking of working with the biological family, evaluating or supporting children due to their cultural language background and so on. So we have some fresh information about the negotiations that just took place in this case. And so it's a separate thing. However, we do not see any cases of Czech tourists who experience problems when travelling to Norway with their children, and therefore we will probably not issue warnings or recommendations about traveling to Norway with children. According to the Norwegian statistics recorded in Norway as at 1. 1. 2015 was a total of 2,355 citizens of the Czech Republic. Of course, Czech citizens are increasingly going abroad. I would like to draw attention here to the Ministry's website, where we try in chapters We travel under other links to provide information about child care, about the protection of their rights abroad. So this type of information is part of what we generally provide. But this serves for such a general orientation for those travelling abroad. Some cultural and social differences are also highlighted there. Of course, this information does not go into detail, and it is quite general. This means, from this one case that we are dealing with and which is not quite easy for us, so we cannot conclude that we would issue a general recommendation for those travelling to Norway with children, that it would be a particular risk. I don't think that one case gives us the right to make such a claim and to make such a statement on our website.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u145	Thank you. The honourable Member obviously wants to apply his supplementary question. Before I give her my word, I will apologise to Mr Turek from 18 o'clock for family reasons, then I will apologise to Mr Kořenko from 16.45 for health reasons, then I will apologize to Mr Zavadil from 16.15 for work reasons. Then I'll apologize to Secretary Valachová since the oral questioning. And I will apologize to Mr Kaňkovský from 18:00 to the end of the day. The Member has the floor on an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u146	I only have very briefly, because I have information about many cases in many countries about children taken away, but this does not apply to this interpelation today. I would like to point out that Michalákův, both Denis and David and Eva Michaláková are citizens of the Czech Republic, even though they reside in Norway. They want to submit to the Czech jurisdiction, yet they effectively defend it in this Norwegian state. And it also prevents them from the various responsibilities of children such as schoolchildren. That'll be part of another interpellation I have prepared. So I'm sorry the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doesn't issue such warnings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u147	The Minister wants to respond? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u148	Yes, I agree with what was said here. Here, the children of Mrs Michaláková are citizens of the Czech Republic, so we are looking for all the methods, ways to help them, because I understand this as a service that we are obliged to Czech citizens abroad. However, I think that on the basis of this case, however complicated it is, difficult for us and in Czech-Norwegian relations I think rather unpleasant, so I do not think it would be possible to issue a general warning on this basis that there is a risk for tourists to take children from Norway. I just don't think we have enough evidence to conclude that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u149	Thank you, Minister. The next interview will be from Mrs Radka Maxová, who will interpel the present Minister Jiří Dienstbier. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am surprised by the current great activity of two resorts, both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and yours, Minister, regarding the failure to give consent to the housing supplement in some cities in the Czech Republic. Today, according to the media, the Legislative Council of the Government was to meet and address the constitutionality or unconstitution of the amendment of the law that we approved last year. I would therefore like to know why you have not dealt with this problem before. And if you've dealt with it, with what result. Because the possible problems have been announced before. And if the Legislative Council of the Government has reached any conclusion, if you'd like to introduce us to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u151	Thank you. The Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the question of Mrs Maxová, I must point out that the problems that could have been and are linked to the amendment, namely the amendment by Mr Stanjura, which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies, I have already drawn attention to these problems when discussing this amendment on the floor of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, these problems are confirmed. On the one hand, there is the logical interest of municipalities that want to have some real tool to address the issue of social exclusion, poverty and all the negative phenomena associated with it. On the other hand, this legislation is very unfortunate. My office is mainly concerned with this because the Agency for Social Inclusion falls within my remit, which, as it follows from the title, deals with this topic rather intensively. The agency has carried out an analysis which shows that, based on fresh experience with the practice of municipalities, there is a risk of loss of housing and homelessness to up to 17 000 inhabitants of the Czech Republic. This has been assessed as a very serious situation and, on this basis, we, as well as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and already 14 days ago also the Advisory Board of the Minister of the Interior for the Administrative Rules, which also took a position on this matter. And so today, the Legislative Council of the Government. It is quite clear from this discussion that the legislation on this point is very unthinkable. In principle, almost unapplicable so as not to violate human rights and constitutional order, in particular the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The problem is that Article 30 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms guarantees everyone assistance in material distress. This aid can, of course, be relied on only within the limits of the law, however the cited or the provision in question, § 33 para. 6 The law on aid in material distress does not set any limits, only binds the payment of a benefit in material distress to the approval of the municipality. And, of course, if, without any limits, any parameters, guidelines for the municipality, how it should move in its considerations, whether it will also consider in a non-discriminatory way whether or not to give consent, this essentially does not result in the fulfilment of the law within legal limits, but in the withdrawal of constitutionally guaranteed law. According to the conclusions of the Advisory Council on the Administrative Rules, which I mentioned here, he concluded that the approval of the municipality cannot even be considered a binding position and therefore that the labour authorities do not necessarily take such an opinion into account. Because there are no limits here, on this basis, in fact, these opinions, as the practice shows, are not justified in any way, they are often territorial, in some cases even municipalities even refuse to make decisions on this matter at all. There is therefore no basis for the subsequent decision of the Labour Office, which decides in administrative proceedings, unlike the municipality, which, on the basis of this unthought-out amendment, decides in separate scope. This is, of course, an interpretation which is slightly contrary to the language interpretation or the wording of the provisions of Section 33 (1). 6 the law on aid in material distress, but it is probably the only possible constitutionally conformal interpretation. But it's not clear. In the event that the opinion of the municipality is considered binding, as the explicit wording could be drawn from it, there is no doubt in that case, and the conclusions of the Legislative Council of the Government are also in line with this, that there is really serious doubt about constitutionality. I say for myself that there is an obvious insurrection in this case. At the same time, the Government's Legislative Council took the view that making state administration, i.e. the decision-making of the Labour Office, a vague adjustment to the decision-making activity of the municipality without any constraints, is, of course, a non-systemic and non-conceptual provision. At the same time, the Legislative Council clearly recommended to the Government that it take the necessary steps without delay to amend legislation so as to guarantee the legal certainty of the addressees of this legislation, namely those who are entitled to assistance in material distress under the Charter. In conclusion, given the only possible literal interpretation, the legislation would undoubtedly be unconstitutional, and this needs to be dealt with very quickly. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u153	Thank you. Is the lady interested in asking a question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u154	Thank you. So I want to ask why these documents for some boundaries for municipalities have not been established from January to May 1st, I want to know. What kind of resort did he neglect? Whether the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of the Interior, or yours. And I'd be happy to keep that right to those communities. So I want to ask you why you only address it to the recipients and not to the municipalities. Because I personally have the experience of sitting at the desk of the employment office and I was present at the time when migrant fellow citizens from the city went into town and asked for a housing supplement. And I think that the community should have some kind of right to influence whether it wants a person there who will benefit the community, but doesn't want a person who just migrates there. He doesn't even have a family there, a permanent residence, a job, nothing. So I want to know why these documents have not been established, which Ministry seems to have doubted and whether you are considering legislative change towards the municipalities on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u155	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u156	Given the serious constitutional doubts that I have defined them here, it is absolutely necessary to move towards a change in legislation. My office has come to this, as I have also said, on the basis of the work of the Agency for Social Inclusion in the field, which, of course, did not come across this issue until the application of the relevant standard. However, as I said, I myself pointed out when approving this standard on Parliament's soil and then on various other occasions. However, the experience of how the municipality will proceed with this, given that this is an effective provision only from 1 May this year, is very fresh, i.e. the reaction that my office has on this matter is, in my opinion, quite prompt. However, the situation is very serious and needs to be addressed. I, of course, also communicate with other members of the government on this matter, especially the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is the gesture of this legislation, and it is quite obvious that the government must prepare a novel very quickly to remove this unacceptable state. I also mentioned that I perceive the quite legitimate need of municipalities to have an effective solution to the situation, but it cannot be such a condition of assistance in material distress, which is constitutionally guaranteed by law. It is, of course, possible to consider the approval of the municipality with the establishment of a hostel, which is more a question of construction legislation than of the bill. Of course, it is also possible to put a time cap on the payout of the housing supplement. hostels with the need to realise that there are currently between 70 and 100 thousand inhabitants of the Czech Republic living in hostels, although of course this is an undesirable condition, because permanent housing should be carried out mainly in apartments and not in inferior forms of accommodation. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] There is a very urgent need for legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u157	Thank you. Is the Member interested? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u158	You haven't answered my question, Minister. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So, please, one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u159	Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u160	We're probably rewinding for the second time. I have answered you in a rather exhausting way to the extent that falls within my purview. First, an analysis of the agency, which shows the relatively serious gravity of the situation, and then, of course, as President of the Legislative Council of the Government, I decided on the actual inclusion of the case at today's meeting of the Legislative Council of the Government, which gives an opinion on this. This opinion may be the basis for the negotiations of other ministries, in particular the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is a gesture of legislation, and therefore this ministry must come up with legislation. It probably shouldn't be my office or any other ministry, but a ministry that's gestured.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u161	Yes, thank you. The next question is Mr. Plíšek to the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u162	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Justice, I originally wanted to ask you about the very specific legislative intentions of your ministry, which you proposed when taking up your duties and for which you are also responsible as the former First Deputy Minister of Justice. However, since you are not present today at the Chamber of Deputies meeting and you are excused, I would like to ask you for an up-to-date report on the fulfilment of your Ministry's legislative commitments for 2015 with the fact that I will ask you a very specific question during the next interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u163	Thank you. Another is Mr Simeon Karamazov for the Minister of Culture on the management of the National Gallery. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u164	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, according to the report of the Czech Press Office of 26 April 2015, the Ministry of Culture auction the image of Josef Šíma for the National Gallery in Prague, whose total price is CZK 5.3 million. From the letter addressed by Pavel Hlubuček, Director General of the National Gallery to Jiří Faita and the representative of the auction organizer Vladimír Lekeš, it is clear that the Ministry of Culture did not participate in the auction and did not provide financial cover for the purchase of the painting. The question arises as to who actually auction the image of Josef Šíma. It should be noted that the Czech Republic has so far approached the purchase of cultural value items in public auctions almost exclusively in the case of extremely important bohemians purchased on foreign markets. It always concerned only works that could not be obtained in any other way. Otherwise, state contribution organisations have always acted in the standard manner and in accordance with the legislation in order to acquire collection items, except in the case of exceptions. Moreover, the National Gallery in Prague does not have any funds for acquisitions in the approved budget for 2015. It therefore raises a number of questions throughout this purchase. Since this is a relatively high amount when purchasing a collection item, I ask you to answer the following questions. Was the proposal to buy a picture of Josef Šíma discussed in the National Gallery Advisory Board in Prague for collection activities? Who authorized the Director General of the National Gallery to represent the state at a public auction? Who decided to mobilise funds from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Culture for this purpose? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u165	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, the issue of purchasing collection items of the National Gallery is governed by applicable laws, namely Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, which lays down procedures and rules for the acquisition of property, including auction. The Director-General of the National Gallery is authorised to participate in the auctions but must comply with the conditions laid down by law. In the event of a bribely acquisition of assets, the price can only be negotiated up to an amount equal to the valuation of the property under special legislation, in the public interest the Ministry of Finance may give prior consent to a higher price, this applies mutatis mutandis if the property is acquired at the auction. Thus, the contribution organization, which the National Gallery is, must, through its founder, i.e. the Ministry of Culture, ask the Ministry of Finance for prior written consent to the establishment of the maximum price to which it can auction. Whether the auction in question was contrary to legislation, in particular the rules on the management of state property, the Ministry will examine. Since no funds have been released from the Ministry, the Ministry of Culture has not yet been active in this matter, but, as I say, it is not only investigating this auction but also other auctions because it must comply with all the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u167	Thank you, Minister. If there is no interest in further performances, we will proceed to the 20th interpellation, which is the interpellation of Mr Ondráček to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, in my opinion, in particular, the public media do not perform their duties and do not inform, or do not objectively inform, about the current situation in Ukraine. And we do not have to distinguish whether it is the southeast of the country torn by civil war, where local struggles do not cease, or are on the daily order and are becoming more frequent, or the western or central part of Ukraine, where the population is rebelling against President Porošenko and Jacenjukův's government, which is impoverishing its country for a few dollars, sells it out for false glory and starves its own population. [[17.30 hours]] During the oral interview at the last meeting, Minister, you were unable to provide me with up-to-date information about the events in Ukraine and you had to give them to me in writing, and I cannot agree with your reply because I think it is not objective. Now that I'm on 8. 6. Learned and read that you stated during a visit to the Gaza Strip - quote: "Of course, I was shocked by the extent of the damage and the number of homes destroyed. But what is most frightening for me is hearing the numbers of children suffering from all kinds of post-traumatic shocks, and children who have lost their parents and seen horrible things." End of quote. I see that your own experience is untransferable. Therefore, Minister, I ask you: When, in the interests of objectivity and the creation of objective foreign policy, will you find courage and go to the southeast of Ukraine to see for yourself the consequences of the war on the local population, women, children and old men, which you have blindly supported by the Ukrainian government with the fascist right-wing sector against its own population? Just don't tell me that you've been to Ukraine repeatedly, that you know the situation well, because you know that you've been to Kiev palaces tops. As you yourself have convinced yourself in the Gaza Strip, your own experience is above all. If you're afraid to fly there, ask Porošenko to cease fire and I'll accompany you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u169	Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u170	Good afternoon again. I would like to assure the Member that I was not only in the Kiev palaces, that I visited many other places, even visited Dnipropetrovsk, I visited Donetsk. I was in Donetsk a few days before all the roads were closed. I tried to get to Crimea shortly before it was occupied. In fact, the only reason I didn't make it to Crimea was because I was told that the plane wouldn't be able to land at the airport. So I assure you, I have actually visited a lot more places in Ukraine than just the Kiev palaces you mention. And I suppose if that were possible... Basically, my trips usually end where they're no longer willing to let me go because they're not willing to take over any guarantees. And don't be angry, but it's not some question of courage, it's just that I have to respect the danes that are in the way and I have to have an agreement with the government of that country, for example, I can't go anywhere. But other than that, I don't think it's a question of cowardice. And the other thing is, I think the wording you used is grossly incorrect and inaccurate. I don't like it when there's a fascism in this way. I think that even with the knowledge of Ukraine that I have, I think I have an idea of how serious the extremist excesses are there. I think that you too may well know that the voluntary battalions you seem to mean arose primarily in response to the Russian occupation of Crimea and the aggression in the east of the country as a result of the actual collapse of the army and other force structures of Ukraine. In the total number of several thousand men were financed by some oligarchs and collections among Ukrainian citizens, among whose members are members of football ultras and supporters of national right-wing movements. Most of them speak Russian. In many places in the east of Ukraine they have borne the main weight of fighting pro-Russian separatists and Russian regular troops. Since November 2014, however, the process of integrating all volunteer units including the Right Sector into the structures of the Ukrainian army and the National Guards subordinate to the Ministry of the Interior has continued. President Petr Porošenko spokesman for the so-called anti-terrorist operation Lysenko stated on 12 May that the process of the integration of the armed forces of the Right Sector into the military continues, adding that volunteers from the Donbas battalion and many others are already fully integrated into the military forces. I'm also saying this because I've been talking to President Porošenk about this thing repeatedly. I told him that it was unacceptable for us to move around Ukraine units in territories that they controlled, which are not under the unified command of the army. For us, these are simply principles that are unacceptable. This means the steps that are happening now and which I am describing are also the result of the fact that European politicians have repeatedly stressed that any armed forces must be under the control of the government, the Ministry of Defence, in command of the military. And fascism, anti-Semitism, the extreme right exists in Ukraine, but I can tell you that none of the government's representatives or parliamentary parties are applying to these movements and do not influence the Ukrainian government at this time. For the sake of completeness, I add that in the democratic parliamentary elections in October 2014 The right sector, which is considered to be the representative of the extreme right, won 1.8 percent of the votes and in the democratic presidential elections in May 2014, Dmytro Jaroš won 0.7 percent of the votes. I will find you a number of countries in Europe where the results of neo-Nazi parties are dramatically larger than the profits of these groups and movements in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u171	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u172	I can use another interpellation that I had prepared, because you almost asked for it yourself. Supporting fascism - you still support and have blinders in your eyes, and you're a minister of propaganda from the United States and the European Union. Forgive the expression, but that's how I feel. This morning, in response to Mr Grebeníček's interpelation, you said: "The year 2003, which is very warning to us in everything, because we all know that at that time we can consider it a failure of a large part of society, a number of Western countries, because what actually happened was that information was accepted, arguments which later proved to be false and false, which is a thing that can be said today as if it were coming back." End of quote from this morning. Yes, it's coming back to you. Yes, true and false as it is in many ways, I do not say in everything, but in many events in Ukraine over the last two years. The US Congress, which forbids the training of members of the fascist battalions of Azov, seems to have understood this. Will our foreign policy ever understand that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u173	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u174	I would just like to say to the honourable Member that nothing is coming back to me because I was not part of the coalition in 2003, but I was among those who pointed out that the whole action has risks because I wasn't sure if I knew the objective of the action and if anyone even knew what the Alliance was going to do, eventually waiting in place and if there was a plan and a programme to do the day after that. I'm definitely not the one who has to confess something. If you look at the parliamentary debate records, you'll find I wasn't on the side of those who supported something like that at the time. And of course, this morning I was talking about the fact that, as a result of what happened in 2003, it became much more difficult in the Security Council to establish consensus on any action. And since the veto of various permanent members of the Security Council has become increasingly popular, the Security Council has gradually become paralyzed. That's what I thought was coming back to us. It simply returns that the Security Council has happened in case we often need it to intervene, actually an incompetent action. And that happens repeatedly today. It's still up to date at this point. The lessons I had in mind are not an education, but it is, above all, the problem of the crisis that a system has come into to help address international issues at international level, including those related to migration, for example, today. This isn't about putting ash on your head. I have no reason to do this, but these are the consequences that have affected the international architecture of organisations, which are intended to help us solve often global problems that are very difficult to move with today and in which it is very difficult - and without joint support and without joint action, we do not stand a chance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u175	Thank you. The next will be Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u176	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I wanted to ask a few questions, such as confrontational ones, to the Minister of Finance, because different data are appearing around electronic sales records, but all of them are based on its future meaningfulness, efficiency for funding, funding this and contribution to the budget, but the data from which it is gradually based is changing not only in time, but also in the persons who say it. I'll allow myself to make this interview in writing. So I take it back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u177	Thank you. Please, Mr Vácha, who is next in line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're having some coalition upheaval around the union for individual MPs, I guess that's to be expected, but for me, the affair with the destroyed agricultural crop is much more important. I don't really care what ownership relationships are there, but for me, it's crucial that someone dares to destroy the crop, the future crop of food wheat. It should be harvested in two months. It's 270 ha. I don't know if you can imagine how large the area is 270 hectares. I'll zoom in on something else. From one hectare you can have up to five tons of crop, it is a total of 1,350,000 kg of grain! If you wash it, and there's some losses, you get about a million pounds of flour. One million pounds of flour makes two million loafs of bread. Two million loaf of bread have been destroyed! The average consumption of bread per citizen of the Czech Republic is 50 loaf per year. Of those two million loaf of bread, you would be able to feed one year 40,000 citizens of the Czech Republic! This is crucial to me, that someone or someone's company someone who is responsible for the company because they own it will destroy bread for 40,000 Czech citizens for one year. [[Time!]] [[Time!]] The Minister will say something now, and I will have an additional question. [[- No. Time! Unfortunately, I can't.]] For MEPs YES - it is approximately 30 million doughnuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u179	Thank you. The next one will be Antonín Seďa. He's absent, then Martin Kolovratník. Also absent. Jan Zahradník. Ambassador, please. To Secretary Marksová on the Children's Rights Act. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know now that the secretary isn't here, but since my colleagues and friends at the alternative education association have turned to me quite urgently, I'm going to read the interview and hope that I get some written answer, or maybe I'll present it next time. I therefore have information that a proposal for a new law on the protection of children's rights in the Czech Republic is being prepared at the Ministry of Minister Marksová. According to my information, the preparation is in the phase of creating a memorandum between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs then prepared material The Basic Thesis of the Act on Support for Families, Replacement Family Care and the System for the Protection of the Rights of the Child and Amendment of Related Legislation. From these materials, efforts are made to bring the system of care for children at risk into the MPSV gesture. The facilities in which the care of vulnerable children is currently taking place and which are educational institutions in the state of MŠMT are to become establishments providing social services. I'm stressing the service. There is a highly professional activity of erudized workers in these facilities, so it cannot be a service. It's about the execution of court decisions. These facilities are in great uncertainty due to the above. Now, Mr. Chairman, questions. I ask the Minister what form the preparation of both the memorandum and the fundamental theories of the Family Support Act is currently in, etc. I also consider it important to ask whether the thesis has been discussed with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Health. I also ask the Minister whether the termination of Act No. 109/2002 Coll., on Constitutional Education. And the last question - by whom and how the child placement process and its follow-up control will be managed. And the last, rhetorical question, is it not for Secretary Marksová to be reminded of the Children's Protection Office she's trying to establish, the one that's so discussed and I might as well say the dreaded Barnevern.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u181	Thank you, honourable Member. Unfortunately, the Minister is not present, so the Member will be answered in writing. Mr Adam Rykala withdrew further interpellation, followed by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who I do not see, is not present, so his interpellation is failing. And we will continue to interpel Mrs Jitka Chalánková to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek on the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the stay of parents with children in Norway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u182	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I have already informed you a moment ago that I have managed to ensure that I can deliver you a letter from the Norwegian Ambassador, where it is written that the Norwegian jurisdiction applies to all children who appear in any way in Norway. I'll deliver this letter to you. Dear Minister, once again to Mrs Michaláková and her children. Lately, it turns out her case isn't unique. We now know about similar cases in Poland, Latvia, Lithuania or Slovakia. One Polish case later revealed that the girl was guided by foster parents to admit beating her mother and that she would then be able to return to her mother because she would be able to receive non-beating courses from the state. The girl refused to admit something that wasn't true, and later the manipulation was declared before the Polish court. Personally, I was most affected by the case of a 10-week-old Slovak girl Maxine, who was taken away from the deaf mother for allegedly missing eye contact with the child. The mother was prevented from breast-feeding, and she can no longer breast-feed. My question is very simple: Has the Czech diplomacy considered international cooperation in the return of children to countries whose citizens also encounter the cultural differences of Norway in the education of children? Specifically, with the Visegrad countries? Is it possible to open this topic within the Visegrad group of countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u183	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask the Minister for his answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u184	Yes, thank you for asking. In July, the Czech Republic is now becoming the Presidency of Visegrad and, of course, I know about the cases that have been mentioned here, which relate not only to Visegrad countries, there are more of them. We also have some cases, for example, in the Baltic region, which I spoke to the Latvian Foreign Minister about. However, as I said, in July, we are launching the Presidency of Visegrad for one year, and I plan to open this issue as part of expert consultations, precisely to see how many such cases occurred in these closest countries of ours, neighbouring countries, and to have a general idea of this. At this point, I cannot promise that we will receive any request for joint action on the issue, which I would go too far, but they can promise that, in the context of expert consular consultations, this issue will be one of those that interests us within the Presidency and which we will open in this way within the Visegrad framework.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u185	Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u186	Thank you for your kind words. There really are more of those countries that are affected by this. These negotiations, or these cases, are also being ventilated at the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where countries such as the United Kingdom and Norway are repeatedly criticized for the high number of children taken from the Baltic countries and from the Visegrad Four countries, as you have said, Minister. So thank you again. What fills me with concern is that, above all, with Great Britain and Norway, our Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs prepares both the substantive and paragrafo intention of the so-called family care law, which is not there, and the care of the so-called endangered children, where it is a question of who will be these vulnerable children and who will determine it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u187	Thank you, ma'am. And the Minister's follow-up answer? Well, the Minister doesn't have an additional answer. We will continue with the 29th session by Mr Jan Farský, who will interpel the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová on the preparation of the Public Procurement Act. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u188	Thank you for the floor. I spoke to the secretary, she apologized to me for having to go to Plzeň. Anyway, I was saying that I'm gonna give the interview, and I'm gonna wait for a written answer, so I'm gonna rephrase it here. I consider this to be a very serious situation that should be heard here. By 18 April 2016, we need not only to approve, but to put into effect a new law on public procurement. I think it is one of the most important laws that the House will approve in the next period and in the next time. It's a law that redistributes selected taxes, and that gets to the successful ones and the good ones. Often and elsewhere, but perhaps this law should also eliminate it. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where this law is to be effective in ten months, it is not a simple standard, and according to my information it is still in an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, there are four thousand comments that are not settled, and there is a serious risk that the law will not be passed on the date that the European Commission has designated for us, and we will be exposed to the cessation of the drawing of European funds, that we will not be able to redistribute our taxes through public procurement and that there will be substantial chaos. My question is, are we gonna make it? If the schedules at the beginning of the set still apply. And if we're not going to make it, which, in my opinion, is already clear at this point, the way the government is preparing for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u189	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You made it in time and will be answered in writing by the Minister. Another interviewer will be Mr.František Vácha, who will interpel the absent Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš on food prices in the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Since the Minister is not present, I am happy to hand over my space to my colleague, Mrs Maxová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u191	The MP is a gentleman as always. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I would like a 31st interview by Mrs Radka Maxová to the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček on the matter of pharmacy in Mladá Vožice. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u192	Thank you, Mr President. I thank my colleague from South Bohemia on your behalf. Dear Minister, in a report broadcast in ČT24 on Friday 12. 6. Spokesperson of the Ministry of Health said that the Ministry of Health requested the opinion of the South Bohemia Region to abolish the category B pharmacy in Mladá Vožice. I have repeatedly been head of the Department of Health and Social Affairs of the Regional Authority of the South Bohemia Region, Mr Studenovskýý ukladen, that this department did not give any opinion to the Ministry of Health. The opinion was given to the pharmacist's legal representative. So I think it's obvious-- let me put it lightly-- false information, maybe even a lie. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the opinion of the South Bohemia Region, which was referred to by the press spokesperson at the Events of the region. But I'm warning you, I don't want an opinion sent to Mrs. Mgr Martínková, who represents Mr Macourek, but I want an opinion addressed to the Ministry of Health. At the same time, I also ask for a second opinion from the press secretary, and this is also addressed to the Ministry of Health and not to Mr Macourek's attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u193	There. I thank the lady. She'll be answered in writing, too, and... [[Mr Vahalová's gesture suggests an interest in speaking with the questioning.]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Mrs Dana Váhalová will give her final interview to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the issue of the care of children at risk. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Prime Minister. Dear Minister, it has been published in the media that your Ministry is working with Norwegian experts from Barnevern to prepare a law to regulate the rules for the withdrawal and care of vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u195	I apologise, Madame, you are giving such an important subject that it has obviously upset my colleagues, and I will ask them to remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u196	I noticed. If there's more time, I'll start over. Because there's little time, I'll keep going. Allegedly, these experts are already familiarizing Czech officials with the Norwegian Social Services system, and they are also supposed to participate in the substantive intention and paragrafo the wording of the law. My question is: is this information based on the truth? If that is true, don't you think that, given the growing publication of strange cases and practices of taking children and caring for children at risk in Norway, this cooperation can not only bring us culturally alien elements into our year's developed and proven childcare system, but can also be put at risk and called into question the efforts of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and President Miloš Zeman in the case of Mrs Michaláková's children and their return to mother's care? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-003-171.u197	There. This was the last interview to be answered in writing due to the absence of the Minister, and I am ending today's oral interview with individual members of the Government and interrupting the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will continue tomorrow at 9 o'clock. We will continue at 18 hours of extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as the President has called it.
