ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u1	30. Government bill amending Act No. 349/1999 Coll., on the Ombudsman, as amended, and other related laws /German press 379/ - first reading We discussed this House press on 20 January 2015 at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted it in the general debate by resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 588, and at the same time we asked that the public defender of the rights of Mrs Anna Šabatová be present. I ask now that Minister Jiří Dienstbier and rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Markéta Adamová take the position at the rapporteur's table. I welcome Mrs. ombudswoman Anna Šabatová among us. Welcome, Mrs. Ombudswoman. We will continue with the interrupted general debate, in which Minister Jiří Dienstbier first joined. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will not repeat the whole introductory word here, because it is a continuation of the debate, as has been said here. Nevertheless, I think that even at the beginning of today's negotiations it will be good to recapitulate some of the basic points of the bill. In addition to a certain refinement of the process of examining incentives and simplifying them, which should also be more friendly to all those whose interest and who are under investigation, the proposal therefore contains a strengthening of the Ombudsman's powers in two areas. That once is the right of the Ombudsman to propose the abolition of the constitutional laws of the Constitutional Court. This extension of powers is explicitly contained in the Government's declaration that the draft law submits. Perhaps I would like to make an interesting comparison here, because the Ombudsmans in 11 countries of the European Union have similar authorizations. What is interesting is that they have this authorisation in all Member States, which are the so-called. post-communist states, with the exception of Lithuania. Otherwise, in all other countries - with the exception of the Czech Republic - the Ombudsmen have this authorisation. So it's nothing unusual. The extension of authorisation in this regard is recommended by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and also by some other international institutions dealing with the protection of human rights. The second authorisation proposed by the Government's proposal to grant the Ombudsman is so called. an action in the public interest in the field of protection against discrimination. Once again, it's no big deal. We see that both the Ombudsman's institutions and some other human rights institutions of a similar nature in the countries of the European Union, about half the size of the number of countries that have this adjustment, so I say, are quite standard there. I would also mention the third authorisation or authority of the Ombudsman, which was in the original draft government law, that is to say. monitoring mechanism under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This went through the entire legislative process to the level of government, where it was eliminated for one reason only - because there was no consensus in strengthening the Ombudsman's Office on workers who would provide for this activity. Personally, I must say that I did not consider it reasonable to extend the power, unless it was also ensured by its proper performance. In the meantime, negotiations with the Ministry of Finance have eliminated this contradiction, but at the moment the bill is without this right of the Ombudsman, and it is also the debt of the Czech Republic from the international treaty that I mentioned here, or we are obliged to introduce such a monitoring mechanism. So I would like, then, if the law goes into second reading, to have a debate at committee level in this area as well. I note that there is no clear position here on extending the Ombudsman's powers in the areas that I have mentioned. I assume that there will be sufficient room for this debate if the law passes through the first reading and is given to the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies precisely in the committees, where there is, of course, an entirely open space for factual - I would like to stress the word factual - a debate on what powers of the Ombudsman are beneficial in terms of strengthening the protection of human rights in the Czech Republic. I would like to ask you for the support of the law for the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u3	Thank you, Minister Dienstbier. And now I will ask the public defender of Anna Šabatová's rights for her speech on this point. Please, Mrs. Ombudswoman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u4	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will not repeat what Minister Dienstbier said, that is, the factual information on what the draft amendment relates to, and I will try to respond to what the meeting with which you discussed the law for the first time at the end of January has been interrupted. There was a question as to how I feel about this, whether I insist on it or something in this sense, and the meeting was suspended and the meeting adjourned, so I understood that the Members also wanted to know my opinion. That's why I'm here. I know that the problems do not make the minor adjustments in the procedure, I know that the problem does not essentially raise questions related to the body monitoring the rights of people with disabilities, so I will briefly try to comment on two other things. [[16.10 hours]] If anyone asks me if two new powers are necessary for my work, I will answer you truthfully that they are not necessary. The body of the protector has been working for 15 years, and I think it has not had these powers so far. If someone asks me if the situation of people who turn to me can improve something or if they can find some specific cases better, I will answer yes clearly. It's probably hard to measure what this shift is like. All of you who have been in such situations when you have had to deal with individual complaints, so you realize how hard it is sometimes to find a tool, a way. And sometimes the instrument is just the law. You also know how hidden and obvious discrimination is spread in the Czech Republic. And sometimes there is another instrument that the Ombudsman has at the moment. I take it fundamentally as an institution, so at this point I'm not talking about myself, because it's not about my powers. Remember, it's not really about my powers, it's not about my power. It's about the people we're performing for. I'd like to underline that to make you realize that. My power won't get any bigger than an inch. The protector could never decide anything, always could only recommend or suggest. In this spirit, there are other privileges. I can't really decide for the judge to make a decision. All I can do is make a suggestion, make a statement, and it's up to the court to decide. Unfortunately, I cannot accept some arguments that this is too much power in one hand. It's not like that. The protector only recommends. It's up to you. I can give you a few examples. I asked my colleagues when they asked me what cases I would use it in. I don't know in the future where I would use it because it brings the situation. There's a lot of cases that people are looking at you with. There are several specific cases that my predecessors have been dealing with, and it took them a very long time. Somewhere the solution is not quite satisfactory today and, on the contrary, it has been achieved somewhere, but far earlier, it would have succeeded with less strength earlier if it had been authorized to bring a lawsuit on discrimination issues to the court. I mean, this kind of lawsuit doesn't represent an individual and doesn't ask for his satisfaction. It's the kind of lawsuit that asks the institution to refrain from discriminatory conduct. Such an action is only suitable for situations where discrimination is not hidden, but is actually incorporated into some legislation, some internal standard, some methodologies, or practices of an institution. For example, for almost three years, the Ombudsman had been at war with the Prague Transport Company to allow the blind and otherwise disabled to enter into mass transport with a trained dog without a muzzle. It was unsuccessful when he had to look for specific people who de facto persuaded them to go to court, there were two or three, and then, in the pre-trial challenge, the Transport Company finally withdrew. This is a typical situation where regulations affect a number of entities, you do not require money, but you want a discriminatory entity to end its activities. We had an investigation into the Grant Agency, when it was suspected that how postdoctoral grants are set, i.e. grants for women and men often at the age of thirty, thirty-five years, when a lot of people are starting a family nowadays, that these conditions are set so strictly that they can only be interrupted once in a whole period of grant, i.e. in a few years, only for a year and the application can only be filed in two months a year. These conditions are very negative as indirect discriminatory rules against mothers or fathers who would like to take care of children. We alerted Grant's agency, and even though she promised to remove this, unfortunately, we found out that she hadn't removed it. It would be one of the candidates for such a lawsuit. I could continue, but I think these two cases illustrate the type of situations in which such a lawsuit can be brought with the hope of success. It's usually a situation that's somehow expressed by a regulation. Members of Parliament, I will no longer delay this, or if you are interested in anything, I will answer your questions, and otherwise you are the ones who will decide. I'm just following the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Ombudsmance, for her clear statement. Now with priority rights for the Citizen's Democratic Party MP, Vice-President Jana Černochová. prosit, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to argue with the last sentence of the Ombudsman that she is following the law, because on the example of a scarf affair in one of the health schools, Mrs Ombudswoman has clearly shown that she has exceeded her authority because her position was not a recommendation, but she has forced the school principal, Dr. Kohoutová, to change the school rules on the basis of her request. Here I dare very strongly to argue over what was said a little while ago. The bill is another unsystemic and destabilizing intervention in the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. We already have a wealth of experience with similar interventions, where politicians have succumbed to the often artificially induced pressure that has been shielded by various activists such as Mrs Šabatová and the public interest and we have undermined the stability of the constitutional system by rash and inconsistent change. If you don't know what I'm talking about, I'll mention one single direct election to the president. The original meaning of the Ombudsman's office is completely different. It is intended to support the public in disputes with the state administration, to provide legal and other advice, to publicly point out the problematic conduct of the state administration authorities, to be a mediator in resolving disputes with the authorities, to submit non-binding proposals for changes in the functioning of the state administration. Strengthening the ombud's power is a shift towards further fracturing of the fundamental elements of power. Charles Montesquieu's historically proven system, a system of three pillars of power, legislative, executive and judicial, which has been operating for centuries, does not need such major corrections as Mrs Šabatová wants, and does not need the fourth pillar to be created. The Ombudsman is elected by the Chamber of Deputies, which is responsible for its activities. It is a complete nonsense for the Ombudsman to effectively oversee and exercise his control over the body, Parliament, the two chambers that elect him and which he is responsible for. The government is also responsible to the Chamber of Deputies, but it doesn't monitor it, it doesn't mentor it, it doesn't coordinate. The bill means another erosion of politics, another shift from the system where the centre of power lies in the hands of voters elected by politicians, to a system where unelected officials decide, and the Ombudsman would be in great advantage in such a system against Members, for example, in the sense that his term of office extends beyond the term of office of the Chamber of Deputies, because his term of office, Mrs Šabatová's term, is six years old, and we can dissolve this year. Moreover, Mrs Šabatová's current practice of performing the ombudsman's function points out how easy this function is to politicize and how easy it is to design its own ideological beliefs and its own worldview to perform this function. That is what the Ombudsman should avoid. Mr Motejl did it, Mr Varvařovský did it, Mrs Šabatová couldn't do it. [[16.20 hours]] Extending powers carries an even greater risk of politicizing this function. The Ombudsman will be a much larger sovereign, and he will then be equal to the President in the possibility of a constitutional suit and above the equivalent of every single Member or Senator, which is totally unacceptable. [[with emphasis]] One Mrs Šabatová is equal to 40 Members. The performance of the Ombudsman's duties in Mrs Šabatová's submission is accompanied by an unprecedented degree of political activism. There is no question as to the legitimacy of her election, even if it was one vote. And I certainly didn't vote for Mrs. Šabatová. However, the Ombudswoman has not abandoned her lifelong position as an activist who is hard on her own. It does not show willingness to respect the will of the democratic majority and the traditional Jewish-Christian values on which our society stands, relying on extra-election routes and procedures in promoting its attitudes. The fact that this law, which Mr. Dienstbier has presented for us for the government, is actually the fact that she has been lobbying herself. This too is a warning of why we must not accept this law. So let me file a motion for rejection on behalf of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u7	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. I am writing a motion for rejection, the third in this debate. Mr Benda is also reporting to the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u8	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Prime Minister - I am sorry, Prime Minister, only then, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I also want to comment on this for a moment, and I say frankly that I never make any constitutional changes, or even legal changes, but here we are almost at the edge of constitutional change, as it is conceived with regard to how this function is occupied. [[Dienstbiere]] [[The speaker turns to the Prime Minister in the government bench]] And I consider it unnecessary and unfortunate to put this into consideration, however deeply ideologically we can disagree with the current public defender of rights. But then I consider it unnecessary to consider whether or not to expand any ombudsman's competences, to associate with the current occupation of the function. At the same time, however, I say that I am the Ombudsman's office, which is dating these ideas, and that the Ombudsman has not always taken them up, since they are actually starting to come up with it, because they would love it, even for all previous Ombudsmans, whom I considered to be much more moderate in my public appearance and in legal opinions than I consider to be today's public defender of rights, I have always said to them: No, these are the things that I consider pointless to give you. The fact that the Ombudsman is to have a constitutional action against the unconstitution of laws and their individual provisions is simply a gross mistake, a gross error, especially in the Czech constitutional system. It is very nice, and I am sorry that the Minister won't admit it, but it would be fair to admit that in those countries there is no individual action to repeal the law or the law if it has intervened in fundamental human rights and freedoms. The joke of the Czech Republic is that everyone here has this power. If he has been actually harmed, if the decision of the public authorities and the application of the law has brought about a situation which has violated his fundamental human rights and freedoms, then everyone has the right to a particular decision which is sought to be annulled by the Constitutional Court to request the repeal of the relevant anti-constitutional regulation. This is unusual. In most of these countries, at least I know, which the Minister has quoted here, there is no such authority of individual citizens, and then sometimes, exceptionally, the Ombudsman's powers are replaced, which, when he gathers enough incentives from the citizens, makes a proposal for annulment if politicians do not want to give it to politicians. But what we're trying to construct is something completely reversed. There's no problem. There's no problem! No one in particular is involved in his human rights and freedoms! Only someone in a beautiful office in Brno will think that there might be a problem, that if we applied it this way, there might be a violation of somebody's fundamental rights and freedoms. And that is what is bothering me, because they are exactly the bearers of good, in many ways the focus around today's public defender of rights, but I agree that even around the Minister without a portfolio, which is the message of these holders of left-wing earnings and all the collective rights that may exist. But this is a situation where we don't have specific damage, we don't have a specific person who's been affected. The Ombudsman can, of course, turn to Parliament, as has been said many times, for example in the rapporteur's report, so that 40 Members, 15 senators or the President of the Republic, may even add to the proposals, but that is not enough. We need to start spreading the good from the office in Brno. And that is a matter that I fundamentally disagree with, regardless of how the Ombudsman's office is occupied and whether I consider today's public defender to be too activist or too little activist. It is simply the very idea that it invents and goes through the judicial system to commit new and new gains that I find very, very doubtful. It is not true, as the public defender of rights said, that the protector recommends. The protector gives a specific action, a specific proposal. That's not a recommendation. Yes, he does not have a decisive say, but his proposal has to be decided in some way and thus initiates a procedure and it must be the proceedings in those matters where there are no specific cases and specific errors. Unfortunately, the same concerns the actio popularis - public lawsuits. You know, the countries that have tried it out today, if they're willing to admit it, are ripping their hair off what they've committed in these public lawsuits, and they're just desperate to see how they might back out of it again if the willingness to actually lead the debate. Again, these are cases where - especially on discrimination - I have no victim, I have no one to complain to, at least now they're going to complain to those challengers who provoked individual tenants, whether they're renting them or not, but there's some concrete damage, but they'll come up with a general thesis, a general good, on the basis of which they'll be - and now we don't know exactly who everything - they're talking about legislation, but they might also not be legal regulations, maybe it'll be that we're going to have food harm suits in a few moments, the harmfulness of smoking, that yes, for example, in the United States, a very popular lawsuit where I think the democrats who once admitted it are quite unhappy today. But we're going to have cases of other absurdities that we know today from the very concept of the United States. They're exactly the kind of things we're not supposed to admit. Courts have individual disputes to decide. The fact that our Constitutional Court has a high degree of abstract review of constitutionality on the basis of proposals from Members and Senators, that it has become quite abundant in the past opposition and we have admitted that the Constitutional Court says "30 CZK fee is still good, but 45 is already too much" seems highly doubtful to me. But if we start here in unspecific cases, let others and other activists, however well they may think, then I say that it may be better to lock this house up and let the Ombudsman, together with the Constitutional Court, determine what the limits of the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms are, because we have the Charter written, it is done and it will be interpreted only by it. [[16.30 hours]] I suggest we get this bill back to the government to redeploy. I know that there are parts that are technical and reasonable, but I consider both the essential parts that I have tried to discuss to be so wrong that I do not believe that they can be recast in the committees. As a matter of fact, I do not believe that it would make sense for committees to launch a proposal that will not hide the two essential parts in itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u9	I thank Mr Benda. And now, first of all, with the factual remark of Mr Martin Komárek, following him with priority rights, President Mihola, followed by Mr Fiedler. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it will suffice me to make a factual point to say that I think it is illogical to reject such a proposal at first reading with a reference to the fact that the Sovereign is the House and should decide everything. We de facto say that the House is unable to assess any bill in the committees. That's illogical. And then, as far as substance is concerned, I believe that there are so many offended and humiliated in our country, partly by our guilt, ladies and gentlemen, that they really need a defense. And the Ombudsman, if he is able to carry out his office according to his best knowledge and conscience, helps us do so. That he's helping us repair the damage to the overall state of our society. So I personally believe that extending powers could be a good way to go. I am absolutely sure that this honourable House can judge which powers the Ombudsman should be given, and I think it is quite clear that we should judge the law in committees. After all, we've set up guarantee committees, I think we're competent. Let's not be so self-righteous - it's a tongue-mouthing, I've put myself down for punishment. Let us not be as self-righteous as Marek Benda here says through Mr President that we simply cannot do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u11	I thank Mr Komárek. With another factual remark, Mr Benda, after which Mr Lank. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u12	Thank you. I don't like to do this because I lecture my colleague Komárek on the Rules of Procedure, because it is, of course, unfair if I've been studying him for 20 years and he's been here for a year. But the first reading is precisely to assess whether the bill is meaningful or pointless. And it is only when we conclude that it is meaningful and that we want it, that it is worth discussing it in committees and making possible corrections. I proposed a return to the government because I said there are technical things that don't make a problem. But I consider both basic ideas wrong and wrong. If you're ready to step up and say both basic thoughts are right and good and I want them on the committees, then argue with me. But don't start with me about declaring this House inconvenient. I would never really dare. I believe she's self-righteous, and I believe she's self-righteous at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u13	I thank Mr Benda for his optimistic words to the House. With another point of fact, Mr Martin Lank, after whom Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u14	Beautiful afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I'm gonna be very brief, so I'm gonna be able to make a very good point. I just can't forgive myself. When I was watching the last job of the Ombudsman's office with provocateurs in renting apartments, I was like, "Hell, I can pick the apartment if it belongs to me, so I can choose the tenant according to who I want." And with forgiveness, no one's gonna talk to me about it. In this situation, and after this has happened, I don't want to vote here about expanding the ombud's powers. And if I'm even more honest, I'd much rather take away the Ombudsman's powers now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u15	Thank you, Mr Lank. With a factual remark, Mr Martin Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, far from lecturing my colleague Marek Benda, whom I very much appreciate. But I understand that someone who has spent his entire life sitting in this honored House has lost the ability to obey. And Marek Benda didn't hear what I said. I didn't question his ability to propose a return to the government. I was simply saying that I believe that this House is able to judge these powers in committees, to extend powers, to remake laws, that there is no need to return the law to the government. Of course, I know the Rules of Procedure. He doesn't have to do politics for 20 years, I mean, since his college, to read a law that simple. I simply expressed the view that this House of Honor can deal with this by its own work in committees. We may not be able to answer clearly at first reading whether everything is constitutionally conformal. I'm just saying we can deal with it. We have a relatively long deadline, and I trust the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u17	I thank Mr Komárek. Now with priority rights, Mr. President of the KDU-ČSL, Mr. Mihola. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u18	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the extension of the Ombudsman's power. In my speech, I would like to point out, among other things, the inconclusive development of the entire Ombudsman's office since 2000. And then I also have a few comments on my own text, on my own proposal. The Ombudsman was originally intended as a small office to assist a citizen in the fight against bureaucracy. It is now an office with four trade unions with 15 departments, a total of 119 employee tables, of which 73 lawyers. Gradually, the task was to mediate without any executive powers the dispute between the citizen and the office. Since 2006, the protector has been a national preventive mechanism against torture and mistreatment. Since then, the trend has continued that, if necessary, on the basis of international commitments to the establishment of a new office, the Ombudsman is hereby entrusted. One of the reasons undoubtedly was the ethos and the personality of Dr. Otakar Motejl. In 2008, the protector obtained a special authorisation in the field of state administration, the judiciary - the right to propose the initiation of disciplinary proceedings against the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Court in case of breach of their duties. By approving the anti-discrimination law in 2009, the protector became a body assisting victims of discrimination. Since the beginning of 2012, the Ombudsman may bring an action for the protection of the public interest, which until then could only be brought by the Supreme Prosecutor. The possibility of bringing an action in civil matters is now discussed. In so doing, if the Ombudsman wanted to be active, he is not limited to the grounds set out in the Anti-discrimination Act, but only to the extent that, in a particular case, he finds the unequal treatment of the appropriately elected so-called. It's a comparator. Now to the text of the proposed law itself. [[16.40 hours]] The reason report foggs, claiming that it strengthens the position of the Ombudsman as a mediator, but abandons the mediation principle. The principle of mediation is that the mediator is not equipped with any powers, while the ombudsman's powers are repeatedly strengthened. The explanatory memorandum shows in many cases how different competences are held by similar institutions abroad, without at the same time stating whether these foreign institutions also have as wide a scope as in the case of the Czech Ombudsman. In addition, foreign examples are selected selectively. There is talk that the Ombudsman will be given a new power to bring an action in the field of equal treatment, where its limitations will only be so called. public interest. But only the Ombudsman will define this public interest. The possibility of a court to examine the merits of the public interest is minimal, as the action brought will always at least touch any public interest. The important thing is that the law entrusts the Ombudsman with this new power much wider than it is presented on the outside. The Ombudsman, in addition to bringing an action, will also be able to intervene in the proceedings of other applicants, and then to continue in these proceedings and to file proper and exceptional remedies, irrespective of the will of the original applicants, in spite of their opposition, or when they decide to terminate the proceedings themselves. The public prosecutors had similar powers only in precisely defined procedures in which disadvantaged persons and prosecutors had to defend their rights. Ombudsmen are also given the powers to bring three additional types of action in the field of administrative justice. Change in the administrative order of the court... It's points 2, 3, 4 on page 7 and others. Its restrictions on the application of administrative actions are being lifted. While he has only been able to do so if the court has shown that there is a serious public interest, it will be sufficient if he finds a serious public interest unilaterally in bringing the action. The Ombudsman is thus again trying to compare himself to the Supreme Attorney. In 2015, therefore, by way of partial amendments without a more thorough parliamentary debate, it appeared as deus ex machina ombudsman, who may, by way of a recommendation, force the administrative authority to take action in a particular direction or bring an action against the inaction of the administrative authority if it does not accept its proposals; by way of administrative action, to challenge the conduct of an administrative office with which it does not agree. It will now be able to bring lawsuits in civil matters, or to enter civil actions brought by other persons, by applying for annulment of the law to the Constitutional Court. De facto, a civil prosecutor or third Monocratic Chamber of Parliament with executive powers is established in Brno. All we have to do is hope that this Monocratic Authority subordinate to the Chamber of Deputies will be entrusted with the powers that are now indirectly involved, among other things. control of the legislative activities of the Chamber of Deputies, to carry out this function wisely and that a person wise and prudent will always carry out this function in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u19	I thank Prime Minister Mihol. Another duly registered member is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u20	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not be as long as my previous speakers, because a number of arguments and opinions on this point have already been made. When the previous speaker spoke, I believe he was a fellow Member of Benda, and I ran into the Ombudsman's website. I will read one sentence: "The protector may conduct an independent investigation, but he cannot replace the activities of the government authorities and cannot disturb or alter their decisions. " I think that's a pretty substantial sentence that the Ombudsman's office has today on its website. There were other comments and reservations. There's only one thing I'm gonna mention. A case of scarves. It wasn't human rights. That was mere ideology. And I don't know what kind of e-mails you, colleagues and colleagues, in reverse, first colleagues and then colleagues, are being e-mailed from the citizens to what you are being called on to, because we here represent the citizens of our Republic, our country. I was given - I don't know if to say many, say, enough e-mails that called for the ombudsman's competence not to be increased. I did not get the only one for this proposal, from among the citizens. And since we are here to represent the views of citizens, let me just remind you that in the last discussion of this point, which has been suspended, I also proposed that this law be rejected at first reading. To discuss whether to reject it or to return it to recast, return it to committees. I think this Chamber of Deputies has a few complaints about its activities because of the laws that leave our House. We were discussing the law of the service, which was a shrunk of amendment laws. It's tomorrow with the energy bill. I think that, even in this case, the number of amendments might not be as large, but I hope that it will be sufficient to create another mess. And I think that we should also create a time frame so that we can devote ourselves to the laws that we are discussing, which have been well processed, and not to address their total overwork here. For this reason, I recall that I also filed a motion for refusal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u21	I thank Mr Fiedler. Another duly registered member is Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, while I am aware that this is a government bill, as a coalition member here, I want to make it clear that I am prepared to support this bill, provided that it does not include the extension of the Ombudsman's power to make proposals for repealing the law. It bothers me as a lawyer, I consider it constitutional excess. Colleagues on the right were making a very good argument here. If we look at the individual list of entities that are legitimized actively to make such proposals, then I must just point out that we have forgotten in this listing the activities of the general courts, because the activity of the general courts is the centre of gravity in our democratic society and in our legal order, which ensures the protection of all the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. This means that we will completely deny the existing working principle that the general courts can suspend the proceedings which are initiated on the proposal of the appellant, as rightly the colleague, through Mr President, Benda, has said - anyone who can bring a lawsuit with us. And it is the court that can, on the basis of its own decision, come to its conclusion and, as a preliminary question, assess whether there is a presumption that such a rule of law, which is to be applied to a particular example, is contrary to the Constitution. In such a case, the proceedings shall be adjourned and the court shall file an application for a Constitutional Court. That's the procedure that's right. [[16.50 hours]] What happens now? So we're gonna build an Ombudsman next to the court. I'm just saying, I'm gonna talk about who the judge is for a while. The judge is a man who has a degree in law school, he has to undergo three years of practice in the judicial waiting room in court, in various courts, and, in conclusion, pass, I would say, today even extremely difficult trials. If you look at the Ombudsman's selection process, there's no such thing as a matter of course. So the first question that is offered is who will be as a preliminary question with the Ombudsman and on the basis of which personal qualifications to judge the unconstitution. I just can't find an answer to that. On the contrary, I am convinced that the current situation in the list of entities entitled to submit such proposals is correct. When we look at the history of why the Ombudsman was created, it was in Sweden around 1809, we lawyers at all faculties learned it, so we know the origin and history of this institution. We know that she was primarily formed as such a friend of citizens against the power of executives. Where an unfair administrative act or other formal or informal activity was applied by the executive power, the Ombudsman was supposed to be the one to point it out and show the citizen how to defend himself in the legal confusion. And that's okay, that's just the way it should be, and that's the meaning of the Ombudsman. Constitutionally right to put the Ombudsman in a role, if he is not a helping dog next to the power of the court, that is, the power of the executive, and he is even going to be put into the role of the legislature to guard us, so that is constitutional excess! This is beyond the edge of the current constitutional foundation, simply the layout of power, balance, etc. If we look at why a group of Members, 40 Members, have the opportunity to file a constitutional complaint or a motion to repeal the law? Well, because it protects itself and fills the principle of protecting a parliamentary minority so that a parliamentary majority cannot adopt a law that is unconstitutional and could permanently change the rules of the game! And it's worth a hell of a lot, and it's got a hell of a lot of meaning! So 40 Members who have this right to protect this constitutional principle will suddenly be placed at the same level as one Ombudsman. You see, at this point, I'm trying to argue ad absurdum, and I'm saying it to myself. even to learn a little more about the reasons that are supposed to lead to this, according to my serious legislative change. It's the same with the senators. Again, it is intended to protect the current parliamentary majority. And the president is there because he is an active participant in the legislative process, so it is logical that he has this authorisation too. So I would beg under, I don't mean to say heavy, but on the basis of that, I dare say, the arguments that I have made here so that someone can really explain to me, like a small child, why we should approve this, why the Ombudsman should have such new powers. Nothing in the rest of it, there I, unlike my colleagues on the right, am prepared to discuss it in committees and try to make a legislative change, but I am strongly opposed to the Ombudsman having such authority! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u23	I thank my colleague Stupčuk. Another duly applied for is Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u24	Hello. I'm not gonna be for this bill, and I'm gonna take it a little bit from the other side of why. You know, it's an honor to be in conflict with, perhaps, Minister Dienstbier. Not because I'm enjoying it personally, but there's a beautiful view of the world's double vision. The first vision of the world that I stand for is that we should raise citizens to be able and used to caring for themselves. This is one of the other proposals that goes to the fact that the citizens to whom this state allows free legal proceedings, free constitutional complaints, so that they can basically sit at home, and there's always someone who can take care of them. For educational reasons, I think it is wrong to adopt further and other care provisions when someone is caring for a particular population. And in this I would like to name it - and it's impersonal, it's a certain position, let's say, very left-wing, I dare say, which Minister Dienstbier has, and I would call mine liberal. That's where it just moves. But I really don't think it's right for us to, in principle, adopt more and more provisions so that people can get out of caring for their rights. On the contrary, they must get used to taking those rights on their own in situations that life will bring. The second objection, which is probably already said here, is, of course, the overload of the courts, especially the Constitutional Court. I had the opportunity, I wasn't alone, I guess it was a year ago, maybe my colleague Tejc will remember better when we visited the Constitutional Court. There was a debate with all the constitutional judges about these proposed measures and there were two facts. The first is known - the overload of the Constitutional Court, and the second is known less, and this is that the Office of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman can already act as a side party in those proceedings which it considers appropriate, now I am making it a little easier, and that law has almost not been used in the time when the office exists. That means, although the Ombudsman was already able to go to the Constitutional Court, he almost didn't use that option at all. As far as the other reason is concerned, these are public-interest lawsuits, there I think it is again a matter that goes beyond what I said in the first place, and I think that it is also a right that does not systemicly belong to the Ombudsman, and the possibility of dealing with these issues already provides enough for today's legal order. And the last thing I want to say, maybe it applies to the media sometimes, that Mrs Šabatová, for example, currently holds the office, and that the objections that we are saying are needed because of her. I, and the Minister of Justice will hear it many more times from me when we talk about the prosecutor's office, and that is my favorite sentence, the members of the Constitutional Committee already know it, and that is Hamilton of the Federalist List: In any institution we create, which we give any authority, we must count on the sinfulness of the people who will hold that office, not the fact that angels are coming into office. This is the deep truth that created the Constitution of the United States and therefore exists. This means that it is not now that Mrs Šabatová may not be able to use any institutions or any authority. I have to think that there may also be others in that office who might take advantage of this. You're gonna ask me how to abuse. Maybe for your own personal popularity. It's already been abused. Whoever's going to file these constitutional complaints is going to be taken for the rights of different residents in some way, so one thing is guaranteed, and that's at least media attention. And I think the Ombudsman is supposed to work effectively, but he doesn't have to be obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u25	I thank Mr Blažek. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS MP, is also reporting to the general debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u26	Thank you for the floor. About those two things about expanding the Ombudsman's power. Many colleagues have already spoken to the first one. And so that it is not so that Members are offended by the fact that, for 40 Members, the same authority is given to one single Ombudsman and then the parliamentary minority that it is the protection of a parliamentary minority, as a colleague said a moment ago, then the foresight of the Social Democrats is that they have occupied the Ombudsman's office with their party nominations, and whether they are in the majority or in the minority, they will also have that power. But that's not the most important thing I want to say. That's already been said. I want to stop at the public prosecution question. Maybe someone's saying it's wrong what Mrs. Ombudswoman did with the hired agent or the agenda or the provocateur. I think that's a good thing in the context of the proposed measures. Really, according to the practical interpretation and procedure and the proposed measures, the government coalition threatens and should listen to all owners of private space, that someone else will determine to whom they will rent their housing. Directly in the draft law, the explanatory memorandum states that, for example, access to housing is the reason for public actions. And I have a firm opinion that a private owner can accommodate whoever he wants, and the state isn't supposed to talk to him about it. I really don't! We're not talking about community apartments. This is a different story, where they have to pay other methods, social aspects and others. That's why they're municipal, that's why this one works, and it depends on the municipalities occupying them. But this attempt by our left, which wants to do good and occupy the houses and apartments of private owners, as it sees fit, and if not, you will be sued by a public lawsuit, that is clear from the proposal! [[17,00 hours]] So I'm glad the event took place. And ask yourself whether you would be in favour of someone - the Ombudsman, the magistrate, the municipal office, the Chamber of Deputies, the government - determining whom and to whom you should rent your premises. I'm against it. And the next time the owner says he doesn't want a smoker there, is that discrimination? Well, in the logic of things, yes. But since the modern left says smokers are bad, it's probably not discrimination. I know it's perfectly legitimate when someone says I want a non-smoker, because if someone smokes there, they'll somehow devalue my property. Or I want a family there or something. We should always be careful when the state wants to do good. That's my favorite line again. In my opinion, this proposal is even more dangerous and more dangerous than the fact that the Ombudsman's office can itself, itself, or one Ombudsman or one Ombudsman, really it is not personal, to propose the abolition of the law or part of the law. This is not as important as the fact that it is another attack on the freedoms of private owners and private owners. And we shouldn't let that happen. It can't be redesigned. It either is or it isn't. I don't see how we can adjust public lawsuits in committees. The calculus method? All those anti-discrimination fighters will be against it. I don't know. I think it's wise to reject the proposal at first reading, not waste time and not make private owners. There are government MPs here who claim themselves and who are upset when I say that the left-wing government rules us. Here is your chance to show that this is true and that I say this unjustly, that at least some government Members do not vote for leftist or extremely leftist proposals. And I consider it extremely left-wing. So where have you been, protectors of individual and private property freedoms? I don't really care about the coalition contract. The vote is simple. Who wants the state to tell private owners who they've got a place to stay, who they're supposed to rent, who they're for. Anyone who doesn't want it is against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u27	Thank you to ODS Chairman Zbyňka Stanjur. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. That was the last one entered in the debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Is the Minister interested in the final word? He does. The rapporteur? Also. Please, first the Minister with the final word. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u28	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would be very happy to respond to some of the things that have been said here in the debate. As I said in my opening speech today on this point, as well as strengthening the Ombudsman's powers in both areas, both in the case of a proposal to abolish the Constitutional Court's laws on non-constitutionality, as well as the action in the public interest in discrimination, results from a government statement. By submitting this bill, the government is fulfilling its government statement. As far as the debate on an action in the public interest for protection against discrimination is concerned, I would like to point out that this does not extend the scope of cases where such an action can be brought. In this case, however, individual actions must be brought according to the current legal situation. However, factually to the same extent. In other words, if anyone fears, for example, that the courts might say that there has been discriminatory conduct in the area of housing, this can, of course, already happen today if the person who believes that he has been discriminated against by his rights brings such an action and succeeds in the court. The fact that we propose to give the Ombudsman the opportunity to bring an action in the public interest in cases where this concerns more than one person, but only that the person who is hardly discriminated against abstains from this discriminatory conduct can also be very effective from the point of view of the burden on the Czech courts and also from the point of view of effective protection against discrimination. Because one such action can solve a larger number of model cases that can practically occur. But the substantive scope of protection is not expanding, only in a process, one could simply say. Mr Benda here said that the countries that have introduced the possibility of such a lawsuit are bitterly sorry. I wonder which country. I could mention here the case of Slovakia which introduced the possibility of an action - anti-discrimination action - in the public interest even in such a way that this authorisation gave this active legitimacy to the bringing of the action by law to non-profit organizations that have protection against discrimination as an object of activity. I suppose if we could come up with such a suggestion, it would arouse an even more passionate debate here. And what happened in Slovakia? During the period of application of such an adjustment, two such actions were brought, one of which was successful in the court, one of which has not yet been definitively decided. From that number alone, it is clear that they did not receive any bitter pity in Slovakia and that even this institute is not overused. And as I have tried to justify, it is also effective. Perhaps, in this context, so-called. provocation in relation to discrimination in housing. I think, for the record, it must be said that it is probably not good to draw information from a server that is trying to suggest that it has something to do with Parliament. Because this so-called provocation was not organized at all by the Ombudsman's Office but by a non-profit organisation. The Ombudsman's office acted there when she was asked for an opinion, consistently within the limits of the law, and only gave her legal opinion on the situation. So it really needs to be based on verified data, or at least ask if this thing went the way it was claimed. Because it appeared here in at least two performances. And now, to the other authority, to propose the abolition of the Constitutional Court's laws on unconstitutionality. I was quite amused by how some of the speeches here were contradictory, namely two representatives of the Civil Democratic Party, Mrs Černochová and Mr Benda, because on the one hand, we heard the horror of 40 Members and 17 Senators and the only Ombudsman against it. On the other hand, we have heard that every citizen of the Czech Republic, every citizen in connection with his case, if he is exhausted by other means, has other legal means of his protection. Where, then, is the horror raised by the possibility that one person, one person who is currently acting as Ombudsman, would have that authority? As I have said here, it is a relatively common competence of the Ombudsman, so it probably does not interfere with the constitutional systems of the countries that have implemented this. At the end of last week, there was even a conference in Brno on the occasion of 15 years of the establishment of an Ombudsman, where I think there were eight Ombudsmen except for one exception from the EU countries that were just describing how effectively this power contributed to better protecting the rights of people in their countries. However, as I also said at the beginning, I think we will still have plenty of opportunities if the law is passed, it will be directed to committees to debate the meaning and scope of the Ombudsman's powers. Therefore, I will ask you once again to release the law into second reading and order the relevant committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u29	Now, the rapporteur. I see the application from the chairman of the ODS club, but outside the debate. Now the rapporteur must have the final word announced. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just briefly summarize how the negotiations on this government bill, amending Act No. 349/1999 Coll., on the Ombudsman, as amended, and the laws relating thereto, took place. The first reading, which was launched at the meeting on 21 January 2015, was suspended in the general debate, therefore for the request for Ms Anna Šabatová's participation. However, two proposals for rejection have already been made at this meeting. One was made directly by me and a fellow Member, Karel Fiedler, who repeated it today, and a third motion for rejection was added to this proposal, namely on behalf of Mrs Černochová for the ODS club. Furthermore, we have another proposal, and that is to return the petitioner to the recast. The law, as has already been mentioned many times in the entire debate, focuses on two new powers for the Ombudsman. One is the authorisation which allows the Ombudsman to file a motion to the Constitutional Court for annulment of the law or part of it, and the second proposed measure is the filing of a public action, so-called. actio popularis, in the field of discrimination. We have to deal with these proposals, which, as I say, were three times to reject and one to return to recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u31	Thank you to the rapporteur. The President of the ODS Club has also signed up with priority rights. Then I'd take the vote. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u32	Thank you. To make a comprehensive assessment of the debate, not an enumeration. The minister forgot that many of the accusations that sounded from this side sounded from this side. I know it's not right for you and you don't hear it, or you act like you don't hear your colleagues' speeches from your own political party saying the same thing as your right. So why don't you tell these colleagues that they're completely wrong, like my colleagues, who you think are completely wrong? I will ask you a very simple question, Minister, and I would ask you the answer yes or no. You don't have to go anywhere, of course. [[unintelligible]] If you don't answer, you won't answer. Does a private owner have the right to rent his living or business space to whom he wants or not? That's a simple question. I would ask you to answer yes or no without long pins and philosophical reasoning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u33	Thank you to the chairman of the ODS Club. I think we have finished the debate and we will look at what the rapporteur has said. [[Member Stanjura off the microphone: Can you answer me?]] I think the Minister doesn't have to answer, it's only up to his will if he wants to or doesn't want to. I think that there was a time for questions in the debate, but I leave this, of course, to the will of those who have the right of priority under the Rules of Procedure Act. In this respect, we will vote under the Rules of Procedure Act first on the proposal made by Mr Marek Benda, as Mrs Adamová mentioned, and that is the proposal to return the applicant to work. First, I'm gonna check you all out, I'm gonna put you all in, and I'm gonna get my colleagues from the lobby, if necessary. I'm going to ask you for a new registration, please log in with your I.D. cards. Once the number of applications has been settled, we will vote on Mr Marek Benda's proposal to return the draft law to the applicant for completion, in the 60-order vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the return. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 60, from 155 in favour of 61, against 47, the proposal was not adopted. We will now deal with the proposals that have been made in the debate at least three times, and this is a motion for rejection. It is the 61 series vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of rejecting this bill. Who's against rejection? Thank you. Voting order number 61, from 157 in favour of 52, against 51, has not been accepted either. We will therefore continue, by proposing to the committees for discussion on the commandment. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. Pursuant to the amendment to the Act on Rules of Procedure, the Organising Committee has proposed to order a motion for consideration to the Committee on Petitions, as a committee on guarantee. Does anyone have a proposal for another guarantee committee? It's not like that. That is so, Mr Schwarz. Calm down, Mr Schwarz will make a motion. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u34	Good evening, colleagues, Vice-President. I was expecting a constitutional committee. He wasn't, so I suggest it. The Constitutional Committee, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u35	Okay, it's a counterproposal against how the organizational committee suggested it. Anyone else? My colleague, Marek Benda, another guarantee committee. We're only talking about guarantee committees. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u36	I don't think we're just talking about a guarantee committee, but correct me. We will appoint a guarantee committee, but at the same time we can order more committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u37	But that, Mr. Ambassador, is what I was going to propose under the Rules of Procedure Act. When we decide on the guarantee committee, we only submit proposals to other committees under the Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u38	Then I'll check in later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u39	Thank you. I knew you'd know this text of the Rules of Procedure. We will now decide first on the counter-proposal, i.e. that the guarantee committee should be a committee of constitutional law. We will decide in the vote order number 62, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 62, from 158 for 123, versus 16. The Guarantee Committee has become a Committee of Constitutional Law. We will now discuss proposals which other committees the Chamber of Deputies wants to order. Since the Organising Committee has proposed to order the Committee on Petitions, I take it as a voteable proposal submitted to the House. Who else? A colleague of Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u40	I think, given what we're experiencing, I said I wouldn't personify it, with the Ombudsman, that it's becoming a matter of our security, so I suggest we order it to the Defence and Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u41	Ambassador, I'm going to ask you to clarify. The committees are separated. Tell me which one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u42	I forgot you had enough to separate him. Just for security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u43	Yes, the Security Committee. The chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek will surely enrich the number of committees. I'm asking the House for peace. Mr Miroslav Kalousek has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u44	This clarification by Mr Benda seemed highly discriminatory to me, so I also propose a defence committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u45	Okay. Mrs Jana Černochová certainly comes up with a proposal from the next committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u46	Sure, Mr. Vice-President. By mentioning the scarf affair here, I think it would certainly have something to say to the school committee on this subject to extend Mrs Ombudsman's powers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u47	Committee on Science, Education, Youth and Sports. [[Noise in the hall.]] I made a note of it. Committee on Petitions, Committee on Defence, Committee on Security and Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Mrs. Maxová called in. With a point of fact, Mr President. Madame, before you have the floor, I will indeed ask the House for peace! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u48	Thank you. I would like to ask the House to order this press to the permanent committee on family, equal opportunities and human rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u49	Yes, a permanent commission extending to the petition committee. Please, Chairman Pavel Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no, I am not going to propose a commandment to the agricultural committee, as I hear it, I would consider it rigorous. I just want to point out that recently, when we started discussing the intuitive energy law, and we ordered it into many committees - with the purest intentions, of course, right? - then it turns out that it's a path that leads to a complex process of law enforcement. I fear that even here it would be more difficult and that the result would not be at all consistent with what we wish for, let alone what citizens want. I will not propose any commandment to the committee, I just want to advertise that the KSČM parliamentary club will vote only for the commandment of the committee to the petitioner, where it undoubtedly belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u51	Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, then Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, then Mrs. Hnyková. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u52	First, a short reaction to the previous speaker. I don't really see the connection between the Ombudsman's office and the petition committee. I don't see it. I don't know if the Ombudsman has sent a petition to the petition committee to discuss it, but I'm willing to support it in the context of good relations within the Chamber of Deputies. I'm suggesting that we extend the deadline by 30 days, because obviously it will only be discussed by the guarantee committee, and I think it's reasonable. [[unintelligible]] That is, I am making a proposal to extend the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u53	There. Okay, I made a note of that. That's problematic. With a point of fact - Mr President, if you would prefer to make a factual remark to the Chair of the Committee of the Petition Member Rujbrová? [[Kalousek]] Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u54	Mr President, Mr Stanjura has not been here that long. If you would be so kind as to tell him that the Committee on Petitions has dealt with the topic of the Ombudsman since 1999, when the relevant law was adopted. It discusses and cooperates with the Ombudsman on all human rights issues that are part of other reports or bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u55	prosit, now Mr Kalousek, then Mrs Hnyková and then Mr Kubíček. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u56	Sorry, I don't want to keep this up anymore. I just wanted to calm my colleague Kováčik, who expressed his concern that we should vote in the way that citizens want. I am convinced, Mr President, that citizens do not want anything on this subject, that they do not give a damn about it. Here, Minister Dienstbier wishes something, the coalition is playing it in the context of some solidarity, opposition citizens want to reject it because they see it as pointless, and outside the walls of this institution, it doesn't matter to anybody.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u57	So that was the opinion of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Now, Mrs Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u58	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I would ask that this be allocated to the Social Policy Committee as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u59	Committee on Social Policy. That's what a post is supposed to look like. Please, Mr. Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose an assignment to the committee of scrutiny.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u61	Which committee? I didn't hear you. The inspection committee, yes. Thank you. The only proposal I cannot put to vote on, I think the President of the ODS club sees me because the proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion can only be tabled in the debate and it has been tabled outside the debate. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, various MPs shouting something.]] But that too is the same under the Rules of Procedure Act. prosit, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u62	Thank you, Mr President. The procedure with the number of these proposals has become so complicated that we need to consult and consider it. I'd like a two-hour recess for a meeting of the MP's club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u63	I understand that, but believe me or not, although the question was whether the time limits for discussion should also be the subject of negotiations on the commandments of committees, the House did not come to this, or we left it in the original text in the Rules of Procedure. If you had asked one of the ministers to open the debate, it would have been easier, because I would have liked to have it voted on, but you know that I would have violated the Rules of Procedure, and you certainly do not expect me to do that. Before the break at the TOP 09 meeting, the chairman of the ODS Club? She doesn't want to, okay. In that case, I have no choice but to comply with the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club and to suspend negotiations until 18.25 hours. [[There are screams of disapproval.]] Half? Sorry, sorry, that's delicious. So 17.55 hours. I understand you're asking for an hour. [[Voices from the O.R. correct that the request was two hours.]] I apologize to Mr Kalousek. I really understood an hour. My colleague speaks very quietly and I didn't hear it in the noise. So, yes, thank you. I have no choice but - before I interrupt the meeting and announce a break for the TOP 09 meeting, I will let the Committee Chairs who convene their committees or subcommittees speak, and then I will announce tomorrow's agenda for the meeting to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Your colleague Tejc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u64	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I would like to ask that Members of the Constitutional Legal Committee meet at the piano, as we agreed, after the end of the meeting, which is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u65	Okay. Are you still Minister Dienstbier? He doesn't want to. Mr. Chairman of the Kolovratník. [[Members are starting to break up.]] I haven't announced a break yet, ladies and gentlemen! I will, of course, declare it, but I said when I passed the Rules of Procedure Act, that is, when I announced tomorrow's agenda. President of the Election Commission Martin Kolovratník. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u66	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, from the Election Commission, I am declaring a new deadline for the submission of proposals for amendments to the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. It is a traditional, regularly recurring deadline, so the new deadline for changes in organs is until this Friday, April 3rd until 12 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u67	Thank you, Prime Minister. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u68	I'm begging the MP's club right now at the club's premises. The apparatus please provide refreshments, we have a two-hour discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-002-030.u69	Thank you. If no one else has any organizational announcements, then before I call a break for the TOP 09 meeting, I'll inform you that we'll meet tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. and we'll start with a block of points from the third reading. That is paragraphs 81, 82 and 84, and we would continue with paragraphs 67, 27 and 129, which has been included today. Other points will be subject to possible negotiations tomorrow between 9 and 9.30. Thank you. Have a nice evening, and I'm done with today's meeting day.
