ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation and on Amendment and Supplement to Act No. 468/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended, as amended, and Act No. 256/2001 Coll., on burial and amending certain laws, as amended /house print 363/ - second reading We have already discussed this point on Wednesday 29. 4. The item was interrupted in Mr Komárek's report and I therefore ask whether Mr Komárek wants to continue or to submit his report again. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u2	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to turn your attention briefly to the advertising regulation law. I was forced to interrupt my speech, my intelligence report. I'll recap briefly. I have introduced you to the amendment that the electoral committee stood up for. In short, it is legislative regulation, then the possibility to track down the contracting entity's questionable or defective advertising and the prohibition of advertising on illegal competitions and betting. Now, to the essentials of what I'm sure other colleagues will come forward to do. The Committee has dealt thoroughly with the fact that, in accordance with European law, a ban on hidden and subliminal advertising has fallen out of advertising regulation in the amendment. A number of Members believe that, even if this is required of us by European law, that this is wrong and that it can be misused. In this sense, Mr Korte tabled an amendment which did not just go through the tightest ratio on the Constitutional Committee. I presume that Mr Korte will bring him back, and it is really in the House how he will deal with this. I just want to stress that, in addition to the opinion of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the electoral committee has requested the breakdown of the Parliamentary Institute, which also clearly proves, or quite clearly, that it is not really possible to have the regulation of hidden and subliminal advertising in this law. That it can only be contained in consumer protection laws and unfair commercial practices. So under this impression, we made a decision. But as I say, there was no definite consensus at this point. That's all my news report. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u3	Thank you to the rapporteur. I will ask him to take a seat at the rapporteur's table, and I am opening a general debate, which was the first to which the honourable Member came forward... sorry to the honourable Member, priority rights are priority rights. First of all, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, just a few comments on the bill. I think that, in principle, we do not have any fundamental comments, but I would like to draw attention to certain things, and this is, in particular, the proposed amendment in Section 6, which concerns the dissemination of advertising on lotteries, etc., as the whole press is, where, in our view, this text is inserted into the bill unsystematically and illogically, because I think it does not belong there either from a legislative legal point of view and provides completely unjustified and unsystematically privileged repressive effects against advertisers on this type of service. But worst of all, it actually exposes advertisers, whether they're press publishers, television, radio stations, Internet advertising operators, etc., to the position of detectives who, if they want to spread ads to any lottery or similar game, will have to examine whether it's allowed, and actually review the legality of the business of the entity that comes to them with a request for advertising. At the same time, the advertisers will be, i.e. both the publishers of the press, television, radio stations and those who distribute Internet advertising also act as a judge who will assess whether the business of the lottery operator is legal or not, in a legal area where the state itself is not sure whether certain services are or are not legal. I can state as a long discussion of lawyers without a single opinion whether lottery services can be provided in the Czech Republic on the basis of a licence issued in another state of the European Union or whether services provided on servers abroad, but in the Czech language, already violate our law or not. In addition, the courts have already judged several times that the website operator is not responsible for their content or that the advertiser is not obliged to review the legality of the advertising provider's business, because it is the basic obligation of the contracting authority itself and the advertiser does not have any special powers such as. State control authorities or law enforcement authorities that would allow him to do so. In some exchange advertising systems that are used on the Internet, it is not possible to control this type at all. Punishing advertisers for non-compliance with such imposed obligations, moreover, according to the draft law by significant financial sanctions, is, in our opinion, contrary to the constitutional law of the Czech Republic and the proposed amendment should be dismissed. The same applies to § 8 (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) At the same time, I would like to say that the amendment tabled by Mr Chvojka makes the situation even worse, in our opinion, especially with regard to those who process advertising, because it makes them responsible for processing advertising for unauthorized lotteries. I understand that, the attempt to fight illegal advertising, especially for lotteries and similar games. But to control and enforce this should be done by the state and not by those who spread advertising. Because it really is not in their power, and it is quite possible, according to this proposal, that they will receive high financial sanctions and actually perform the role of state without having the control mechanisms that I was talking about. So I recommend to my colleagues that we release this to address this issue in another law and to specify and specify the role of the state and its control mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u5	I thank Mr Stanjur. Another duly registered member is Mr Daniel Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning. This amendment to the Act on the regulation of advertising and other laws, I will not calculate it, is the implementation of the European Parliament Directive on unfair commercial practices towards consumers in the internal market. The proposer claims that this implementation is coerced by the European Commission's criticism of legislation in the Czech Republic, which "crosses the framework of maximum harmonisation, i.e. regulates beyond its scope' and therefore everything that goes beyond this directive based on the so-called the principle of full harmonisation must be removed from the legal order of the Czech Republic. On this basis, the amendment repeals the ban on advertising based on subliminal perception, which is Amendment Point 4, and advertising hidden, which is Amendment Point 6. The appellant also claims that the contested provisions of the Advertising Regulation are contained elsewhere, i.e. in the Consumer Protection Act. Yes, theoretically, it's elsewhere, that is. in passages about misleading advertising, but unfortunately the plaintiff did not bother to move it elsewhere verbis expressis. The relevant provisions are very vague, so the court may decide in three, five, seven years that a misleading device has been used in this and that particular case, perhaps. Please, I am not satisfied with this condition. This positive legal interpretation completely defies common sense. There can be no doubt that advertising based on subliminal perception, regardless of the fact that some psychological schools question its effectiveness, is unfair. Just because her concierge, a consumer, can't stop her from turning her off, changing her mind, just because she doesn't know about her. Also, advertising hidden is unfair. Not only is it unfair, it's a fraud, and it's a fraud that triples. First of all, it's a fraud against a consumer, because he pretends he's not advertising, though he is. And it is statistically proven that the consumer is willing to trust an objective message in the order of tenfold more than a message to advertising. Secondly, it's a fraud against competition, which pays honestly for advertising. Thirdly, it is a fraud against media owners who are thus missing income from regular advertising. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the government therefore had, if it is obliged to adopt a harmonisation directive with all hair, the passages concerned about the prohibition of subliminal and hidden advertising experienced in our legal order to move really verbis expressis elsewhere, i.e. to the Consumer Protection Act. I therefore propose to keep both bans in our legal order, because it is the only way to force the government to make an amendment to both laws, the Act on Advertising Regulation and the Consumer Protection Act, and it has done so in the intensities that I am talking about. And I call on you to support this proposal for these reasons. I would remind you that you did not commit yourself to voting according to the European Commission's wishes, but you committed yourself to voting in accordance with your best knowledge and conscience. And this amendment goes against not only common sense, as has been said, but also this promise of yours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u7	Thank you, Mr Korte. Another duly registered member is Mr Jan Chvojka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u8	Good morning, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to clarify briefly the reason why I tabled an amendment to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. We have already dealt with this matter on the electoral committee, where my proposal in the sense that not only should be prosecuted by those who distribute unauthorized advertising for lotteries, but also by those who process or enter it, so my proposal was supported by the electoral committee. I am of the opinion that not only the dissemination of unauthorized ads on lotteries, but just the entry and processing should be dealt with by analogy, as when we affect not only those who sell drugs but also those who produce them. The proposal was supported unanimously by the Election Committee, but the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is the Guarantee Ministry for this press, recognised the need to complete small legislative matters, which is why we have completed the amendment with my contribution and I am now submitting it. So, in substance, it remained the same as it was approved on the electoral committee, only small legislative technical things are being completed there. I will then sign up for it in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u9	I thank Mr Chvojka. The next envoy is Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also have a few comments on this bill. I also take the view that the petitioner is trying to implement the European directive, and in the explanatory memorandum, he reasons why certain provisions concerning advertising hidden and based on subliminal perception are being repealed. However, I think that these relevant provisions should remain in the law. I therefore propose that paragraphs 4, 6 and 15 be deleted from the bill. These are specifically sentences that say that advertising based on subliminal perception is prohibited. Such advertising for the purposes of this Act means advertising that would affect the subconscious of a natural person without knowingly perceiving it. It's forbidden to advertise hidden. Such advertising means advertising for the purposes of this Act, where it is difficult to distinguish that it is advertising, in particular because it is not designated as advertising. Furthermore, I suggest that other similar provisions be deleted, e.g. advertising that focuses on people under 18 years of age. Advertising shall not recommend the purchase of goods or services using their inexperience or credence and encourage them to persuade their parents or legal representatives or other persons to purchase goods or services. For these reasons, I believe that the new proposal does not solve better these specific problems that have been addressed in the existing draft law, so I propose that the amendments that address this issue be deleted and left to the original text, because it is better. Furthermore, I would like to touch on the provisions of advertising for medicinal products for human use aimed at the general public. The ministry has somehow forgotten that one provision of this relevant paragraph is in complete conflict with the European directive, with European law. I have the opinion of Dr. Jan Vavrečka from the Department of Corporate European Law University of Economics Prague, which says: European Union law provides for a general ban on advertising of all medicines with medical prescription against the general public. This prohibition also applies to the advertising of all vaccines. The only exception to this prohibition is so called. advertising of vaccination events against the lay public approved by the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic. [[10.00 hours]] The Czech Republic has made a key exception to Directive 2001/83/EC in a clearly different way. The advertising regulation law does not provide for an exception to advertising, or promotion of vaccination events, but an exception to advertising, and therefore allows the promotion of vaccines used in vaccination events. It has clearly been confused with its own subject matter of this exception to Union law. Advertising of specific vaccines, so-called Brand advertising against the lay public is inadmissible and is prohibited in many Member States of the European Union, e.g. in Germany, Austria, France, Finland, the United Kingdom. Only vaccination events as such can be promoted, i.e. in a manner of professionally defined and well-defined national population vaccination projects. In the Czech Republic, the approval of vaccination events is carried out instead of the approval of events for quite specific vaccines, I would point out, and these events are not explicitly given by the Ministry of Health any professional content at all, just a time interval. Furthermore, it is of high importance that the advertising of the vaccine is largely misleading. Very often, in lay consumers, it gives the impression of a certain effect that has not yet been scientifically proven. In advertising they are purposefully confused so-called. partial results for the vaccine's own protective effect, something completely different in medicine. This was pointed out in particular in 2010 by the Chief Health Board in France, which described the advertising of Silgard for HPV viruses as misleading simply because it strongly indicates the effect of protection against cervical cancer in vaccinated girls twenty to forty years, but no one has ever scientifically shown that twenty to forty years in the indicated range will ever happen. A completely identical problem has all advertising for relatively new vaccines that offers efficacy in vaccinated people for a long period or even for a lifetime. There is no scientific evidence of such claims because they cannot exist in principle at all. Therefore, advertising of the characteristics of specific vaccines and their utility value is even more controversial and more conflicting than with the usual prescription drugs, where it remains generally forbidden to the general public. In the Czech Republic, two actions are brought against the possibility of advertising vaccines against the general public and against non-formal implementation of EU law by the Czech Republic. Therefore, I draw attention to this problem and submit a proposal to amend the relevant provision when the original version of § 5a in paragraph 1. Article 3 (3) is replaced by the following: 2 shall not apply to medicinal products for human use used in a vaccination operation approved by the Ministry of Health. Compared to the European Union Regulation, this provision should read: 2 shall not apply to vaccination events approved by the Ministry of Health. Thus, there are no specific medicinal products, specific vaccines. Furthermore, I would like to briefly touch on the advertisement to support the donation of human tissues and cells. This draft law states in Section 5c that advertising supporting the donation of human tissues or cells for a financial reward or other comparable benefit is prohibited. Furthermore, advertising concerning the need or availability of human tissues and cells intended for human use, which may serve to obtain financial gain or other comparable benefits, shall be prohibited. Paragraphs 1 or 2 shall be without prejudice to the provision of information and the prohibition of advertising and advertising under the Act governing the execution of transplantations. I just want to add that this paragraph is being circled by the fact that there is advertising everywhere, only a word of donation for a reward is replaced by financial compensation for donation. This, I think, is a complete circumvention of this paragraph, and it is also necessary to amend this particular paragraph, which must be drawn up and prepared in such a way that the intention of the law is evidently fulfilled and not to lead to circumvention of this law. These are my comments and, at the same time, I am also reporting to a detailed debate where I will sign up to the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u11	I thank Mr Hovorka. The next enrollment is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that the government's proposal is also dealing with the issue of election campaigns. In my opinion, however, not enough. It does not solve the problem of large-scale advertising in election campaigns, namely billboards. After discussions with a number of colleagues, I have come to the conclusion that political billboards are an advantage that we could say goodbye to. In my amendment, therefore, I propose a ban on their spread from the time of the election to the end of the vote. Why? On the one hand, I believe that there will be considerable savings in the resources of political parties and movements, which can then be spent in a more meaningful way, e.g. their direction towards the preparation of better conceptual materials, greater and deeper cooperation with experts or other desired activities. Furthermore, I believe that the ban on political billboards will be positively reflected in the character of public space, which is now literally ruining billboards, often not only before the elections, but also many months after the elections. Last but not least, the approval of this amendment will contribute to road safety. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal tabled is an expression of my conviction that the decisive role in political competition should be played in particular by the quality of the ideas and the refinement of the programming documents than by the kind and persuasive smile on how many billboards candidates are able to conjure. I will sign up for my amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the Minister if he could answer the question that I raised in the general debate, so that I can possibly respond in detail: In what way does the appellant imagine that advertisers will examine the issue of the authorisation and legality of the advert for lottery, as I mentioned in Section 6. 'Cause I really don't think it's in their power to actually take a responsible look at this. Maybe I don't have enough information. So I would ask the Minister if he could answer that question, as he imagines, that this responsibility - because these are the tasks that advertisers must perform and are under sanctions - what tools and resources they can come out of, so that illegal advertising - and I agree that illegal advertising is to be combated - can find out that they are not sanctioned for something they have not been able to track or influence. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u15	Thank you, honourable Member. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been summoned by President Stanjura, but I would, of course, have responded without his initiative. I see these comments on the fact that there is a certain grey zone, especially if, in some way, the source of the lottery advertising is from abroad, from the EU, and there is not necessarily a simple finding. On the other hand, to completely resign from the fact that the subject will claim anything and will not care about what it is claiming, because at least from the Czech Republic it is somehow detectable, if it has permission, and if there is a compromise on how to solve EU advertisers, we will look before the meeting of the Gesture Committee. That's the point. I would also like to respond to other matters of Mr Korte and Mr Hovorka. I would like to assure them both through Mr President that my interest, the interest of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, is also to combat unfair advertising, subliminal advertising, misleading behaviour, with all these things, and it is certainly not an interest to be allowed. The debate is about something else. The debate is about whether in this law it is called. gold payment or duplication, because the basic law where these things should be dealt with is consumer protection law No. 634/1992 Coll., which happens to be discussed at first reading by three points further and where some amendments are proposed on these matters. And I think that if there is a feeling that they are not sufficient, then the initiative needs to be reflected in the Consumer Protection Act rather than in this Advertising Act, which we are discussing at the moment, because that is where it belongs and there it will be discussed again. However, I would like to point out that, as with other laws, not everything is in the hands of this honorable congregation. Of course, there is also part of the clarification of laws in the hands of courts of various levels, including European courts, which create case-law as to how the law is applied in practice. As regards the proposal to limit drug advertising for vaccinations approved by the Ministry of Health, we will comment on this on the Gesture Committee after consulting the relevant Ministry. And I must say that Mrs Kovářová's proposal is very inspiring. I, too, wish that the quality of ideas and elaborate programmes should be decided in the political struggle, but this honourable body will decide on this proposal by voting, because this is a purely political decision on how to stand up to it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u17	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u18	I consider Mrs Kovářová's proposal to be very interesting, but I would like to argue with a certain part of the reasoning, namely that it will contribute to greater road safety. It won't, because if the politicians aren't there, there'll be someone else on the billboards. And I have to say with near certainty that none of us politicians are attractive enough to interfere with driving more than Jaromír Jágr or Simona Krainová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u19	I thank Mr Komárek. Fortunately, he only talked about politicians, not politicians. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u20	I thank the Minister for his answer, but what we agree on is that the grey zone or advertising of illegal things must be combated. I am merely asking why they should be spreading and, according to Mr Chvojka's proposal, processors. This means some graphic designer, a small graphic studio gets tasked with breaking the text, putting it in some graphic form and under this bill he too will be punished. I'm asking why we're not going towards the contracting authority. These are those who deliberately violate the law, because whoever enters it has to know whether or not what he wants to promote has permission from the state. And in that, you have our full support to point it in the direction of the contracting authority, not those in the middle. And I don't understand the processor, the graphic designer. Could it be a natural person or a legal person - a graphic studio, why should it be punished for breaking and preparing some...? After all, when someone wants to edit something graphically, we can't really ask the studio to check that the content is, for example, on a lottery that is allowed. Moreover, the problem with the EU and the fact that many, in particular, Internet companies or companies operating Internet betting, are based in attractive countries such as Malta, a member of the EU. And what the Minister said. I think there's a little misunderstood or misunderstanding about what a gessional committee can do. Of course, the Gospel Committee can debate this for a long time, but it can only adopt recommendations for the House on the proposed amendments. We can't think of anything there, as the minister said. We can't think of anything there. We either say yes or no there, we recommend it to the House and the House decides somehow, but we're not gonna change anything about this committee. At the very least, amendments can be made today, and the House could theoretically return the law hearing back to second reading, which we do not suggest because we do not think it is necessary. Just to explain that it's just not possible. Minister, if I may ask you again, and I'm not really calling you up if you say you won't answer, then I'm not going to be at any expense - why aren't we aiming at the contracting authority? Why are we putting processors in there? I know it's a parliamentary proposal, virtually. an amendment by one of the Members, and it is not a proposal by the Ministry or the Government, but the government also proposes the enlargements. And you yourself admitted that, especially for those registered abroad in EU countries, it is very difficult. Okay, but if the law applies, no one, the state authorities won't care if it was complicated or uncomplicated or simple, whether they got the information, and they'll just say you were spreading advertising on the Internet, it's illegal, we don't care if you didn't find out, and they'll be subject to sanctions. And I find that problematic in the bill. But we understand that these practices need to be combated and combated. I'm sure you do. I just think it's better to do it with contracting because they just have to know whether or not they have a lottery allowed. It can't be that a company that wants some advertising message on the Internet doesn't know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u21	Now with priority rights, the Minister, after him Mrs Kovářová. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u22	I would like to respond to President Stanjura's intervention and quote § 6b para. 3. It says that the processor cannot be relieved of liability for the content of the advertising distributed by reference to its award by the contracting authority, and then it continues unless it is data which he is unable to assess with all his effort. And all we're talking about here is the vagueness of this provision, which puts the final decision in court practice, which sets out what it is all efforts made to find out the truth. This is, of course, interesting for the debate, but I don't think it's completely fatal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Kovářová, now duly applied for. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u24	I would like to respond to Mr Komárek's objection to reducing or not reducing road safety in the event of a ban on political advertising. In the Czech and Moravian countryside, if you have the opportunity to ride it, you can see a number of vacant billboards and enter political advertising creates artificial demand. I mean, if this demand weren't, there would definitely be fewer of these billboards. If this is the only reservation of Mr Komárek to my amendment, I am glad and I think I can perhaps persuade him to vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Chvojka was the first to enter into a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u26	Thank you. As I announced in the general debate that I would submit an amendment to sign up for it, I hereby sign up for an amendment which is registered under 2250 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u27	I thank Mr Chvojka. Another in a detailed debate is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I am putting forward amendments to the House of Press 363 on the regulation of advertising. One. Amendment points 4, 6 and 15 are deleted in the draft law. Two. In Section 5a, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 Newly reads: "Result. 3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not apply to vaccination events approved by the Ministry of Health.' Just to justify it, I read it in detail here. I'm just explaining that specific medicinal products are being removed from the law. So there will be an exception to vaccination events approved by the Ministry of Health, but not to specific medicinal products, i.e. specific vaccines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u29	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another in a detailed debate is Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to apply to the amendment introduced under number 2267 in the system. In short, I'd like to justify his submission. In the general debate concerning the parliamentary proposal of colleagues Plíšek and Heger, which also covered the Act on Advertising, especially the relationship between a doctor and a pharmaceutical company, I justified this amendment concerning misleading advertising for unregistered products, so-called. food supplements that lead them to manipulate people who are in a life-threatening situation, under severe stress, such as cancer-diagnosed cancer, and receive a suggestion or advertising that this product can cure or stimulate their immune system, etc. Since this is really a very misleading advertising, manipulating people, it is mind-blowing, so I proposed this amendment, which regulates the opinions of advertising, which can only be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u31	I thank Mr Vyzula. Another enrollment is Mr Daniel Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u32	Thank you, Mr President. My amendment repeals Amendment No 4, i.e. launch of a ban on advertising based on subliminal perception, and amendment point 6 concerning a ban on advertising hidden. Although it is only these two points, this change forced further continuity and in the references of further and further changes, so the total points in my amendment are 34. But it really concerns only these two. However, when we vote on the third reading, I point out that my proposal must be voted on as a whole. I have put the reasons in the general debate and I am referring to this amendment, which is included in the system under number 2119. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u33	Thank you, Mr Korte. The last one so far entered in the detailed debate is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u34	I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is included in the system under number 2394.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u35	Thank you, ma'am. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u36	I still have an amendment directly in the debate so that we can debate in committee what the Minister has promised. So I will make an amendment that will concern two amendments. This is a matter that we discussed in the general debate, which I have justified. Firstly, we would launch an amendment point 18, which concerns the obligation of advertisers to verify the legality of the business of those who enter it in the area of lotteries. The proposal is - the original amendment point 18 reads: In § 6b para. 2 at the end of the text of the first sentence, the words "and for the dissemination of lottery advertising and other similar games which have not been authorised or notified under special legislation" shall be added. So I suggest we launch this amendment point. In the context of this proposal, I propose to amend the amendment point 45, which at the moment sounds that two letters o) and p are added. Point (o) shall read: "widen the advertisement for lottery and other similar games not authorised or not notified under a special regulation or" and then it shall be p). So in the new version of Amendment 45 without letter (o), it would read: "In § 8a para. the following point is added: (o) which is: contrary to § 7a para. In the event of a request by the supervisory authority and within the time limit set by the supervisory authority, it shall not disclose the details of the person who ordered the dissemination of the advertisement.'; To explain: I merely quoted in the same wording as in the government proposal, I just assigned it correctly in alphabetical order the letter o), which I propose to interrupt. I also consider this to be some kind of compromise proposal for the debate that will take place either on the guarantee committee or at the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u37	I thank Mr Stanjur. If no one else reports for a detailed debate, I will conclude a detailed debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. [[They weren't interested.]] If I do not see any motion to return the law or shorten the deadline, I will end second reading of this bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-005-003.u38	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will proceed according to the revised agenda, item number four. Thank you, Minister Mládek, for being ready.
