ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u1	95. Members of Soňa Marková, Stanislav Grospič, Stanislav Mackovík, Miroslav Opálka and Josef Šenfeld's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended /house print 393/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as press 393/1. I prosit the plaintiff of Mrs Soňa Marková. Before I give her my word, I have to read my apologies. Mr Fiedler extends his apology until 15 o'clock, Mr Sedláček between 14 and 15 o'clock for work reasons. Mr. Mr. Štětina is here, so your apology is canceled. Mr Kudela for today's work for reasons of work, and the last one is President Mihola from 14.43 hours for reasons of work. Now, please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, allow me to wish you a good afternoon and, at the same time, to briefly justify the bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code. I recall one important thing today that this meeting will mainly concern the first three days of sickness, which, as you know, has ceased to be paid at the time of the ODS, KDU-ČSL and the Green Party under Mirek Topolánek's leadership since January 2008. At the beginning of 2009, Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, according to which sickness insurance is for employees only from the 15th calendar day of temporary incapacity for work or quarantine. The Labour Code therefore provided for the reimbursement of compensation for the staff member's lost income for the first 14 days of incapacity for work, which is paid by the employer from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013. Then this period of compensation was temporarily extended by the employer from 14 days to 21 days, with no compensation being granted in the first three days of the illness, which falls on the employee's working days. [[15.00 hours]] This means that this legislation has re-established the time limit of the card in the form of non-payment of the first three working days in the disease. The result of all this, i.e. such an effort to save at all costs, is a condition where the vast majority of employees remain unemployed for the first three days of incapacity for work without any means, but their obligation to pay insurance has remained unaffected. The particularly adverse impact was or is on employees with lower incomes, socially weak, especially single mothers. Employees are thus forced to draw on the disease either by their vacation, which is in sharp conflict with the purpose of the holiday, or, and I think that it is worse, their diseases pass without a doctor's visit. This opens the door to the spread of certain diseases among co-workers and subsequently causes more health damage in the future. This can, of course, affect a significant increase in the cost of treatment. So, if I sum up, the state on the one hand saves, but on the other hand they can increase, and they will certainly increase, the cost of the health system. In order to eliminate the above injustices, we submit this proposal as a KSČM amendment to the Labour Code. The purpose and purpose of this is to abolish the institute called. the probationary period during which, in the event of temporary incapacity for work, the person in employment is not entitled to compensation for salary or salary. I would like to point out that the government currently ruling, i.e. social democracy, KDU-ČSL and YES 2011, has not yet submitted its draft law, although this is part of the government's programming declaration. We know only the proposal of one of the senators, which was already mentioned at the end of 2014, but has not yet been discussed by the Senate and has not been transferred to the Chamber of Deputies. That is why the KSČM came forward with its own proposal in January 2015, in February, the government took a neutral position to address this issue by means of a government proposal. Unfortunately, we have the end of September 2015 and no government proposal has yet been submitted to this Chamber of Deputies. I merely remind you that on the same day that the KSČM submitted this bill, the Prime Minister of the government also commented in the media on the need to re-establish the payment of sickness in the first three days of the disease. So, according to his statement, he's behind this proposal. The unions, the trade unions, also expressed themselves. That is why we expect this proposal to go through the first reading and we will be able to draw up a bill that will eventually eliminate the minor shortcomings that are being set aside for this proposal. Just for all the formalities to be fulfilled, I note that this bill... [[The President requests peace on the right side of the hall. Incomprehensible screams from the right side.]] Well, we teachers and teachers would see it a little differently, but still. Thank you. The draft law is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, it is not contrary to the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound, nor to the generally accepted principles of international law. The proposal also complies with European Union law. It has no impact on the environment. The impact on the business environment, which will undoubtedly be offset in part, is because the fact that an employee will not be forced to go to work even at the time of illness, prevents the spread of diseases in the workplace, and thus the employer will not have to deal with such a massive decline in productivity at the time of the epidemic. In terms of gender equality, the proposal is neutral, as legislation is the same for both sexes. The important thing is that the proposal has an impact on state and other public budgets, but since it will have the same effect as in the event of an impact on the business environment, it cannot be considered essential. However, the magnitude of these impacts cannot be accurately quantified here either, as there are likely changes in the patterns of behaviour of the workers concerned, which cannot be fully quantified. The draft law generally has positive social implications because it increases the real protection of workers' social rights and provides them with security under Article 30 (2) of the Treaty. 1 Charter of Fundamentals and Freedoms in Short-term Diseases. For the above reasons, please support the bill and release for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u3	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Gabriela Pecková, to take the floor. I see. Do we have a rapporteur? Well, yes, you're right, Mrs Pecková is obviously excused on account of a foreign trip. Then we'll have to find another newsletter. I'm going to ask if anyone wants to take this role voluntarily. Mr. Chairman of the Social Committee himself? So, please, we will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur that Mr Zavadil will take this role instead of Mr Pecková. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? I remind those who are coming that this is a change in the rapporteur. The vote is 149, registered is 162, for 138, against no one. This proposal has been adopted and I ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u4	Thank you, Mr President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think I can say very briefly that even when I was in another chair and in another position, we always condemned and fought against the Karen period. koneckonců all, at one point, the Constitutional Court did what it did. So I believe that the motion to abolish the Karen age is absolutely correct. It's just a question of setting the rules. I mean setting the amount that employers or others would pay. As far as I know, there has been a substantial reduction in employers' payments to employment policy in the past, and that was a fairly decent amount for employers at the time, I believe it was about nine billion that they contributed to their wine, and yet the time of the card has remained as it is. [[15.10 hours]] So, personally, I'm gonna support the cancellation of the Karen's period. I think it would be appropriate for the Social Committee to go through this, too, and for us to talk about the rules that have not yet been discussed, but I suppose we would have talked about them in that committee. I am also curious because I have information that, in this or next week, certain agreements should take place on the ground of tripartite between employers and employees, because they are most concerned, and I myself am curious about what the agreement will be, and on the basis of this agreement, we can, not only here on the basis of the agreement, but we can contribute to this decision on how to deal with the card period. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. This is Mr. Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. On the contrary, I believe that this law contradicts equal access to insured persons, because it concerns primarily only those who are employed in employment relations under the Labour Code, and therefore, as such, I propose that we reject this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u7	Thank you. Please, Mrs Hnyková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. I would very much like you to support this amendment to the Labour Code. I would like to put in a very good word for the workers in social services and in health care, which are mentioned in the shift plan. To explain it to you: the shift plan is, if you have all the workers, it will be written for a whole year, that is, when a nurse like that comes out on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and she gets sick, she's actually home free this whole week. So I would very much intercede that this period of unpaid sickness should be abolished. I would very much like us to support this proposal and release it to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u9	Thank you. The next will be Mr. Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of the time is a very popular issue for left-wing Members. This was also the case in the last parliamentary term, especially Members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, who have argued since the beginning of the implementation of the deadline by reducing the employee's financial security in sickness and increasing the administration for both doctors, employers and social security administrations. I don't want to talk long, but maybe we need to go a little bit into history. The petitioner rightly stated that the time limit in the form of non-payment of the three first days of temporary incapacity was approved in 2008 and introduced definitively as of 1 January 2009. However, it should also be mentioned in this context that, since 1 January 2009, the rates of sickness insurance have also been reduced. That's not exactly what the petitioner said. Since 1 January 2009, directly employees have not paid any sickness insurance. And I note that before that, 31. 12. 2008 paid 1,1 % of the assessment base. Thus, sickness insurance is paid only by the employer, at 2,3%, and there has also been a reduction of 1%, which was mentioned by the rapporteur, although I do not know if it is just 9 billion savings. The Constitutional Court also took note of this fact, not only the introduction of the deadline, but also this fact, the reduction of insurance premiums. Even in the justification for his finding in 2012 on the proposal of 45 left-wing Members, especially Members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, he found no contradiction with constitutional order in the abolition of the Karen age. According to the Constitutional Court's reasoning, and I think it is good to mention this here, the introduction of the Karen period in itself is a sensible and even common measure in the European context. The Constitutional Court also noted that the total social situation of employees is also positively affected by the abolition of employees' obligation to pay sickness insurance premiums and other things. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common principle in insurance systems for a minor injury to be borne by the insured person himself, and the insurance system assures him of damage to a certain extent. In the field of sickness insurance, there is a minor loss of income for a short period of time. If we look back at this today, the introduction of the deadline for the card, the experts generally agree that the introduction of the period of the card with the follow-up to the adjustment of the amount of sickness insurance has brought positive effects. In fact, even the plaintiffs admit that this principle had a factual impact on the benefit to employers and - I quote precisely - "a controversial impact on the reduction of the number of sick leave. " Even on many numbers - and some here I will mention - which was published by the Czech Good Social Security, it has been shown that the incapacity for work has been reduced by almost half to the standard level in the European Union. I quote precisely from the development of basic indicators, from analysis or from information from the Czech Social Security Administration of basic indicators in the case of sickness insurance, that "the number of completed cases of temporary incapacity shows the highest decline of all three indicators. While in 2007, i.e. before the time limit was introduced, 2,800 thousand completed cases were reported, in 2012 it was less than half, around 1,200,000 completed cases of temporary incapacity. The number of hardened calendar days decreased by 45 per cent over the reference period. In 2007, there were 100 million hardened days, five years later in 2012, about 55 million sick days, i.e. about 46 million less sick days." The Communist Party is now coming in with an attempt to cancel the quarantine period. It is interesting that it does not come in this context with the proposal to renew the payment of sickness insurance to employees, because it was also linked to the cancellation of the time limit, and it does not even come with what was in force prior to the introduction of the time limit, that in the first three days the sickness was only 25 per cent of the basis of assessment. The bill, as it was submitted, assumes that, even in the first three days, the compensation would be 60 per cent of the so-called reduced assessment base. Well, I do not know what position the tripartite will take on this proposal, but coalition, and I say the Socialist Government has taken such a special position on this. It is a bit different than the rapporteur - the rapporteur - said, sorry. The government's opinion states that, generally speaking, the government supports the abolition of the time of the Karenary, but draws attention to the shortcomings of the proposed proposal, not to the fact that this should be determined by a government proposal. It is, of course, a matter of consideration - it is certainly evident from those numbers that occurred during that time, during the experience with the time of the card, to limit the abuse of short-term incapacity for work and also to reduce, of course, employers' sickness insurance costs, because this also involved a reduction of the sickness insurance. I am looking at this issue in such a way that, after a group of left-wing Members failed in the Constitutional Court in 2012, they are trying again with a legislative initiative. [[15.20 hours]] Members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia came up with this initiative - I don't know if the government will come up with such an initiative - but, at the same time, the proponents, I really think, do not see the positive effects that the introduction of the Karenary period has brought, as I have demonstrated on certain figures, nor do they see the fact that this institute is common in other countries of the European Union. We're no exception here. Many countries of the European Union have a deadline for the card. I therefore have no choice but to join my colleague Beznoska's proposal, and I also propose that the proposal be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u11	There is now one factual point, this is Mr Grospič, and then three priority rights, and that is in the order of Vice-President Bartošek, President Stanjura and rapporteur. Now, a factual remark, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the liberty of actually reacting for the petitioner to my previous speaker through Mr President. I think that we should not accept, and the Chamber of Deputies should not accept, that short-term illness is potentially abused by employees, and that the period of quarantine eliminates and relieves not only public health insurance systems, but, of course, also protects employers from those who want to get short-term leave on something else. I think that regardless of the Constitutional Court's decision, which did not say that there should be or should not be a quarantine period, that it is necessary to take account of the fact that the Constitutional Court also primarily did not say that the abolition of the time of the Karenary would be contrary to the rule of law, and I think that this is a legitimate requirement not only for trade unions and trade unions, but also for the interests of employees, that if they contribute to insurance systems, the first three days of loss of working incapacity should not be excluded from these insurance systems. That is the essence of this proposal. And I very much intercede for his support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u13	Now Vice-President Bartošek with priority rights and after him, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Personally, I think that the fact that the first three days of incapacity are unpaid was part of the reform steps, because in the Czech Republic there was real abuse of this institute and we have something that works. I'm afraid the only thing we're going to do by releasing the next reading is that we're going to unravel something that's functional and really led to the institute of the first three days of incompetents that... In a way, we were unique in Europe when there was abuse and overuse of these three days. But it needs to be said that they were not only employees, but also some businessmen who sent people to go sick in the short term because they didn't have a job for them. That means, I think that if we had to go back and reconfigure this tool, it would be wrong and we would be dealing again with something that we would have to fix in the future. I personally support the rejection of this press at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u15	Yes. President Stanjura and the rapporteur after him. Sorry. I am sorry, Mr President, I have overlooked two factual points. The first is Mr Grospič's remark, but that was the original one, so then only Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I wanted to respond to my colleague Grospič, so it is both. No one can say that short-term or what percentage of short-term work incapacity is abused and what percentage it really deserves. The fact is that short-term incompetence carries a risk of abuse, as the person is not controllable within two or three days. I know from my own experience because I also represented on the circuit as a practical physician. I know people went and tried it on me, because they said they needed to go somewhere forced to leave, and the employer didn't want to give them work incapacity, and they tried to talk to me. They didn't make a deal with me. Maybe they made a deal with someone. Of course, as a doctor, I know that saying I have gastrointestinal problems means some diarrhea, or that I just snapped and I can't move, there's no problem. And I know that these people were dating even saying on Wednesday: "Doctor, write it down by Friday, I'll be healthy by Friday, you can just end it for me." So I know the abuse is happening. Of course, the intention of the promoter, the risk of spreading infectious diseases in the workplace, means endangering our own health by crossing the disease, I understand, too, but I still see a greater risk of abuse. Perhaps it could be considered if there was a mechanism set up here so that the control of the patient could be the same day or the next day. But so far, as it works, I don't think that's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u17	Thank you. Mr. Stanjura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u18	Thank you for the floor. So the proposal is, according to the rapporteur, I have no reason to question them, about CZK 9 billion a year. And I want to ask Minister Dienstbier, I assume that the Government's position is presented by the Legislative Council of the Government, at least that's always been the case with the parliamentary proposals... [[An arrangement of gestures.]] Well, then, Secretary Marksová, it doesn't matter, one of the members of the government. Why are they so sloppy about the government's position? They don't mention anything about financial effects at all. This is an ideal or ideological view that when the right hand presents or when we present, well, as if we lack a semicolon, it is well described on eight pages, as it is legislatively technical, and very often it is said that the financial effects are not well calculated. We'll get to that point 105. I'll read you what's in the press, in case you forget, written on financial implications, to 9 billion according to the rapporteur's words. The authors write: The proposal has an impact on state and other public budgets, since it will have the same effect as in the case of impacts on the business environment, they cannot be considered essential. However, the magnitude of these impacts cannot be accurately quantified here either, as there are likely changes in the patterns of behaviour of the workers concerned, which cannot be fully quantified. In other words, it is 9 billion, the impact on public budgets will be the same as on the business sphere, but we do not know how much impact there will be on the business sphere. And what's the government's position on that? Not one letter! So either Secretary Marksová or Minister Dienstbier - I would like to know how the government assessed the impact that this is an integral part of the bill and a mandatory part. There's no talk of it at all. I want to ask the petitioners and the fire supporter of the rapporteur who will pay the 9 billion. Public budgets? Social security? Some mistakenly believe that sick leave is due from health insurance. I'm bohužel so. Or employers? And if employers, well, you're raising their taxes by $9 billion. That's all it is. That's what you have to say, and that's how you make decisions. But before we vote, I would like the petitioners, the rapporteur or a member of the government to explain to us how it is not a word in the government's position of 9 billion. Maybe they forgot. So I'll say it on the microphone, who's gonna pay for the $9 billion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u19	The rapporteur calls for words, but I must give priority to a factual remark. If I let go of the priority, then all three of them. Then I guess there's no point in that. I'll give you two minutes for President Kováčik with the facts, and then the priority rights will continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Grace, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I would like to point out to the debate whether we are able to concentrate on the main issue in some way. The main point is that the social impact of not paying sick for the first three days is particularly dramatic on the population groups mentioned by the petitioner, that is, on the socially weaker, on single mothers and also on chronically ill workers with lower incomes. We're talking about some kind of abuse here. Not exactly can be measured by any impact on the business sphere or on the state budget, but also because we are unable, even doctors are not able to quantify how many percent of the users are, really with the hand on the heart to say so, that yes, he abused it, while there is doubt, and this patient is really so seriously ill that he simply couldn't take advantage of it. We can't even number this. [[15.30 hours]] So let's talk about eliminating the social consequences, and we can certainly prove this by canceling the time limit, and let's also talk about the fact that the improvement in health, which will undoubtedly occur, maybe even the infectious situation in the workplace, can be the positive impact, both in the state budget and in the business sphere. After all, the proposal has been here long enough for some shifts to take place, and if we really want to implement the government's programming statement on this, let us also talk about the fact that there will be enough room at second reading to actually lead the debate seriously and adjust the proposal to suit all sides. I would really like the impact to be quantified - in addition to the state budget, also how many abusers there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u21	Thank you. Have a good afternoon and please take a microphone with Mr Bendl's point of fact, and then he will be prepared with Mr Stanjura's de facto. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would ask that a colleague of the previous speaker Pavel Kováčik look carefully at the figures, as it really looked in the situation before this regulation occurred, and what it looked like after it, and he will say that there are certainly some who are unfairly involved in this etc., but everyone is able to deal with the three-day illness, not serious illness, certainly with his employer himself, and the margo will therefore come up with an amount which probably the Minister or Minister Dienstbier will explain where the 9 billions. take it where appropriate. I'm convinced that if there's any 9 billion. The crowns we are to use, not to support these short-term diseases for three days, but for diseases the state clearly does not have funds for. There are clearly people who are sick, need more money, and the state is not willing to help them in the long run. Various sponsorship contributions are sought, etc. That's something I think is beneath. And that's where the funds, if they exist, should be directed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u23	Thank you and please to the microphone with Mr Stanjura, Mr Zavadil, and then Mr Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u24	I would also like to respond to President Kováčik's words in order not to draw attention. I wasn't talking about whether it's being abused or not. The nine billion. is an estimate of what would happen according to existing legislation, according to the current number, how much would it cost. This isn't a debate about whether or not someone's taking advantage of it. That's a different debate. And the real impact will be higher if you approve, because the number will grow. I am based on the figure said by the rapporteur, and this is without doubt based on the current number of patients in the first three days, where it is now zero and where it would apply. And he's not suggesting the 25 percent yet. Speaking of which, the truth is, if anyone doesn't take sick leave in our solidarity system, they're higher income groups because there's a limit to sick leave. We all know that. These people prefer to take vacations with longer diseases, because they would have a significant impact on family budgets, so that we don't forget in this debate that they don't all take the same when they're sick. That's the solidarity. And we can have fun some other time, whether she's tall or not. I think she's too tall. You know people in your neighborhood who have above-average salaries and who never take sick leave - they have mortgages, they have rents, and they can't afford to live in the long term unless the disease is really serious, from sickness insurance. But I was gonna say we're talking about the nine billion. They should be justified. That's not an estimate of whether or not someone's taking advantage of it. And it doesn't give me, it should be more impressed by government MPs when KSČM's chairman says: so do we want to fulfill the government's programming statement or not? So for us, I say we're not, we're in opposition. You're more than a semi-governmental party, so maybe you want to fulfill the government's programming statement. For us, I say we don't want to support him, maybe on reasonable grounds, but we don't feel like we're here to support a government statement. And I mean, it's not a government proposal, it's a opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u25	Thank you and please to the microphone Mr Zavadil with a point of fact, Mr Kováčik will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, 9 billion. I'm sorry, through yours, Zbyněk, to you. You were at those meetings where it was argued whether employers should pay for 14 days or not, and what they'll get for it. And what they get for it is just the extra nine billion. So the $9 billion has no government budget, no other business, but only the earnings of employers' groups were about $9 billion in this transaction. That's just to support the fact that they're not losing money, and that if they're gonna pay, and now I'm not gonna have fun if it's gonna be employers or someone else, those three days, that's just where the money is. The second thing is - you know, I'm sorry, through, to a colleague named Bendl. He is capable - in some cases you are right - but he is not capable in 90 percent. And now that you've come across it, he's still here when we're talking about abroad, many other countries where it's normal and normal that five,six,seven days have employees paid without having any tools. This isn't for us. This also needs to be taken into account. Yes, Zbyněk Stanjura is right, it concerns mostly higher groups. That's right. But it is also not good that they do not get sick, that they carry diseases to the environment in which they are. We agree on that. So just to be clear: Yes, it concerns higher groups, but for lower earning groups it is already very trivial and even there - and we had the statistics very good - what really happens is that they don't get sick, because even those few hundred crowns are quite important to them. So I don't care where this proposal comes from. Maybe I'm a little different from you. I don't really care where the proposals come from, but when they're meaningful, when they're social, I always support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u27	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone with Mr Kováčik's factual remark, Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the housenumers are tossed basically, because we are not able to think completely, and we are concerned with those, as I have already said and, as has been said in the presentation report, lower income categories, those who are really seriously socially affected by the fact that perhaps even slightly but even worse, they get sick and have no income for the first three days. And explain it to the mother of a single person or a person who takes roughly or hardly ten thousand clean. And instead, these people - that's why the numbers were so dramatically different - are forced to take a vacation to have some income, they are forced to have the first three days instead of being covered by the system, to take a vacation which, by the way, is intended for far other things. Plus the programming statement. That's where we read that the government parties are committed to solving this matter. And we just insist that, in this case, where we agreed that the government should do it, and because it doesn't, I dare say that we may be helping her, maybe we're replacing her a little bit, maybe there's not enough responsibility between the parties, or enough chances to agree between the parties, so we, as a KSČM, are pushing this social issue forward to make it easier for the government to fulfil this point of the programming statement. This is, among other things, the opposition role that KSČM fulfils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u29	I thank you, and now I beg you, Mr Stanjura, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u30	The rapporteur. I am opposed to the proposal not because of who put it forward, but because I consider it wrong and wrong. So even if the government did, I would argue the same way. With the numbers. From the presentation by the rapporteur, although I know that he is not a petitioner and is not responsible for this, it follows that he is counting on it to be a burden on employers. And to say, I don't care who pays the $9 billion, just make sure somebody pays it, so I miss that in the government's opinion! The government obviously doesn't care either. And if the state budget doesn't really say anything about it, if we don't raise the state insurance bill, ask if the $9 billion is missing or if we put it like this. [[15.40 hours]] If you're talking about social impacts, it's the proposed measure - and the government is writing very correctly - that doesn't concern soldiers, firefighters, policemen, etc. - that's all in the government's opinion, so I think again and better if you really want to enforce it. We are opposed, but the impact is significant in the order of billions and it is not possible for government Members to pretend that they do not care. I'm saying, if we're going to discuss other bills, then suddenly 9 billion blackouts are unstoppable. And it has the nature of taxes if the House approves. So say directly - and I therefore call on the members of the government who are in charge - we want to burden the business sector spending around 9 billion a year. That's what it's really meant, at least that's how I understood it. I didn't understand that it should be paid from a different system than those employers, and that's what the debate is about. And 9 billion isn't a marginal amount for the government to go quietly without a single letter sentence: we can't count it, somehow it will. That's just wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u31	Thank you. Now, I beg you, Mr Sklenák, in fact. After that, Mr Bendl will be prepared. It's all factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u32	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I have to turn against Mr Stanjura's words or defend the government when he said that the government doesn't care who pays. I think that the government's position on this issue is very responsible. If you look at the government's programming statement, with which the government came before this House and gained confidence, it says that the government supports the abolition of the Karen age, but wants an agreement in tripartite. So this is about the principle. The question is not whether sick leave is abused or what practice is, but the question is whether a person should be entitled to benefit from sickness insurance even in the first three days of the disease. We think so, and that is why I can say for our club that we support this proposal in the sense that it passes through the first reading, that the debate may also be established between the social partners and that we can actually reach an agreement to be agreed with both employees and trade unions and employers. Now that I have the floor - I think my colleague Plzák here has offered his opinion from the practice of a doctor who visits patients and tries to get sick because they need to deal with some personal things. I wasn't born in the House either. Before I came here, I worked in places where I had subordinates. And the routine was that someone called in the morning, "I'm sick, I'm taking a vacation if I can." I said "yes, you can," and that was settled. The worse option was that the man wasn't on vacation, he came and spent the whole day over a cup of hot tea -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u33	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u34	Thank you. Excuse me, I'm just gonna finish the sentence: he was delivering germs. I think that's probably not what we want, and that's what this bill is going against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u35	Thank you. Please refer to Mr Bendl's microphone with a factual remark. Mr Stanjura will be prepared, then Mr Filip and then Mr Laudát will be prepared. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u36	Thank you for the floor. I can see that clearly no one is applying to those nine billion, but you should apply to them. It's not that easy to say "entrepreneurs will pay." You all need to know that, as a result of this, the business sector will deduct it from taxes and there will be some tax evasion. And perhaps the government should also calculate the large tax blackout, which means the impact of billions of crowns on the state budget. Here, in the government's assessment or the government's opinion, the flat sentence is "government in general supports the abolition of the probationary period in the first three days of incapacity for work, but at the same time it is forced to draw attention to the shortcomings of the proposed proposal, which, if not removed in the next legislative process, would result in unequal access to different persons doing dependent work'. It's kind of undressed. It's really more of an effort to get the Communists to go through with the proposal, because it's a business that needs to be done here... I'll say it looks like it's not on the outside, but actually, yeah, we'll make a deal. That's how I understood that the government was trying to reach KSČM. It's okay if they defend it in front of their constituents. So I do not agree with this, and I demand that you at least tell the public, if not for us here, Members, what the implications will be for the state budget, so that you have it calculated and say it effectively - yes, we want another 9 billion from the business sector, but it will mean some non-tax collection in the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u37	Thank you. I would now like to address Mr Stanjura's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u38	I'm just making a quick point. Many employers come to meet their employees in the sudden - and now I don't want to downplay it - nausea. It's such an ugly English word - sick day. In my opinion, I don't want to advise, I've never been a unionist, but that's the work of negotiating in a collective agreement so that the employer sick day can make it possible for his employees during the sudden nausea. Not immediately a change in legislation involving everyone, not just the socially weak. I mean, it's a good practice that many companies do, small, medium and large. And you're dealing with these cases you're talking about when you're just not feeling well and can't come to work for all sorts of reasons. Many companies already have it. It's voluntary, it's an education, and I think it's a way to deal with it. Not by changing legislation with an impact in the order of many billions. And it's not the only company, and I think each of you should know a company like that or know someone who's using it. It's on the trust of the employer and the employee that the sick day isn't being abused. Where that trust works, employees draw it when they have some sudden problem, and they don't lose their resources, they don't have to go to a doctor and they're able to get out of it in a day or two days, they just have it within a business, firm or institution. And that's a good practice, and that's what we should support, not change the laws right away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u39	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Filip, in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, I prefer to make a point of fact, I won't comment too much, because this is an off-course communication that we're doing here. The ODS and others don't want to admit that they were implementing quasi-tax. And here the false argument and the founding of the Constitutional Court continues. After all, it is either the principle of insurance, and they are the ones who hold on to the principles, and when it is insurance, so as soon as an insurance event occurs, it has been in force in the Czech Republic since 1924. That in 2012 the Constitutional Court, following a change of some constitutional judges, did something different than he did in 2008, respectively. 2009, that's another matter. And he also referred us in 2012 to make a political decision here. And all I'm saying is that either the insurance policy applies, and then there can't be a sickness benefit at the insurance event, or the tax policy applies, and then you can have something like that there for three or four days. But admit that either there's an insurance policy here, and then there can't be a cardinal period, or there's a tax. And confess openly, tell people that you want so much and so much tax money. After all, the whole negotiation you were conducting reminded my colleague Zavadil here, so it was about how much will be reduced to entrepreneurs that they will pay. And don't forget that there are 14 days in neighboring countries, but six weeks or much longer, and they have no discounts, because the tax burden, for example, is much higher in the Federal Republic of Germany, not to mention Nordic countries such as Sweden or Denmark. So please, if I'm behind the principles, the time of the cardinal is to be cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u41	Thank you, and please, with the de facto Mr Laudát. Mr. Plzák will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u42	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna say the same thing my colleague Stanjura said earlier. When I was running the company, there were 70 employees and 135 on different assignments. When someone was sick or suddenly sick, there was an agreement, he didn't take any vacations, he didn't lose any money. Either the employer takes an interest in what kind of real work this person does, or then he spins on formal matters. I have to say, that attitude paid off. And as I know smaller companies, when the businessmen are decent, they approach it in this way and resolve it without perhaps knowing the law. I didn't know him either. That's one thing. The second thing is that although insurance is paid, it is paid on pensions and the like, but in the logic of what my colleague Filip said, then I would also say, why is he getting married from 65 years of age or according to some other criteria when a person retires and doesn't get married right away? If he pays, he's entitled to it. So I think the limit, the deadline is fine, and I think it has dramatically contributed to the reduction in so-called illness. I'm not saying that some freaks don't hunt down their employees until they're hopeless that they're taking vacations. It is sad when we come to the fact that today we are counting individual days for socially weak groups when they do not receive income. It's sad that we've achieved this, but I think the key is somewhere completely different from the dosage, the dosage, the dosage, the dosage, the possible overdose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u43	Thank you. And with another factual request to the microphone of Mr. Plzák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to respond to my colleague Filip. It occurred to me when he was talking about the insurance - there are other types of insurance where you don't have 100% of the benefits. If you have such an accident insurance for a car, it doesn't pay for a full repair, but there's some involvement or some restrictions. And I think it's consistent with how it was originally set up, which means 25 percent in those first days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u45	Thank you. And now I have four priority rights here. I will just ask, to be sure, whether Mr Zavadil and Filip insist on priority rights or have exhausted their contribution in fact. That's right. Then please Minister Dienstbier, Minister Marksová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u46	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, from a procedural point of view, I would respond to Mr Stanjura's question. First of all, I would like to draw attention to this, and I would expect Mr Stanjura as an ex-minister to know this procedure, that the Legislative Council of the Government and its working committee are not discussing parliamentary, senate or regional bills. Under legislative rules, these authorities are discussing only government legislative proposals, absolutely anything else on the basis of the decision of the Prime Minister's President. It is not even possible to discuss these institutions, given that the Constitution sets a 30-day deadline for comments, including forwarding various proposals from the Prime Minister to the President of the Legislative Council, to the relevant ministries, where these departments subsequently send their positions, and from which the draft Government's position is in principle put together. This opinion is a political opinion and does not replace standard legislative procedures, i.e. an assessment of the effects of regulation is not being processed. That wouldn't be possible in such a short time. That's how the opinions need to be understood. And, of course, the government is not even trying to replace, for example, the missing or insufficient part of the explanatory report. He may or may not draw attention to this, depending on what politically he considers appropriate or what he decides. So much for the procedure. Meritorně, I assume that Mrs Marksová, who has this in her mind, will comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u47	Thank you. And before I invite the Minister, I must prefer Mr Bendl, who is reporting with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to say to Minister Dienstbier's margo that the Rules of Procedure impose on the petitioner, yes, in the explanatory memorandum to the petitioner, I stress that the costs that will be passed on to public budgets by this proposal should be mapped here. And since it is obvious that we are not in the order of millions, tens of millions or hundreds of millions, but in the order of billions of crowns, and this proposal, as you have already said, the government here is saying a political position, I understand that, and I think it is obvious that the government is trying to make a petitioner, that is, to meet the Communist Members, but then it would be good for the government to at least be aware that we are dealing with costs in the order of billions of crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u49	Thank you. And another factual point by Mr Mackovík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u50	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am listening to repeated words here about how much it will cost to be some 9 billion. So I would like to remind myself that the existing law which applies, its existing form, is a product of kleptocracy represented in the Chamber of Deputies, which, of course, is still trying to maintain the income as it is. I want to draw attention to one thing. If we're blaming it for nine billion, let's say what it cost to be an IZIP project that cost at least two billion. public budgets. That's not enough of those nine billion. How much did the case cost like CASA, Pandur, Mopro? These are the billions that came out of public funds and that we could give to the socially weakest, who are actually affected by the existing law force so that they get worse when they get sick. So I ask all reasonable Members to support our proposal for an amendment to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u51	Thank you. And now I beg you with the priority right of Minister Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u52	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Members of Parliament, I would like to reiterate that the coalition agreement states that the government will change or cancel the Karenary period when all the social partners agree. This agreement has not yet been reached. And otherwise, we, as the ministry, will submit to tripartite material, where we will try as hard as we can to quantify these costs. Of course, we have to say that it's very complicated to put against each other what those people who don't get into the three-day sick leave are going to do with the health system. That's not easy. And there's also a discussion about how some practical doctors seem to fit too well and write some incompetents. But at this point, we are not able to find out who they are, given the lack of, or actually, the lack of electronisation of incompetents. We still have the three papers, so the Czech Social Security Administration is going to get that one hole, and very badly at the moment, until the doctors are really online, it's being watched. But otherwise, I'd like to say for myself that sick leave is used by those who pay their insurance. And I think the insurance guys are paying for it to draw it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u53	Thank you. And now I'm registering Mr Borka's factual remark? No, that's a mistake. Therefore, please contact the microphone duly logged in to Mrs. Maxová. Mrs. Šánová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, many have already been said, I may be repeated in some matters. I don't think there's a need to change the system that works. The Czech Republic, as you all know, was basically one of the countries that had the highest level of incapacity for work in Europe prior to the introduction of the quarantine period. As has been said, this amendment is not aimed at all basically workers, so it is unfair. It is aimed exclusively at employees in employment relations under the Labour Code, but as my colleague Stanjura said, there are no professional soldiers, members of the security forces, representatives of state authorities and certain state authorities and judges, the release of members of representatives of local authorities or civil servants. They would not have been touched by the change proposed. In our opinion, this would mean unequal treatment in the provision of compensation for wages. It is therefore not possible to deal with the cancellation of the period of registration in isolation, as is in this amendment, only for employees in employment relations under the Labour Code, and for all other insured persons rewarded under the dependent activity to leave it. [[16.00 hours]] Secondly, this is the fact that the abolition of the time of the Karenary must also be reflected in other related legislation, and the proposed amendment does not count on that for the time being. In particular, it is the Income Tax Act, the State Social Support Act and the Pension Insurance Act. The aim of the introduction of the quarantine period was to reduce the abuse of the system, which is documented by numbers that have already been mentioned several times. It is difficult to really believe that Czech employees are twice as sick as they are elsewhere in Europe. The effect with the introduction of the quarantine period has arrived. This measure is quite common in the European Union and Switzerland. Finland has even a nine-day Karenary period. Among other countries where the time of the card is zero compensation for lost wages, there is a need for Finland, France, Italy, Austria, Greece, Estonia, Cyprus, Malta, Portugal, Spain, Ireland, Switzerland, Great Britain. What has not yet been said here is that self-employed persons, for example, reach sickness at the earliest on the 15th day of the illness, only if they pay an optional part of the social insurance. Let us also refer to the Constitutional Court's finding, which it says, and in many cases it has already been mentioned here that a three-day period of quarantine does not pose a threat of a decline in standard for the introduction of a dignified life. Moreover, as my colleague Stanjura once again spoke, many small medium-sized and large enterprises have in place the so-called benefits. Sick days, which is one to three days a year, which employees can choose during the year completely without a problem. And it's just an employee-employer arrangement. It should be pointed out that, of course, the employer's full social and health insurance is paid for employees during the Karen period. The staff member himself should therefore be responsible for his health. Moreover, the employer has limited tools to control sick workers in the first three days. The employer's burden and other responsibilities are already at the edge of international competitiveness. Therefore, the motion to abolish the Karenary period cannot be accepted, as well as any new version of the solution that would further burden the employer. And what has not yet been said here is that, on the contrary, the average duration of one incapacity for work has increased. While it was an average of 39.5 days in 2008, it lasted 48.43 days in 2009. Clearly, then, people who are sick for no reason no longer pay much for the trick. They tend to be really sick, which is why the average duration of the disease has also been prolonged. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I must join the motion to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u55	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mrs. Šánová. Mr. Opálka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u56	Madam President, dear colleagues, there is not much left for me to say here, because a lot has been said. But something hasn't been said yet. When this system was introduced in 2009 - I believe - it was also true that the employer received half of the compensation paid from the state, namely from the Czech Social Security Administration. I do not know if the appellant is familiar with this - through you - but I am convinced that if the time of the card was to be abolished, then it should be considered that the employer would get back and I think that it would be a very high cost to the state budget, and not, as has been said by the appellant, that the state budget will not be burdened. [[Madam President]] That's one thing. The second thing is, if we've heard about infections spreading here - if it's... I don't know that I'm being attacked by doctors right now, but if it's an infectious disease that's being quarantined, then the period of quarantine is falling apart, and the compensation for the disease has been paid from day one. I would also like to say, through the President, to my colleague Zavadil, that he said here how he agreed on the tripartite and what employers received for it. They got that half of the compensation they were getting for about two years, so it was taken away from them. And today, the refund is paid in full of its own. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u57	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Opálka's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u58	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, a lot has been said here, but much has not yet. He probably won't get into all the planned opposition packages today, but that's what happens when he starts stalling to approve the program. This press, too, deserves more attention because it is not the first time in the House. And before I begin to remember, let me say at least in the introduction one question: For the poor people there must be rigor. Ladies and gentlemen, how many times do we hear an apology from the bleachers for the illness of a Member or a Member? I ask you, how many of you have brought a sick leave? This is also the case with loose members on the outskirts, in the municipalities. In all ministries there is a so-called. Indisposition leave, when an employee without a full salary can deal with the first days of the illness. Self-employed persons who do not pay voluntarily sick persons and have employees, so, of course, they are good at profit by working employees. So I just want to say that when someone is talking about it being discriminatory, that it is not the same for everyone, I have to say that the current system is discriminatory. Each group has the possibility of a different escape, only the ordinary employee unfortunately doesn't. That is why, in the last parliamentary term, I was also the promoter of the House press with a high number of 788. It turned out that sickness insurance, better said, compensation for wages under the Labour Code, was very sharp in the right-wing and left-wing vision of the former Chamber of Deputies. Although the right had a majority at the time, we reached the third reading after two years on January 27, 2010. Allow me a little reminiscence, it's very interesting. On that day, the third reading was initiated by a debate, but when the vote was due, Prime Minister Barták left the House and she questioned the possibility of further negotiations. Since such a situation has not yet occurred in the absence of a member of the Government, the Prime Minister was invited to the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, whom I also intersected in connection with this obstruction of a member of the Government. All we heard was excuses. We returned to this point again on 3 February, when the vote was due to be completed, but Minister Jurásková, with her speech, opened up a debate that had already been closed again and, with an obstructive speech, Mr Nečas, who had exhausted the time limit, without actually taking a vote in the debate. Given the Minister's obstruction, I re-interpelled the Prime Minister. Result: excuses again. [[16.10 hours]] On 26 February an extraordinary meeting was held, which was convened for the purpose of negotiating this House's press, but then the Excolega Nečas continued its discussion, which he called an educational mission. It was his tenth performance to this point. I'm noticing it was just a repeat. He said what has already been said. In order to prevent further progress, my colleague, Rabas, interrupted the negotiations at the meeting of the Green Party MEP's club. So it was not until 12 March that the Chamber of Deputies returned to this press again, but this time the time limit was exhausted by his speech, Mr Kalousek, and the item was interrupted again in the debate. So we continued until the election came. And no one said that there is also a survey that reveals that 42 percent of the patients are taking vacations, and thus takes time to properly regenerate, that 34 percent of the people are passing through the disease and thus getting into more dangerous diseases in the future, and that only 24 percent of the patients are taking advantage of the illness as they should. There is also no mention that the new system has spared employers more than 10 billion on reduced insurance premiums and on seemingly minor illness caused by people spending the disease on vacation or at work. Crowns. But on the other hand, the new system produced a budget deficit on sickness insurance last year. It is also forbidden that in the Federal Republic of Germany the employer pays compensation for sickness wages without a period of 90 per cent, if they have a collective agreement of 100 per cent. In our country, it is 60 percent reduced base with three-day quarantine time. So much for history, which is projected to date, of course. A small comparison could also be made in the fact that in the countries of the European Union, the rate of compensation does not fall below half of the earnings, but rather 70 or more percent. With 60 percent, we belong to the lower half of the states. I do not think that we should fall below 60 percent in the first three days of the disease. If we are considering it this way, I must say that some kind of introduction of the deadline for the Karenary was submitted by the government here in 2004. So it was about the deadline, which basically paid off 25, respectively. 22,5 %. And for the record, at that time, the House press had the same number 393 as today's. However, at that time 69 percent of the reduced wage compensation and reduction reduced by 10 percent were paid. We're at 60 percent today. So employers got 9 percent plus approved three days without pay. Yes, there are those nine billion we should be counting on. Otherwise, for the sake of interest, sickness insurance, I mean in addition to two or three years, has always been in surplus since 1993 and for the state budget this accumulated amount is 78 billion. It's a pretty solid tax. Even there, of course, could be considered how to reduce these refunds. Better said, this insurance policy. As it goes, in fact, in the 12 countries of the European Union, there is no time limit, i.e. no first three days unpaid, no. At 11 it is the same as in the Czech Republic, three or two, or even one day. [[13]] Ireland stands out most of it, which has a six-day card period. But on the other hand, the replacement in those next days is far, far higher. And if we count the fact that a single woman with two children takes 2.5 grand. (?) Gross, let's figure out the basics of her illness, so I have to assure you that she really, really misses the first three days. I was moving before I went to the House, in the business sector. You know, in that collective where you're hardly looking for a replacement, when tribal employees have to set their time, I can tell you that public opinion about those who abuse the system doesn't exactly have a positive relationship. And a man like that won't last long in a collective like this. That's why I'm thinking - we're still fencing numbers, but no one can tell what percentage is being used. Statistics show and show in the past that the greatest disease is in the time of holidays and in the pre-Christmas period with officials. It seems that in other professions the situation is a little different. I apologize to all those officials who have been touched and not affected. If you look at the situation, who actually decides whether a person is ill or not, then we would have to say that doctors are to blame. On the other hand, we know that a number of diseases, whether or not they are, cannot be revealed from an hour to an hour. And so I think that the proposal that is before you and which, if it should not be unilateral, should be extended - and I am prepared by the amendment - also about the amendment on income taxes, the extension of the Labour Code to other paragraphs such as 94 or 370, the amendment of the Social Support Act or the Pension Insurance Act, as Mrs Maxová, or the question of professional soldiers, the Municipal Law, the Regional Act, the Act on the Capital City of Prague or the Service of Security Corps members, and the amendment of the Civil Service Act. Of course, this can be discussed in the Committee on Social Policy and sought a common consensus. Personally, I think that this material, although, of course, as I have already indicated, is very conflicting in the right-left spectrum, that one can also look for a way through both the reduction of the premium rate and the way back to what I believe was unreasonablely and unracionally changed, i.e. Some of the elements the law has acknowledged, because few laws from 2004 to 2012, 2013 have given rise to such blows that the Constitutional Court had to deal with them as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u59	I thank the honourable Member and ask if anyone else is still taking part in the debate. It's not like that. I therefore conclude the general debate and ask the appellant if she is interested in the final word. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u60	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief summary. I think that all the questions that have been asked here repeatedly by colleagues - when I sum up, 18 colleagues have spoken in the debate, some in technical notes - that the questions that have been asked here have been found in the words of my co-president of this law, Mr Opálka, answers were found and the starting points as well as some handshake to all those who want to fill not only the government's programming statement, i.e. Government Members and Members, but also we, as Members of the KSČM, who have long tried to push and hold this issue and promote it, despite the disfavor of the right-wing and the Wednesday Members and Members, as you had the opportunity to hear. [[Disturbing noise in the hall.]] I think that a reasonable compromise can be found across the political spectrum and that it is not really about who is putting what forward but what is being presented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u61	Madam, I'm sorry. The O.R. was filled, of course the noise level went up. I'm gonna ask my colleagues to keep their voice down so you don't have to scream at them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u62	Thank you, too, Madam President. If it helps most citizens of the Czech Republic, it would be nice to show a kind face to the Chamber of Deputies and agree on a solution that will be beneficial. As petitioners and proponents of this bill, we are very open to this. Just a little comment on my colleague. Šán through Madam President. I'd just say I didn't really say it wouldn't burden the state budget. On the contrary, I said that the proposal has an impact on state and other public budgets. It's just for refills. Otherwise, I don't want to comment on the performances. Thank you for your attention and I ask you not to support the proposed motion to dismiss repeatedly and release this amendment to the second reading. I'm sure you can make a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u63	I thank and ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u64	Thank you. I've only been for a short time, because there's been a lot of talk here. Only perhaps my dear colleagues through you, Madam Vice-President. Now that they're called A, when they're called states where it's a period of quarantine, it's going to say B, what it looks like from the other side. I can say that Switzerland, England, France, Germany and so on have other instruments, but perhaps so much to the margin. Otherwise, I also ask the honourable House to release this material from first reading, and I also report to you if we release the Social Policy Committee to be the committee that would be the guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u65	Thank you. Before I begin the vote, I will sign you all off and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Since the motion to reject the proposal has been made several times, I am therefore voting on this motion to reject it. I ask who is in favour of the motion to reject the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 150, to which 158 are registered, for 69, against 76. The motion was denied. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Social Policy Committee. In connection with the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies with effect from 1. 3. 2015 I propose that we order a bill to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Mr Stanjura. [[No.]] Not a guarantee committee. I don't see any other suggestion. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 151, to which 160 are registered, for 158, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I will ask Mr Stanjura whether he wants to propose another committee to deal with this proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u66	I have spoken repeatedly about the impact on budgets, so logically I suggest that the Committee on Budgets should also deal with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u67	Yes, thank you. Any other suggestions? I can't see. Mr Laudát's proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u68	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I propose a health committee, for that reason, if you would not like to discuss the real material aspects which affect this law. It is not only about social matters, but also about health, which is why I am making this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-001-095.u69	Thank you. Any other suggestions? I don't see any. We will therefore first vote on Mr Stanjura's proposal, so that the next committee dealing with this bill should be the Committee on Budgets. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 152, to which 160 are registered, for 68, against 34. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We will now consider Mr Laudát's proposal, which proposes ordering the Committee on Health. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 153, to which 160 are registered, for 75, against 38. This proposal was also rejected. I'm ending the first reading of this law. Before we proceed to the next point, allow me to read the apologies, and this Mr Zemek apologizes from today's meeting from 17.30 for work reasons and, on the contrary, Mr Kudela cancels his apology, from 16.05 he is again present in the hall. We will now proceed to discuss the next point and that is
