ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u1	67. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on infractions, as amended / House print 611/ - first reading I ask that this press state, under the authority of the Government, the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it. Once again, I ask for peace in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, may I present and present the Government's bill amending the school law as part of the first reading performance. As regards the content of the amendment, the main objective of the amendment to the Education Act is, on the one hand, the adaptation of pre-school education, the introduction of a single entrance exam at secondary schools and grammar school with graduation, and, on the other, the adaptation of the common part of the graduation exam in the field of the common part of the graduation exam, and the adaptation of the National Council for Education. In all these respects, it is either the fulfilment of the coalition contract and the government's programming declaration or the result of supporting these changes to the social partners or parties to the professional public, whether pedagogical or otherwise. Within the framework of the so-called the compulsory pre-school education government proposal contains several changes. The first issue I would like to draw your attention to is a long time from the point of view of parents preferred change related to the fact that from 2017 we have claimed the pre-school education of children of four years old, from the school year 2018 to the pre-school education of three-year-olds. At the same time, in the context and in full compliance with trends in education within the European Union, we also introduce so-called. compulsory pre-school year of education between 5 and 6 years of age. As far as this obligation is concerned, I would just like to point out that this is not an equivalent to compulsory schooling, as we know it subsequently from 6 years of age, but it is compulsory pre-school education, which currently uses 90 percent of the children, and so it is also an option that we are adjusting to choose an alternative of this education for the 10 percent of the children or their parents who are not using the system. As far as compulsory pre-school education is concerned, it should therefore work so that, in the context of May's minutes, which we are re-adapting in uniform, May's pre-school entries, so, in the case of compulsory pre-school education, who does not want to educate his child in this way, he will be able to notify this fact in a simple way to the school in which he or she is assigned to attend this school during December to January, in order to verify the assumptions of his or her child for education, and if deficiencies are identified in order to be given to the parties to the nursery school of support. On the other hand, the entries to primary schools are unified for the same period of April, where we respond, among other things, to the fact that we have a very high number of delays in compulsory schooling, in our case they reach 23 to 26%. This is also one of the reasons why we want compulsory pre-school education, because we are promising to reduce the number of delays. [[12.10 hours]] Another argument for us in terms of introducing this year's compulsory pre-school education is better adaptation of children in transition to primary school. Furthermore, as I have already mentioned, the reduction in the number of deferrals, the provision of capacity and guarantee of a place in kindergartens for the future. Of course, I would also like to draw attention to the argument of the custom of such an adjustment in the world. Even more stringent from the point of view of compulsory pre-school education, I would say the proximity of our social and legal environment is Austria, Poland or Hungary. I would also like to point out that, for example, for Western countries that work with pre-school education, this truth is a little bit in half, because in a number of cases in countries from us to the West there is a right to pre-school education, but at the same time compulsory school attendance begins much earlier, for example, from five to four years old. What I consider important from the point of view of compulsory pre-school education is, in particular, that in this way we will also guarantee places in kindergarten schools in the future so that there is no arbitrary reduction in the capacity of kindergarten schools and that future, future generations also have certainty of access to pre-school education. Last but not least, I would also like to mention that we are also supporting the need for kindergartens as an educational institution, because this issue of education before the start of schooling is a general professional public, as well as from the perspective of the follow-up results of children in school preparation and subsequently in the preparation of a work key instrument. For the last time, I would mention the argument of mitigating social inequalities, because, of course, children from different property conditions or social backgrounds already at pre-school level have a strong character in terms of equality of chances and their success in basic education. I would also like to say that investment in pre-school education has one of the highest economic returns and amounts to up to 14 percent. This, too, at a time when we are called to increase the competitiveness of our employees and, of course, students ending education, whether in high school or in college, has its meaning. Another of the subjects governing the amendment to the Education Act is the uniform entrance exam at secondary schools and grammar school. High school, that is, finished with the graduation exam. The government proposal regulates the uniform entrance exam of mathematics, the Czech language and literature, and thus allows comparison of the prerequisites for education within the secondary education of pupils ending nine years of primary schooling. At the same time, we provide high school directors with an objective assessment of the knowledge and skills of applicants and we also provide a comparable and uniform criterion for admission procedures. At the same time, as a government, we are promising to reduce the administrative demands of existing admission procedures in secondary schools. I would like to say that we are based on the pilot verification that took place in this school year and will continue in the following school year. This pilot verification involved 650 schools from around 1,200 in the Czech Republic, which means a very important representative sample. The results of the pilot verification were appreciated and supported by secondary schools and grammar schools. The exam will be centrally commissioned by cerma, from which we promise both speed in the evaluation of entrance exams, and for those school directors who choose to test pupils or to verify their knowledge only in this way, because it is their choice to make this decision, of course, we are still promising ourselves a more significant reduction in administrative intensity than it has been so far. School directors who wish to certify further skills or knowledge of pupils will be able to do so, but the weight of single testing admission procedures must not be less than 50 per cent. I would like to mention that schools with a talent test do not fall under this type of regulation, that is, conservatory, art school or sports grammar school. I would like to make it clear in the first reading that there is no full agreement in this spirit between the parties to the professional public, and I assume that it is possible, in the Chamber of Deputies, that even in relation to these talent tests, the model of the single entrance exam will be adopted following the debates and the agreement of Members and Members across the political spectrum. As far as the joint part of the graduation exam is concerned, we have moved against the original considerations the mandatory part of the joint graduation exam in the case of mathematics for the school year 2020/2021. We did so following the introduction of uniform entrance exams, which will first compare the prerequisites for the study of primary school pupils, and we find it predictable and fair that these changes to the graduation exam would follow four years later from the uniform entrance exams. With regard to the changes that we have made outside the law, I just want to point out that the minimum hours of mathematics under the framework education programme have been adjusted. On the other hand, with discussions with experts, we have found that we will still have ambition to change the content of the framework education programme in the case of the subject of mathematics, and we would like to do this in the light of the existing experience stemming from the teaching of mathematics and to make, say, mathematics more attractive to our pupils. The National Education Council is a board which has been asked in particular by the social partners within the framework of tripartite. In the regulation submitted to you, it is a supervisory advisory body of the Ministry of Education. I would consider such an institution to be an asset in terms of the stability of certain educational objectives and, unfortunately, the Czech Education Ministers are changing too often. On the other hand, I would like to say that the new Competitiveness Council and its Education Committee fulfil these functions when the social partners asked for a supervisory body. So in this respect, we believe that these requirements are met in this way. Finally, I would like to comment on the economic effects of these changes. In the case of a single entrance exam, we estimate the costs of Cermat for this uniform entrance exam at CZK 21 million. At the same time, we assume that in the context of pilot verification this year we will specify the impacts on the organisation of individual schools and, if costs are incurred, we will expect the costs to be determined as for graduation exams and corrective deadlines by the special subsidy development programme of the Ministry of Education. In the case of pre-school education organisation, that is to say, a link that may be considered especially when considering the capacity of kindergarten schools, I would like to inform you that this year and next year, which we have until the start of compulsory pre-school education, as well as the extension of child access rights to pre-school education, the government invests about one billion in kindergarten infrastructure through the investment programmes of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education. At the same time, we have prepared funds in the billions of the IROP operational programme, the start of which, following the latest information from the local development minister, is expected in February, March 2016. [[12.20 hours]] In addition, we do not want these changes to be merely a pat on quality without real changes and support for kindergartens, so we have prepared special templates from operational programme 3V in the case of the recruitment of new places to tutors and teachers in kindergartens, which we consider appropriate addition of national funds with regard to demographic wave, which is now moving from pre-school education to basic education. In addition, we have also strengthened the kindergarten and the organisation of teaching in them so that the government has decided to shorten the direct compulsory teaching obligation of the school heads, with a budget cost of 200 million. koruna for this change. I would like to conclude by saying that the parties to kindergartens have repeatedly heard votes to reduce the number of children within classes, and also in relation to these changes and the importance of pre-school education to which we, as a government, are dedicated, we intend to take these requirements into account. The overall motive of this amendment, which at first glance may seem very diverse, is to increase the quality of education in our schools, increase the individual really material and personally supported education and attention of teachers towards children, as well as to reflect the demands that our education system and our schools and, of course, our teachers place on current economic growth as well as the demands of employers and future investors, and thus the future success of the Czech Republic in terms of economic space. Finally, I would like to inform the Member and the Member more closely about the effectiveness of this amendment, as envisaged. As regards the extension of pre-school education rights for children of four-year-olds, this is 2017 for the extension of the three-year-olds' entitlement for children of three-year-olds 2018. In the event of Parliament's approval, we could expect the new rules consisting of a uniform entrance exam for the first time in the spring of 2017 and three mandatory examinations of the common part of the graduation exam will apply to the selected fields in the 2020/2021 school year. The last effectiveness, which is important from the point of view of professional debate, which can also be transformed into a political debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, is the unification of the system of evaluation of written works from the Czech language and written work from a foreign language on the principle of evaluation of work by external evaluators, which will apply from the school year 2016/2017, i.e. for the first time in the spring test period 2017. The compulsory last year of pre-school education will then apply from 1 September 2017, however, the minutes will be affected in the new registration months during 2017. The other changes will be effective from 1 September 2016. For this reason, we also believe that we have sufficient time to prepare, implement and start these changes in the education system and that we are sufficiently prepared for changes within the organisation of kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools. I am aware, honourable Members, that any changes to the law of education give rise to a great deal of interest to both professional and political debates. I would like to use my presentation and introductory words as part of the first reading to call you really to a fair and factual debate on these changes, which will, of course, be of assistance to you in the course of the discussion of the Ministry of Education, Youth, Sports and I personally, and to be able to find a consensus, because I believe that we all have no doubt the objective of achieving the best possible education for our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I will read Mr Gabrhel's apology, who apologizes for work reasons. And now I am asking the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Petr Kořenko. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a press of 611, a government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, school law, as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended. Its promoter is the government of the Czech Republic, mainly the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The press was sent to the MPs on 23 September 2015 at 16.51. The subject matter of the law is the introduction of a compulsory year of pre-school education before the start of compulsory schooling. Here, emphasis is placed primarily on quality. I would like to draw attention to the information from the annual report of the Czech School Inspectorate, where the Czech School Inspectorate also points out that the heads of kindergarten schools do not measure the quality of education. Because, of course, I followed the debate on this House's press, and the most common things that were mentioned were pre-school education. Here I would like to point out, and the Ministry of Education is already dealing with this, I have some answers with regard to the vaccination of children, because there is a need to draw attention here, and this issue will be dealt with because, after the adoption of the amendment to the law, it will be possible to accept children who are not vaccinated into pre-school education. Then there is another thing, and these are school districts, where it is of course pointed out that there will be an obligation only for children with permanent residence, so I also point out that we do not have an institute of temporary residence today, so basically there may be a problem with children's records and thus capacity provision in kindergarten schools. I think there's a lot of questions. The Ministry of Education has drawn up an overview that I have at my disposal as rapporteur, but, of course, these things will be subject to discussion on the committee and subcommittee, so I think, and the Minister has explained it very carefully here, which is why it is unnecessary to discuss some things. Perhaps one more comment with regard to forest kindergartens, because there were also some concerns. So the answer here is that if a parent decides to place a child in a forest nursery, it will be a form of individual child education. Even a child who visits a forest nursery will have to be verified. It's just pre-school education notes. Then there is the adjustment of the admission management system to the secondary education fields completed by the graduation exam and the modification of the model and evaluation of the graduation exam and some of the requirements of the examination management of the result of the graduation exam. Of course, you have stated in the explanatory memorandum that there will be a need to amend some of the sub-laws, their thesis being accompanied by what part of the House's press. So briefly from the explanatory report, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening a general debate. In the debate, but in front of the duly signed up, President Fiala. Please. Then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. You may recall that it was not so long ago that we were discussing or going through an amendment to the School Act in this House, and they accepted it. I feel like it was sometime in the spring of this year. Not even a year has passed, and we meet here again to re-open the school code and make some changes again. The fact itself should disturb us, because it is not good in the field of education, that the state should constantly intervene in legislation, constantly change the rules of the game, change the conditions that schools have, and quickly and within one year for the second time is rapid and rapidly constantly editing and improving them, improving in quotation marks, school law. [[12.30 hours]] Madam Secretary, and you might think, the Minister is new to the office, so she wanted to bring something new into school legislation, so now we're opening the school law again. But it is not entirely true, and Minister Valachová is to some extent innocent of this, because the basic ideas that are presented in the amendment to the School Act have already been heard from the mouth of her predecessor Minister Chládek, which means such ideas for compulsory pre-school education, ideas for uniform exams in secondary schools and other things. So, perhaps, rather than some initiative by Minister Valachová, it is a kind of socialist obsession that we need to change and adapt our education as quickly as possible in this direction. In her speech, the Minister here said that the basic motive, the motivation for doing all this is to improve the quality of the educational system of our schools. However, I have not heard a single argument, the only reason why these measures should improve the quality of our schools. I believe that no such reason could have been given to us or to the Minister, because all these measures are essentially useless, senseless, bureaucratic, and the quality of our education will not improve the least. I do not want to talk for long and there will certainly be enough opportunity in the debate for my colleagues to explain in detail what bothers us on individual points, but at least briefly a few basic arguments why we are doing a thing that is unnecessary, education will not help and will make the whole education system more complicated. What is probably the worst thing about the proposed amendment at least from my point of view is the idea that we will have compulsory pre-school education, i.e. simply all children will have to go to kindergarten one year before starting primary school. Let's ask ourselves why. Why should all children go to kindergarten? Why are we ordering this? Why is it in the law? Why are we forcing everyone? When we look at the situation, we look at the results of the survey of the Czech School Inspectorate, so we find that he is already attending kindergarten today, it varies from year to year, but about 90 percent of children. We can't exactly tell which of the 10 percent that doesn't go there are children from troubled families, from so-called socially excluded localities, from those who then have problems entering primary school. The percentage is estimated somewhere between three and five. Everyone else is from families that prepare children well for elementary school, which, for various reasons, simply do not send children to kindergarten, for example, because mommy is with a younger sibling on maternity leave or because they are in the family of well-cared grandparents who help with upbringing, and simply the family does not need to send children to kindergarten. These kids are well prepared for primary school and there is no reason why the state should tell them: So and now you will send the child to kindergarten, and if you do not, you will pay a fine, or you can go to some exam where we will find out if the child is ready or not. [[repeats with emphasis]] It's completely nonsense. And if we want to deal with the three, four, five percent of the children of those troubled families who can't prepare a child for primary school, they don't have some basic social, hygienic and other habits, and all that the teachers in primary schools have to deal with then, we certainly won't be able to solve it by laying down this obligation for them, because if we don't work with those families, we're not going to make a whole bunch of other measures, more motivational than sanctions, so we're not going to change any situation. But even if they do, because someone doesn't do what they're supposed to do, how they're supposed to behave, what they're supposed to do with the kids, that they have to put the kids in school, that they're going to be taken care of, that they're well prepared for primary school, it's absurd, and there's no point. Arguing abroad isn't very helpful either. This is precisely the area of education and education systems, which is not integrated within the European Union for good reasons precisely because there are different traditions, customs and that education systems that have very different formal definitions, institutional structures can achieve equally good results. That is why it is possible to say here how it is in Austria or Germany or Poland, but it does not help us much in the debate. We could, for example, give an example of France, which is known in terms of children by a rather strict education system, including Saturday's teaching, etc. Those are just different traditions that have nothing to do with ours. If we want to improve the quality of our educational system, and we should, that should be our goal, we probably won't do that by prolonging the time that children spend in schools. Perhaps many of you will remember that this is not so long in the historical perspective when we extended primary school from eight to nine years old. And did you ever wonder what the result was? Do those kids who finish primary school instead of eight after nine years, know something better, more, do they have deeper knowledge? Does this have any meaning in terms of quality of education? I'll answer that. Very small, if any. We have extended the time spent in primary school, but in terms of quality of education it has not produced any major effect. But what's happening now? Perhaps you know it well from your families, from your children, or when you look around. Today, people are graduating, and let's face it, 70 percent of the senior year is graduating, 19th grade today, and a quarter of them or many, I don't know if it's exactly a quarter, maybe a fifth, graduating at 20. Is this a desirable condition? Is the quality of education consistent with this? Is their knowledge consistent with that? Do they need to graduate when they're 19 or 20? In the first Republic, it was that a number of people who graduated from the university were 22 years old. Until recently, it was like that. In my generation, it was possible to end university studies at the age of twenty-two with a small doctorate. We've got a lot of kids graduating at the age of 20 today because they've been going to primary school for too long. And now the Ministry of Education is going to say, "But that's not enough, that's not enough, those nine and four years, they're going to have to go to school one year before, so this basic education is going to be the time period of our lives from five to fifteen years. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no relevant reason for this. Just some ideological obsession that leads to the need to have children in a facility that is administered by the state or licensed by the state as soon as possible, so that we can control them and those parents and all of them are raised somehow. There can't be any other reason, and there's no other reason. So introducing compulsory pre-school education or compulsory pre-school education is part of the education system, it is unnecessary, indefensible and harmful as a result. I'm not talking about the economic costs involved here on purpose, but I want to point out the uselessness of extending the time when children sit in school. So much for the first and most serious thing that this useless amendment to the school bill contains. The second concerns uniform entrance exams in high school. [[12.40 hours]] And once again, the first question we have to ask ourselves is why, what we're going to do, what we're going to test, what we want to know. Do we really think that school directors can't get their entrance exams together that they can't pick the kids they want to take to their school? Do we really think it's gonna be so good, like young boys and girls who want to become paramedics and apply to medical school to prove that they've succeeded well in Czech and math in national comparison, that they're going to improve their choice? Or is it just better that the director of the medical school or the principal is able to get her own motivation, according to other criteria, just choose those who are better suited to the profession? What will we do to introduce another state-controlled centralized system when we know that the previous ones we introduced did not always work well, were expensive and did not bring any improved quality to anything? And if we want to improve the quality of education, not the common entrance tests. What's that for? We have testing on nodal points of education, i.e. fifth and ninth grade. This is a tool that we can see and receive feedback on how schools teach, where improvements need to be made, where the Ministry needs to intervene. But uniform entrance exams are useless. It's the bureaucratization of the school system, it's gonna be expensive and it's not gonna bring better results. Well, look who's studying in high school today. What kind of kids get in there. There are those who do not belong there who should go into learning! You're probably right, but the problem is different. You can't take that out with uniform entrance exams. No way. This would be eliminated by what we did not have the courage to do in this society, and that is a reduction in the number of secondary schools. What is called optimization, simply canceling those that are bad and which are here extra. But that didn't happen, so there's a huge amount of high school offers, and it's going to be regulated by the state now by introducing uniform entrances, there's no solution to the problem, because it's not going to lead to any good outcome. As regards the joint or compulsory math exam as part of the state part of the graduation exam, this is the only point of all of which I think needs to be discussed and which has good reasons and which also has support in the opinions of the professional public. But before we do something like this in the law, we should continue the debate that has now ceased, the kind of exam we want to have for the future. What's going to be the state section and what's going to be left in the schools? What's this graduation gonna do? We will really continue to practice in the Czech Republic that we have graduation, then we have entrance exams even with state participation, state part of graduation, and then we have entrance exams for universities. Or can we combine it, as it is in other countries, into one test? They must really have a graduation - and I note here for those who may not know other education systems that graduation is a very specific element of only some education systems. Do we really have to have a graduation for all the types of schools that we have now? Or can we replace her with something? But until such a debate is over, once again interferes with the current state graduation form, introducing mandatory mathematics for which I am, but only on the basis that it will be clear to us what the graduation exam is for, what the concept is, what it has in terms of admission to universities and what we expect from it as a society. But putting it in place now seems irresponsible to me. And the date that the Minister mentioned here, and I thank her for not continuing in the senseless proposals of her predecessor, that we will do it from 2019 etc., so the date of school year 2020/2021, it is the first possible if everything went optimally, if everything went optimally, as if it would not go, when a mandatory math exam can be introduced. I think the date is unrealistic, but at least it's theoretically manageable, unlike the data the predecessor of Secretary Valachová was operating with here. But it doesn't change my basic reservation that a math exam can be introduced as mandatory only after it becomes clear to us what we want to do with graduation, what form it takes and what place it will have in our educational system. Until then, it is an irresponsible intervention in the graduation exams, the state section, which, after huge problems in these years, finally works as well as how we do not threaten it by bringing in another element. For this reason, I find it completely irresponsible, and I am surprised that the Ministry is coming with this, to interfere again in the way of repairing written works from, for example, the Czech language and other things. Why? We've been hard to fix what didn't set up well, and whatever we've entrusted to schools works better than when we're fixing it in a nationwide way. In my opinion, it is absolutely unnecessary, unjustified, contrary even to our experience, and I do not know why we should make any change. When it comes to such ideas that we put some national council and some other commission into the law - well, please, what good is that? We have dozens of different commissions, we have plenty in the field of education and research, dozens of strategies, policies, concepts, and we're going to put another umbrella body in it, because ministers are weak, they're only there for a short time, and so here we're going to have some advice from the wise who's going to do something about our education. It won't! Let's not make this legal! It's just law-abiding. Let us not do such things as are bureaucratic, from the beginning doomed to failure, and the quality of education will bring nothing at all. Instead of really dealing with what the state is supposed to do, where it is an obligation for the state to deal with it, such as increasing inequality in the quality of education between individual regions, which is caused by poor funding, the Ministry should concentrate on this, so here we are getting a kind of ideologically colored proposal, measures in education that cannot, cannot lead to any good results and quality will not improve even a bit. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you've listened to me well or at least a little bit, you understand that I have the only option now, and that is to propose to the Chamber of Deputies that we reject this amendment to the law at first reading. Believe me, if we do, we will help our schools, our students and our students much more than if we accept this amendment here. And if you are really interested in the quality of education that Minister Valachová mentioned here, then support my proposal and vote with me for rejection at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u7	The chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura and after him the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I listened carefully to the Minister, her opening words, and confirmed my concern that this is an ideological bill. And I'm surprised at those government parties that don't call themselves left-wing parties to let such a proposal in. I think the Minister is part of the left wing of social democracy, as well as the proposal. I'm gonna try to comment on a few things from her opening words. There will be... I wasn't bothering you either, Madam Secretary, thank you. [[12.50 hours]] There will be a claim, there will be a claim for four-year-olds, for three-year-olds. And the Secretary of State's face is as if the state has secured the fulfilment of that claim. But the state won't do it unless, of course, a proposal comes up that kindergarten schools should not set up and finance municipalities and cities, but the state. It's very nice. We have years in the law, and all those who move in communal politics know what the financial consequences were, the idea then also of leftist politicians, that the last year of kindergarten is free. Why not? Except it's paid for by someone other than the one who determined it was free. That's just the way it is. So the first specific question to the Minister about how to ensure the fulfilment of that claim in every city, in every village, because he will be entitled to the law, but it has to be done by someone else, not by the state. I was quite amused by such popular mantras of those who see Brussels as the best good, the greatest good that comes to us when the Minister said that the mandatory last year of pre-school education - I think the combination of mandatory last year of pre-school education is a terrible phrase - is in line with the EU's trends. I suspected something like that, so I had statistics done on how it is in individual states. Well, I'll read it on the microphone so we can see what the trends are. Belgium is not compulsory, Bulgaria is. Now hit: Croatia, popular Croatia, has it too, so we already have two states: Bulgaria and Croatia. Also in Denmark. It is not in Estonia, it is not in Finland, it is not in France, it is not in Ireland, it is not in Italy, it is not in Iceland, it is in Cyprus, it has been there even since four years. It's not in Lithuania, it's in Latvia, it's not in Luxembourg, it's in Hungary, it's not in Malta, it's not in Germany, it's not in the Netherlands, it's in Poland, it's not in Portugal, it's in Austria, it's not in Romania, it's in Greece, it's not in Slovakia, it's not in Slovenia, it's not in the United Kingdom, it's not in Spain, it's not in Sweden. So where are the trends? When we look at it, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Latvia, Poland, Austria, Greece have a compulsory final year of pre-school education. This is certainly a distinct minority, so I don't know what trends we're talking about here. In principle, we are expanding, while the Minister claims that this is not the case, but compulsory schooling. Are we creating an agenda, are we going to investigate, or are we not going to examine the attendance of those children when it's mandatory? Are they gonna wear note cards, or aren't they gonna wear note cards, or what? It's pretty simple today. And what happens when it's mandatory for the five-year-olds if they don't come to kindergarten? Will they be wearing a doctor's certificate? From your parents? From who? Will they have an excuse and an unforgivable absence like in elementary school? Who's gonna evaluate that it's still okay and when it's not. Will they be able to go on vacation with their parents if they are required? Will they be excused? Then what a duty in that case. So it will be administratively demanding, the administration will, of course, fall on someone else, not on the state, it will fall on those founders, which are mostly municipalities and cities and individual kindergartens. Madam Secretary, I think he sincerely believes that by amending the law, we will increase the quality of teaching. I just don't believe it. We can create some conditions, but if we change the law, even this one, increase the quality of teaching, we certainly can't. President Fiala has already mentioned mandatory entrance exams - and once again an incredible claim to me. By centralizing something, I will reduce the administrative intensity. That is what I would like to see, on the basis of what and what calculations this Ministry of Education has done. It's gonna be CERMAT, we already know who's gonna do it, it's gonna be more expensive than it is today, but it's gonna be easier administratively. I really don't believe that, and I would ask for some arguments as to what kind of administration will fall away if it's so good when it's from the central level. And what would be the level if there were uniform entrance exams when we were comparing the courses with graduation and grammar school? Or is it going to be the same thing as the maths, where instead of having one state, if possible, of some kind of least defined need, what do we want, so what's the quality of the individual SATs? And why are we doing this? Are today's exams bad for high school? Yes or no? And if we know they're bad somewhere, what are we doing with it at the Department of Education? And do we know that when it's organized, it's going to be significantly better than when individual directors do it? What does this faith come from? Or does it bother the D.O.D. that some high schools don't organize entrance exams? Then a substantial question: Does the Ministry consider or does it not think that pupils who pass the ninth grade have little knowledge? If so, we won't be able to catch up with the entrance exams. We will not change the knowledge of pupils who graduate from primary school just by having a uniform entrance exam. And then, and I think that's an important question to me is whether those pupils who shouldn't actually get there are going to high school, and they don't have enough assumptions to successfully graduate from high school. And if we answer yes, and those are the questions I ask the Minister, all four of them, I ask how the trend and this fact will change the mandatory uniform entrance exam. And I'm going back to the quality. So if the quality is set to those where the most talented kids don't go, it'll just be a formality for the talented. To high school. Then how will the directors choose if the single entrance exam is quite simple? On the contrary, if we set that level to grammar school, what happens to those kids who can't master a unified entrance exam? We're automatically shutting them out? I think we have more questions here than answers. The state here, the government and the Ministry of Education, I think shows mistrust of the ability of high school directors to set their own rules so that they themselves bear the responsibility of what kind of children, what kind of students they take to their high school. But it'll be one thing. And our left-wing colleagues think it's better because it's coming from downtown. So the basic question of why we're doing this, we haven't gotten the answer yet, and I believe we're gonna get the answer in that debate, except that it's gonna be more expensive, I think we know that. But that shouldn't be the motive, I'm sure we can agree on that. And again, high schools have a lot of land. If we feel that the regions aren't doing their part in the reduction, because optimization is just a word so that it doesn't offend anyone, I think many agree, when the opinion of the professional public is constantly being expressed here today, I think that the opinion of the professional public is that we have too much, especially in some fields, unlike technical disciplines. The last point I'm gonna make is for math. And that's what Chairman Fiala said. We're putting a lot of emphasis on graduation here. The state is changing the rules repeatedly, one step there, two steps back, one step ahead again, but if it's not a connection with the college entrance exam, then we're really just playing with it. From what the Minister said about the math graduation, and I'm a strong supporter of compulsory math, or at least some state guaranteed part of it, it shows me that Czech language teachers and foreign languages teachers at primary schools are doing well, so students are going to be graduating from it, and those math teachers aren't doing well, so we have to postpone the math graduation, preferably after the first students have a uniform exam. If it wouldn't be better if you proposed compulsory schooling from the age of five when you pushed it through, then count it from the age of five, and then it would be about 16 years, i.e. kindergarten, then elementary school and then high school and then graduation, so I get about 14 years when everything goes well, maybe 15 or 16, when a kid doesn't get into kindergarten when he's six, but seven. [[13.00 hours]] I don't know. Instead of thinking about what happens to the teaching of mathematics - if we all have similar experiences, children like to learn to count and within a few years is mathematics, undeserved in my eyes, an extremely unpopular subject. How so? What's going on? What happened? Instead of dealing with this, we're making up a mandatory preschool from five, a single exam, a delay. But that has nothing to do with the quality of math teaching. Is it? Maybe I'm wrong. I didn't find anything in the bill to help make math not a feared subject. And very often, many of my colleagues and colleagues who do not have technical education say: what good will this do us? I don't know what it's gonna do us. I think it's part of a normal high school background. If we want graduation to have any weight, that should include some penzum of knowledge in mathematics. It's not a simple debate, I admit. That the supporters of compulsory math school don't have a majority, I admit that, too, that's that. But I, as a graduate of technical school, am not surprisingly in favour of doing this, but to focus on what will happen from the first class, when children like to learn to count that suddenly when the primary school ends, mathematics is so unpopular and so feared, in my opinion, completely unnecessary. And that's what the bill doesn't solve and it can't solve. I don't believe that if we write a better paragraph - and if we put the whole paragraph in the spirit of what the Secretary of State said, modern trends, it doesn't make any difference to each other that mathematics is great, children. I think that the proposal for rejection at first reading is justified, that paradoxically, no change is better than rapid and reckless changes. And I believe that the Minister will answer the seven questions I have asked during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u9	There is now one factual remark from Mr Brázdil. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u10	Thank you for your word. Excuse me, I would have responded very briefly to Mr Fiala's speech whether or not compulsory pre-school attendance was done. Please, man, when he's born, he comes up with some intellect, the ability to react to the environment. He doesn't have to read, write, count, but he'll be able to respond to the surrounding area. During his life, he acquires intelligence at school... I said it backwards, I'm sorry. With intelligence, we are born, and we acquire intellect during our studies. And where's the upbringing? We have a lot of smart people today, but are they raised? Facebook... Where are the parents? They're neglected... They're worried. Kids raise maybe money -- here, and go sideways. I wouldn't so much dismiss the fact that maybe this kindergarten, mandatory last year of kindergarten, could contribute to raising people. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u11	President Stanjura wants to respond in the form of a factual comment. You have space and two minutes to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u12	Well, that's an idea clash. Raising belongs to the family. No kindergarten. Don't be mad at me, my colleague, through the President, we're really not going to agree. You're right to criticize some of the parents, and I'm not going to join that criticism. But the idea of taking this rude kid to kindergarten or school and marrying a raised kid in the afternoon is just unreal. That's a long-term confrontation. I don't think the role of parents can substitute for kindergarten or school. Let's not ask those teachers. They can't substitute the role of parents. And in this, they have an extremely difficult role to play. And sometimes when they want to sub the role, it doesn't feel right, because it's those parents who might even accept the help that often complain about how those canteens allow something not in education, but in education. So that's what we blame for this bill. The idea that if I were to apologize to five-year-olds, attendance, etc., that it would contribute to education, I think it's wrong. But I admit that many left-wing politicians unfortunately believe this idea.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u13	The rapporteur has a factual point and the Minister also wants a factual point? [[Yes.]] Then after Mr. Chairman Mihol. First, the rapporteur has two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u14	Thank you. I just make one note of mathematics because it's a very often downsized word. You know, I don't think math is such an unpopular subject. I even think that most teachers can teach him and teach him well. The problem is somewhere else. The problem is when we look at the composition of classes at second grade, the number of pupils in classes, the hourly subsidy - and I'm going to give a completely model example. Thirty pupils in the class, of which five with disabilities under existing legislation, four with health disadvantages and four-hour subsidies to mathematics weekly. Try teaching in that classroom at a regular elementary school, and then we'll talk about how well we're gonna do and how many of those pupils we're gonna do in that class to love math. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u15	In fact, Mrs Semelová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u16	Thank you. Good afternoon. I just wanted to respond to Mr Stanjura's words about education and the fact that the school cannot substitute for family education. Of course, in that family, there must be a foundation for every child's upbringing. However, the current reality is that the school, whether we want to or not, is already subduing the upbringing, because in many families, there is no time for a child to sit in front of a computer or run somewhere with a key on his neck, and the upbringing is not. Including the fact that in our country, and in the end we saw the last surveys, there are 600 ghettos, where 150 thousand live. People where the upbringing is probably a little different than it should be. So at this point in time, the school is subduing family education, and in a number of cases, that's a good thing, because at least some of the child's upbringing is getting. And as far as parents are complaining about teachers replacing upbringing, this has to do with the prestige of teachers. I think that we should work together to increase the prestige of teachers, because it is true that now how many times some parents come to school to complain instead of looking at how they raise their own children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u17	Now, Prime Minister Mihola's priority right and after him, the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words on the amendment to the School Act. I would like to begin by saying that KDU-ČSL is prepared to support this amendment at first reading. That doesn't mean there's no way it's such a 100 percent consistency, it's a problem-free issue. After all, you know and the debate here suggests that the school area is always very sensitive. There's always a great variety of views. However, on some of these points, I will trust the Minister. For example, in the matter that we signed up for in the electoral program, we have promised entitlement to a kindergarten for children from the age of three. It will be gradual steps, at first from the four years, but it will come to three years. I very much welcome this, and I am an optimist, and I believe that this will indeed be a problem-free issue and will come true. It is clear that the neuralgic point of this amendment to the school law is the mandatory year of preschool education. I'm almost afraid that in the end, the whole material, it's not two or three pages, doesn't go back to this one much discussed point here. Those concerns are justified. Because if we remember the last amendment to school law, I feel like we're just talking about individual education. But I'll come back to that in my speech. [[13.10 hours]] With regard to the compulsory pre-school year, there are different opinions, there are different countries that are taking this into account in different ways, as has been said here, Croatia and Bulgaria have it; Germany does not have a compulsory pre-school year. I don't know if there's any explicit way to say that this or this option is better and that it's conclusive. We'll see about that. In any case, KDU-ČSL, and I would like to emphasise this, has advocated the development of a coalition contract for us to have an alternative in the form of domestic, i.e. individual education. And not so much as an option that is not a bureaucratic burden and God knows what complexity, but an alternative. I also insist that we didn't save the forest kindergarten so that the child would go to the forest nursery for the first two years and then have to go to some state stone school. I'm sure you didn't. It has already been said from the rapporteur's mouth that there is a possibility that forest kindergartens will also use the choice of individual education. I would consider it more optimal, but I would consider that forest kindergartens are really a full alternative and that we can get into this state in the course of discussing this amendment, and that is what I am going to put myself in. There could also be long debates on what pre-school compulsory education is supposed to contribute to. I also discussed this at the Faculty of Education, at my original workplace, including the Dean and other colleagues, so he is inclined to the compulsory preschool year. Among other things, children who do not have basic habits, such as discipline or hygiene, often go to the first class. This will then allow first - grade teachers to devote more to their classroom education than to have to devote energy and time to children without habits and catching up to them. Very common pre-school delays have been mentioned here. As far as bureaucracy is concerned with domestic education, I would point out a comparison here. Take a look at the previous material of exministra Chládek. I think there is a considerable shift towards simplification in what the Minister has put forward. I also want the law of individual, or domestic, second degree education to be part of the amendment. In discussing the last school amendment, I promised, and I am prepared to keep that promise. Of course, I can't do this alone, but I'm counting on coalition colleagues. I'm sure Professor Rais will comment on the subject. I see him logged in. But I am also discussing this issue carefully with colleagues from the TOP 09, Ms. Professor Putnová, Mrs. Nováková and others, as well as with colleagues from the ODS. In that sense, I also informed the Minister. It is also discussed with the Association of Home Education. It will actually create a possibility of home-schooling as alternatives from preschool to the second grade of primary school within the framework of this amendment. I think that's definitely good news. We should not lose sight of this, and I miss this in the novel, and there will still be a chance to take it into account in some way, the care of talent. Some time ago, there was a lot of heated discussion about the support of talent through CTYOnline. I have heard from Mr. Exministri Chládek that we will have a Czech alternative, that this one is too expensive, that we can manage on our own. But I haven't noticed anything like that on the table yet. I'm just reminding you, because I think it's important to focus on both children who have problems or are weaker, as well as those who are very talented. In conclusion, only a brief statement on compulsory entrance exams from Czech and mathematics. As a teacher with 22 years of experience, I don't know if they'll bring what we expect from them. But I agree with what one of the previous speakers here, Professor Fiala, meant, I would not give up testing at the end of primary schools, but at the same time I would like to argue a little bit with some of the solutions that might be solutions for optimization, but for which virtually no party has the courage to deal with it. But I'm sure you know that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u19	Now, Mr Soukup - a point of fact. I will also apologize to Mr Šenfeld from 15 to 19 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, when we adopted the Children's Group Act, I was a great supporter of compulsory pre-school education. However, allow me to consider. I have some doubts. Let's get some pure wine. Preschool education doesn't really need children from inspiring families. It is primarily needed by children from families where they do not receive such care, where their stimulating development is not taking place. When the kids come to the first class, I remember, I have two kids, too, so in the first class, the rule is that you need kids to become something, at least six months or a year to go maximum. I don't think there's gonna be much incentive in these families. There is a question as to whether the year of pre-school education will be lost. Then there's the thought. Madam Secretary, I heard you the other day, I'm glad to hear you, I believe, in Partie. This is a term of inclusive education. I have a little doubt here, too. On the one hand, you promoted inclusive education, and on the other hand, you said that there would be an opportunity and that extraordinarily gifted children would be supported. How are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u21	Thank you. And now we can advance. This is Mrs Nina Nováková. Madam Secretary. I'm sorry. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the debate under way. I originally wanted to listen carefully and respond to all the arguments that have been made, but, given the richness of the debate, I will be able to respond now. I cannot, of course, completely ignore the subjects or criticisms made by Professor Fiala or President Stanjura. Of course, I must reject some ideological charge of the government's proposal, or perhaps a socialist freak would suddenly come at me. I'm trying to approach the secretary's office professionally and responsibly. It's not some blind follow-up to my predecessor, but the point is that this government, and that's legitimate, has made a promise to its constituents. It turned into an agreement into a coalition agreement, turning it into a programming statement, and what is the most thorn in the eye in this amendment, pre-school education, is therefore part of it. So, as a government minister, I perform the tasks of a government that it has committed itself to towards its constituents and towards its citizens. [[13.20 hours]] With regard to pre-school education and doubt, on the one hand, to Professor Fiala in terms of whispering from Brussels and warning against comparisons, or the comparison that Mr Stanjura presented on the microphone, here I would just like to say that President Stanjura said that the United Kingdom or Switzerland did not have compulsory pre-school education. All I'm saying here is that it's only half true, because the UK really doesn't have pre-school education in the case of England and Scotland and Wales, but on the other hand, compulsory schooling starts at the age of 5 years. In the case of Northern Ireland, it is even the case that compulsory schooling begins at the age of 4 years. In the case of Switzerland, this is the case that compulsory pre-school education is not in place in general, but in 18 cantons, attendance is compulsory in the last year or in the last two years before entry into primary education. And from the point of view of any Brussels whispering, I just want to say that I did not make this foreign comparison, although I used the formulation of the EU country, from the point of view that I would perhaps go to Brussels for advice, but because international comparisons from the OECD point of view or PISA's opinions clearly show that pre-school education is desirable and means better training for basic education or, even then, success in the field of occupational competence, and it does not matter whether we are talking about children from a stimulating or inexcusable environment. I refuse to have a debate on different categories of children, and I stand by the fact that, from a technical point of view, it is clear from the OECD and PISA point of view that pre-school education is desirable. With regard to how countries approach this, colleagues in the debate are certainly right that someone is going the way of compulsory pre-school education, someone is going by shifting the start of compulsory schooling and someone, true, is going the way of access to pre-school education and leaving further regulation aside. I consider all three approaches legitimate. We chose one of these options. The truth is that we may not have to call it compulsory pre-school education in the last year, perhaps if we call it regular pre-school education in terms of the rules that we specify, so it will be the same, because I repeat again, 100,000 children go to pre-school education from 5 to 6 years, 10,000 does not use this method of education for various reasons. If I had allowed myself to borrow with a certain exaggeration the fear of Professor Fiala from my obsession, I would have to say that 100,000 parents are clearly obsessed and even more obsessed are the parents who have long asked governments, whether right-wing or left-wing, to ensure real capacity for their children's access to pre-school education, much sooner than they have been five years old. Again, I mean, we don't want to bureaucratize anything. I said that one of the principles of introducing compulsory pre-school education is also to maintain the possibility of alternatives. We're totally leaving them. Of course, examples that were more or less practical, where President Stanjura asked questions from the point of view of vacations, diseases, how this will take place. It will be exactly the same as it is today and what experience we have as parents of children in kindergartens - we will write and apologize to the child in the book. We don't really expect anything else, and we're not going to! As for how precisely we define compulsory pre-school education, you have the implementation regulation at your disposal, and it is there after the professional debates that have been held that we define this compulsory pre-school education four hours a day, that is, in terms of whether we want to defend kindergarten as an educational institution, so you understand, without a doubt, not only as Members, but also as parents, that it is difficult to implement an education programme more quickly than within four hours, as already the framework education programme under pre-school education is. Our goal, why we took a mandatory attribute, which is so irritating here, is really to make it clear in this way, and it is legislative technology, of course we could have chosen another way, not for parents, because it is not too much obligation, I will get to it, but the obligations of the state, municipalities and regions in this really ensure compulsory pre-school education in that year from five to six and in the case of a claim even earlier, so that the right of access to pre-school education is not only on paper. And you, colleagues, will remember that parents have been dissatisfied for at least 10 years with what this law looks like in practice, and the fixation of capacity in the future, when the demographic curve will start to fall and where, for economic reasons alone, this could lead to the fact that these capacities, which we are for the large money of municipalities and regions, are also undoubtedly, but also of the state, and we, as a government, have invested big money in this infrastructure, we will still invest and we have allocated them - one billion towards the infrastructure of municipalities, when they are property of municipalities, within two years, and at the same time I also add European money from the perspective of the IROP operational programme negotiated by the Ministry of Regional Development. I don't feel like we're paying attention to the needs of municipalities in terms of their investment needs. If any criticism I have heard from the community's parties sounds, it is a criticism in terms of lack of so-called. Reconstruction investment money, but fellow Members, be sure to solve this problem as well. With regard to secondary schools and why we are centralising again, why we are introducing uniform admission procedures. Professor Fiala actually gave a little indication in his contribution. Yes, we are also trying to respond in this way to the fact that a student is being hunted, and we are trying to respond to the fact that, without admission procedures, children with very poor benefits are getting into high school, whether public but also owed private delivery. With regard to the optimization of secondary schools and perhaps some hinted inactivity of the regions, I would just like to say that within the regions they are very complaining about a situation where they achieve optimization, which is very often bloody redeemed politically, and where the public school was abolished, there will be a private school, which, of course, is recruiting pupils without admissions. Since I understand that at least part of the Chamber of Deputies is looking forward to changing the financing of regional education, I can only promise what I promised before that these changes will be submitted at the turn of the year, in the case of the Chamber of Deputies in the first quarter. I look forward to the fact that, in this case, changes in regional education funding, as it appears, will be supported across the political spectrum. As to why we are introducing uniform entrance exams, we are actually going in a softer form to make parents and pupils more aware of the quality of individual schools. We did not go the way that we would sort schools into better and worse, I think that colleagues know that it is not a question of month or year, but really resetting the system and probably using the school register for the future, but we went in a softer form when, in the case of Czech and mathematics, we would compare the knowledge of pupils, and then we introduced into the law an obligation for school directors to introduce in the course of the final examinations, of course not specifically, but anonymously, a successful candidate entering their school. It is a softer form, I would say almost clearly nonsocialistic, which shows parents and children how much the school stands and how hard it is to get at it or how much it devotes itself to really educate the best. I'm afraid if we chose so-called. Cut off score, which has been discussed, my colleagues would criticize me for personalizing the right to decide who can study and who does not have to. Without a doubt, I would learn that it is up to parents or pupils to choose freely. I say that I have tried to balance not only professional opinions but also the political views of all political parties as I had the opportunity to hear them in the context of the political debate as part of the final amendments to the amendment to the School Act. It is clear that everyone will not be satisfied with all the details. [[13.30 hours]] As far as graduation is concerned, here I admit that I would also like to have greater ties to universities, to the amendment to the Higher Education Act, where there would be a greater link between graduation exams and admission procedures within universities. I admit this, but, of course, even if it is not in this amendment, it does not mean that it will never happen, and I am prepared for a debate with Members on this matter. As regards the written work and their evaluation from Czech against the foreign language, I deliberately pointed out this change in effectiveness and it is a matter that I am very inclined to be interested in the views of Members and Members. I made it clear that professionally, the groups did not agree completely. After all, it is also for the Chamber of Deputies to hear from Members and Members across the political spectrum, as they evaluate the proposal, because they represent different groups of citizens in terms of voters. I consider a substantive debate within the Chamber of Deputies to be quite legitimate. With regard to the criticism of mathematics teaching that we will not help with graduation anything, as some scourge that should perhaps scare pupils to death, so they will start learning terribly and will enjoy teaching mathematics, I certainly do not think so, that is also the reason for the delay. I have announced an adjustment to the framework education programme, which I will certainly not go from one day to the next. However, I have announced that we are keeping the current school year 2015/2016 for this, and I am prepared to invite colleagues to this debate who have expressed their ambition to focus on the content of this subject as it is taught. From the point of view of evaluating the tests, what it will bring us from the point of view of uniform entrance exams, as President Stanjura asked the question, so it will bring us that today, of course, everyone does it their own way. This involves costs, time of teachers and educators and, in the case of a single award through a single test, they will have the result very quickly within the order of days, they will not have to evaluate it and, above all, I think that it is good, if pupils use applications for two schools, they will pass the exam at these two schools, so then the test will be evaluated by the succession of Cermat and the better result of the common part will be used, which will be sent to these two schools. I consider this to be a very effective measure from the point of view of administrative complexity. In addition, it is also favourable towards pupils and to get their focus right and to choose their field. And as far as criticism is concerned about the simplicity of the graduation exam, I confess, I am not satisfied with the level of the graduation exam as set up today. Right here, it was said that it was not a question of setting the law. In this case, there is no need to argue, and I would like to say that my medium-term goal, and I hope that my followers will also respect it, is to increase the intensity of the graduation exam against the current state. After all, I've never kept secrets from that, either. In conclusion, of course, without wishing to upset colleagues from the opposition, I would like to repeat again from the point of view of imposing obligations on someone else: Money in infrastructure, investments are the biggest that have ever been. Payroll money has already been sent by the state, it will be better from the point of view of targeting after the submission of changes in regional education funding, that is what we are working on. We choose money for a higher number of kindergartens in kindergartens using templates only because the demographic wave shifts and it is certainly more economically efficient to choose this method of financing. However, it is the first time that the number of governesses will increase in this way at all. This also has to do with reducing the number of children in classrooms and indeed wanting to have more quality education, more individually targeted. And as to what I'm definitely going to do to my colleagues, I can't say that, of course, we have RUD here, and not every thing that is administered through law means that everything has to be paid by the state budget. I merely point out that, of course, I am aware that we are, I would say, after a heated debate, in view of the fact that the RUD has not been improved in any way by the municipalities. However, in terms of the specific effects of pre-school education, I am actively communicating with both the Union of Cities and the Association of Local Authorities, I do not only take the legal regulation of ensuring the availability of pre-school education within 4 km of the region and actually communicate with specific municipalities to know their specific plans, their concrete development of demographic situation, as they estimate, so that it is not only on paper, but also that municipalities do not remain alone in this. I dare say that this is the first time the Minister has communicated with them so intensively. So, once again, I would like to ask Members, although school subjects are passionate and emotional, for the opportunity, as Secretary, to defend this amendment in the course of further negotiations, and I therefore ask all Members to kindly release this amendment into further reading and allow the debate in the committees that I am looking forward to. Of course, I will try to guide it as effectively, as professionally as possible and with the maximum support of the amendments made by individual Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u23	I thank the Minister. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Before I give the floor to Mr Michal Kučer, two more apologies. First of all, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes today from 13.30 to 15.00. for work reasons. Subsequently, Mr René Číp apologizes for today's House meeting at 17.00. No reason to. So now, with a point of fact, Mr Michal Kučera, then President Stanjura, President Fiala and Mr Jiří Koskuba. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u24	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not here to comment on the Minister's words whether or not the socialist spirit has enlightened her. I'm not even gonna comment on that, or the belief that the state can raise my child better than I can. That's a classic socialist view of the world. I'm not taking it. However, I strongly disagree with him. But what I want to touch is the funding. The secretary here mentioned the budgetary determination of taxes. I don't know if the secretary noticed that we turned down two billion for the municipalities here last week. Two billion for the municipalities were rejected by the People's Party, rejected by the ANO movement and rejected by the ČSSD. A government coalition, I mean. I am personally convinced, and I am, of course, a representative in our city no longer of the first term of office, and I believe that the municipalities themselves can decide whether one or two classes in kindergarten need to be increased or not. What I need is money. You didn't approve the money. You didn't approve the money! We don't need any special-purpose subsidies. We need a decent budget. We know how to deal with the money ourselves. If we know in the village that one class needs to be established, we can help each other within our budget. You guys have rejected the tax budget, two billion for the municipalities, and now you're going to tie it to some special-purpose subsidies. I strongly disagree with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u25	I thank Mr Kučer. With another point of fact, President Zbyněk Stanjura, then President Fiala, followed by Mr Koskuba. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u26	Then I'll loosen up. Madam Secretary, it was our government that put the number of pupils as a parameter of motivation for municipalities to get more money from the budget tax determination than a municipality that doesn't set up the school. I think that's the right approach. The fact that you rejected the RUD increase, your party colleagues, almost all of them, were not all, I was aware of the vote, that is what Mr Kučera said. I didn't even say that all costs should be paid by the state and municipalities, cities and regions not. I'm just saying, if the state gives a new obligation, it's supposed to send money with it. For example. I would expect you yourself to initiate that the last free year will be paid by the state and not by municipalities and cities, because it was the rule of the state. I'd expect you to push it when you're looking at it like that. We'll see, maybe the changeling will get your support. But about what you said in response to my questions. You actually said nothing would change in that kindergarten, it would be the same as before. That's what you said. Then why are we changing it! And then I want to ask you what we're gonna do with families where their kids won't go to preschool education on average four hours a day. How do we enforce it? And with that, no administration, no enforcement, no coercion? I think it will be. Because whether you like it or not, let us not mix up the duty and voluntary decision of parents. If most parents send children to kindergartens today, it's their decision, it's okay. And you said three times that you weren't possessed, you're not possessed. I didn't say anything like that. But the left is obsessed with 100% duty, by keeping it. běda, if one escapes! The fact that we've been discussing this individual home education here for a year and a half, and it concerns a few families in fact, but it was dangerous for you because it wouldn't be 100 percent under the curate of the state, and that's dangerous. [[13.40 hours]] Neither did I. I wasn't talking about Switzerland at all. You used... I didn't talk about Switzerland at all, so you could teach me how it is in Switzerland. This is also not in the EU, which is why I did not talk about it because you said it was in line with the EU's trends, and I told you about specific states that there are no such trends. [[Time warning]] For example, Finland, which is given as a success in education policy, does not have a compulsory pre-school and at the same time -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u27	Ambassador, I'm sorry -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u28	Vice-President, I'll have it quicker than you. - At the same time, school attendance starts at seven.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u29	Mr Member, I am obsessed with keeping time limits, so please prepare another Member with a factual remark, and this is President Petr Fiala. And please let him be obsessed with following my time limit, which I'm turning on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u30	Yes, I'll do my best. I know some of our colleagues here are nervous about gambling, but this is a big gamble with the future of our children, it's more important. It's more important than discussing gambling. I'm glad we're having a debate, as the secretary said. But I also have a political debate, which is also important and also correct. It is clear that we have other ideas in political debate, which does not prevent anything. We just have to have this kind of debate, and it's really a big deal. But let us not confuse some things that are simply not to be confused. When we talk about parents asking the State to provide sufficient capacity in kindergartens, this does not mean that they want compulsory preschool education. That has absolutely nothing to do with it, and it's mixing pears with apples. There's been a lot of stuff about education in schools. Well, yes, of course school, preschool education, elementary school, high school have their own educational function. No one's questioning that. But, of course, parenting doesn't make up for it. And if anyone thinks you're gonna introduce compulsory pre-school education and improve their ability to wash their hands or tie their shoelaces, maybe so, but you're about to find out that these kids are going to compulsory pre-school education unprepared. So we're going to have to introduce another year where they're going to have to prepare for compulsory preschool education again so they have the same starting conditions. It's nonsense. Then the Minister argued that in Britain, children start elementary school at the age of five. Okay, at the age of five, but how long? After the 11th year of education ends high school, then continues 12th, 13th year and finished. But we have nine plus four here, and now we're going to add another one, so we're going to be 14 years old. Besides, they don't all go to that 13th year in England. And besides, in Britain, those people - the last sentence - usually go to college for three years. In our country, 86 percent of university students have been studying for five years. So our kids have been in school for an extremely long time, and you're gonna add one more year. It doesn't make any sense. Education in Britain is no worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u31	That was a very long sentence, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Another duly registered point of fact is Mr Jiří Koskuba, followed by Mr Ivan Pilný, followed by Mr Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't normally have the habit of talking to something I don't understand so much. However, I feel the duty of the Government Member to stand up for the Minister, because her response to the opening of this long debate was very relevant to me, and I beg that someone here should use the terms of socialist and ideological madness, with all due respect. I have heard only one ideological speech here, and I am sorry that not only did the chairman of the great opposition party present it, it is from the ODS, but to everything university teacher, once with a high role in school. It's not a personal invective, please, but you're talking about education here. The President of the ODS spoke here in a speech about what we want to change, etc. With all due respect, ladies and gentlemen, I have never interfered, I have never been the Minister of Education, but I see where education has gone after 25 years of reform. Let's actually focus on a substantive debate, let's talk about what I have a personal interest in, it's a need for a secondary health education that ended up with an absolute tragedy. Let's talk about, not that we have too many high schools, but why do we even drive people to graduation, college degrees, Bachelor degrees, etc. Let's talk about why the teaching list in this society is not enough to make a person feel full and find their own application on the market. Guys, if we talk about this, I'm willing to continue listening to the discussions. And I see a lot of teachers coming after me, maybe leading me out of a mistake. I don't want to discuss the others much, nor will I. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u33	The Member spoke so wisely that I would let him stay longer, but he fit within the time limit. Another duly registered member is Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honest colleagues and colleagues. I don't think the Minister of Education can defend the relationship between the need to change the total teaching of mathematics and uniform maths or maths. The connection just doesn't exist. The need to change this is obvious because applied mathematics has a huge future in all fields. In medicine, in economics, not in industry. These people have a great career ahead of them, and this country needs them. The second thing I would expect from the law is strong support for talent. Because there are only two economies, one is an economy of resources, and this country is exhausted, or never had them, and an economy of talent. We should not lose the only talent this country has given us. And it's not enough just to resist, for example, that the subsidies for foreign internships of high school students at Johns Hopkins University have been abolished. There's something that needs to be done, and I would expect this law to make some kindergarten change in that sense, because otherwise we're talking really, really, uh, proxy problems, who's going to finance the last year at kindergarten, etc. That's not a big deal. A major problem would be that we should support the talents that the country cannot lose, and this law, in my opinion, certainly does not yet do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u35	I thank Mr Pilný. Another point of fact is Mr Stanjura, Mr Bendl, followed by Mr Fiala, Mr Kučera reporting for him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u36	Thank you for the floor. So my honored colleague, Mr Koskuba, also gave a political speech, and it is perfectly okay. But I'll be back. I didn't have time to ask. Madam Secretary said the director would accept the last one he wants to accept. I'm paraphrasing that a little bit with the individual SATs. I understand if 80 kids report, there'll be 80 seats available. So it doesn't matter how the '80s turn out, and it will be accepted. I didn't quite understand the principle. My question was, and I wanted to talk about the high school of health, which was also referred to by Mr Koskuba. What happens if a handy girl who wants to study high school health school doesn't take a uniform entrance exam, for example, of mathematics? Isn't he gonna get into high school or get into medical school? So we're playing some kind of audition that everyone has to do, aren't we? Or should we just take the order? But then we don't have to call it united... Then it's some sort of order, somewhere there's a line. It works where the overhang is today, so it works at the regular school with the fact that they have the entrance exams themselves, if they have more kids who apply than they have in classes. The director's gonna draw a line somewhere, and that's it. I didn't quite understand the answer. If that's the way I understand it, we're just playing the single entrance exam. It is not important, there will be no level yes or no and it will always be relative order as today, there is no change. Then I don't know why we call it that. Or change is, there's gonna be some level, and whoever doesn't get in front of her doesn't get into a specific school. And then I want to see who sets the level. I am not entirely interested in the implementing regulation because such things are meant to be clear to parents in the law, and not in any implementing regulation, even if I understand that they are being formed or in some form they will simply be. I'd like to explain. If I have 80 applicants, 80 kids, the last one doesn't do it, it doesn't write anything, but it's going to be 80. He'll be accepted, won't he? Where's the divide, the imaginary line? Those who over it, parents and children are satisfied, go to the high school they chose, and the footnotes are those who are not satisfied that they did not get.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u37	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Petr Bendl, followed by Mr Fiala, Mr Kučera, followed by Mr Beznoska, followed by Mr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u38	Thank you for the floor. I am therefore duly enrolled in the debate, but because I see that it will reach me when, and because I was inspired by my colleague Koskuba, with whom - perhaps I will surprise - I very much agree, because we were the ones who criticized the constant use of the state on educated people who are moving in whatever field, whether it is education or health care. That maybe high school isn't enough, or college isn't enough, because another specialization is needed. Jan Amos Komensky University, it's a specialty here, Madam Secretary, because this is how she sent 700 people into absolute existential insecurity. And, by the way, the same mistake happened with the paramedics: lack of nurses, but there was an obligation on them that it was not enough to have a high school, it is necessary to have further education. Absolute nonsense, but because it's missing, there's a socialist way of doing it in order to get around it. They're one and the same mistakes as in this school bill. I very much agree with Mr Koskuba that we should talk about the essentials and not about when it happens that we will make it worse when we go to kindergarten. I'm from Central Bohemia. There were fewer buses because the kids started riding for free, also socialist decorations. That's why we have less traffic services here. And if there is no capacity, what will the Minister do? He's gonna say, well, he's got to pay off his own money, so I've heard that before. And instead, you're voting against giving these communities an extra crown. But that high school kid, he might get somewhere in high school. If not for this gymmet to Salty, then for example to Kladno or Beroun. But a kid who doesn't go to primary school yet, that's where his parents have to bring him. And if the buses don't go there, I guess social democracy buys them cars.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u39	I thank Mr Bendl. Another point of fact is Mr Fiala, Mr Kučera, Mr Beznoska, Mr Kořenek, Mr Novotný, followed by Mr Kořenek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u40	Thank you. So did I, as Petr Bendl said here, that he agrees with what Mr Koskuba here said, so did I, but only from the 27th second of his point of view. I don't agree with the first 27 seconds. That's when he started accusing me here - or blaming me, it doesn't bother me that I gave an ideological speech, but when he said it was wrong in terms of what I did in college before, what I held to be the Minister of Education. So, through Mr President, I would like to assure Mr Koskuba that I had the same views as the Professor of Political Science, as the Rector of Masaryk University and as the Minister of Education, that I publicly held them and that I am not ashamed of them, they are based on my view of the state and society, and they are based on my expertise. And I'm glad to present them here as President of the Civil Democratic Party. If you've listened to me well, there's been a lot of arguments in my speeches about why we shouldn't adopt this law and why it's wrong. The only reason I can imagine being promoted here is because the idea is that the state can handle education better than that only their parents decide how to prepare for school. To me, it's an expression of some kind of left-wing view of the world. But I do not see the left-wing view of the world from my side as an insult, I see it as a competitive, competitive view of a world with which I do not agree, but with which I want to have a serious discussion. So I beg you to take this view and accept from me the assurance that my views, which I present here, are long-term opinions, based on my human beliefs and my expertise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u41	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Mr Kučera, Mr Beznoska, Mr Kořenek, Mr Novotný, followed by Mr Kořenek, Mr Kučera, followed by Mr Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u42	Thank you for the floor. I listened carefully to Mr Pilný, who quite rightly said that we have two economies. One is the economy of resources and the other is the economy of talent. If Mr Pilný had been here, I would have told him that this government had already decided which way to go. She decided to break the mining limits through resources, and this law shows that she doesn't give a damn about the talent economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u43	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Beznoska, Mr Kořenek, Mr Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll get involved in the debate. Of course, as colleagues from the ODS - it's nonsense, and that's what I'm meeting here, and I still can't compare it to how people who become members of the House start thinking about how to organize their lives. The primary school, as it worked for years of flying, preschool education for years flying as I thought it worked, was not the main problem that had to be solved. Then why are we doing this? Why compulsory annual pre-school education? I consider that a fatal mistake. The second fatal error is: entry to school. Every high school, every school should have a certain degree of sovereignty. And it's up to her to accept students at her discretion. Yes, let's check some output, let's make it an obligation for the student to overcome a certain minimum, which means that he has a level of knowledge at the level of the graduation exam. And one more topic that we haven't opened at all. In addition to those, and I understand Mr Koskuba very much about the nonsense that a nurse must have a higher vocational school, and we lack nurses, one topic that we have not opened is higher vocational education. The original concept of the higher vocational education was in the style and spirit of those Dutch polytechnics. Perhaps one higher vocational school on the edge, and not 152 or how many there are, higher vocational schools, whose quality is very dubious. And I am saying this with full knowledge that I have established a higher vocational school as the head of this project. Those are the important things that we should focus on and not make up how we're gonna organize their little children's parents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u45	Thank you, Mr Beznosk. With another factual remark, Mr Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My serious colleagues, my colleagues, then I am enrolled in a proper debate, but first I would like to stand up for the Minister in the sense that, as has been told, she has thrown 450 or how many university students into uncertainty, so this is seen to be the utter ignorance of the higher education law, when she, on the other hand, has done her utmost to enable them, or to allow some of them, to graduate. First of all. Secondly, I want to go back to the novel. Here I would say that we are talking about certain parts of the school law, which are currently not on the agenda of this amendment at all. So the novel has three parts, one for kindergartens, the other for entrance exams, the third for graduation exams. Let's get back to these topics, because they're on the agenda. As for the other topics, of course, they will be opened gradually, but they are not on the agenda of this amendment at the moment, this proposal. I would like to say so much so that we really return to constructive debate and stick to the subject. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u47	I thank Mr Novotný, I apologize to Mr Kořenka. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u48	Thank you. I only wanted to respond to UJAK. I will only add that Section 80 of the Higher Education Act clearly states that UJAK's leadership is responsible for graduating from students who knew that this problem was coming. But I want to respond to another thing, and that's working with talented and extremely talented. That's very common here. The school law makes it quite clear in Section 17 that the director has the opportunity to work with talented pupils. This is basically group work, optional subjects are created, it is up to the director how he organizes teaching and works with these pupils. [[14.00 hours]] But the amended Section 16, which talks about setting up support measures at five levels, concerns today both disabled and disadvantaged pupils and extremely talented. Anyone who passes the advisory system shall be entitled to such support. So first grade school, second grade, third grade, fourth grade, fifth grade. And that's how it is in follow-up legislation, that's what it means in the decree. So working with extraordinarily gifted pupils is treated after the amendment of the law and has always been treated there in some way. So I just want us not to talk about the fact that it doesn't exist or doesn't work. The truth is that if you are not completely oriented about the issue, that NIDV is currently working on the project Supporting talented young people, there is a Talentcentrum. So this question gradually goes far more to the fore than may have been seen in the past. So much to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u49	Thank you to the rapporteur. With Mrs Marta Semelová's final point of fact so far. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u50	Thank you. Let us respond to what has been said here from the ODS. If Mr Beznoska here is talking about leaving the directors of individual secondary schools to receive or not to accept, we can see where we have done this when it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, virtually. the State has been transferred together with insufficient or poor financing of regional education and the school directors decide. Everyone here is accepted just to fill schools. That's one thing. That means, I think that changing this system is very important. For the next one. Mr Fiala's statements that this is a return to socialist hell. Please, if you take it as a socialist hell that there was quality education here, when our students and students placed themselves at the top of international comparisons, when there was a high-quality education for apprentices, whose graduates had an application, then every reasonable person must applaud the socialist in your opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u51	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. With another factual remark, Mr Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u52	Thank you for the floor. A brief reaction only. I understand. I'm still a supporter before school accepts whomever it deems appropriate, let him work with the pupil, but let's measure the results with regard to the high school students. The margo notes of Ms. Semelová. And the second thing that opens up is the question of what's important. I said one segment here. Did we ever discuss the Czech School Inspection and its Rights and its Options, how to disable those schools that fail educational programs from the school network? That's the subject. And it's not a question of whether kids should go to school from 5:00 or 6:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u53	Thank you, Mr Beznosk. Another duly registered, actually the first duly registered, is Mrs Nina Nováková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, absent ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to make a few comments on this, and I am also glad that I have learned from the speeches made by some colleagues through the President that they have also read the press. [[The government bench is completely empty]] Of course, you can't say for all of them. When we were talking about an ideology or a fundamental approach here, I will also try to say how my approach and certainly other colleagues from the TOP 09 differ from the approach advocated by this amendment. The basic thing is that we talk and mix a bit of the obligation of education, the obligation to educate, the obligation to educate and the obligation to go to school. Here it would be very interesting to make an international comparison because somewhere there is really compulsory education and in our country it is compulsory to go to school. And that's what needs to be a very unorganic thing in this novel, because the Minister is quite intelligently trying to explain, and I think he means that this is about compulsory education, but we all know that the concept of our school is based on compulsory school attendance. Then we have another thing. No one is questioning, certainly none of us or anybody outside this Chamber of Deputies, that it is not possible to work with a child until he enters the first grade of primary school. Thus, it is clear that compulsory pre-school education is logically necessary already because none of us question the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and this is that the child has the right to take care of its proper development, both physical and intellectual, both the development of interpersonal relations, that the child has the right to be regulated in some way and at the same time to adopt appropriate attitudes, certain skills, for example, in establishing interpersonal relations and even in the world's vision. But what we're in complete contradiction is who has it for the child before he goes to elementary school, who has the duty to secure it. We believe that parents are obliged to do so because parents are primarily responsible for the healthy development of the child. So, from our point of view, parents are supposed to make sure of that. And then we can talk about where they're gonna make sure. So most parents are able to be sure, and therefore we were very angry about the spring amendment, where it was said that a parent could only attend home when he was graduating. That was awful. Of course, in this novel, God doesn't appear anymore. But even so, the parent has a responsibility, he certainly has an ability. And if he decides to carry out this responsibility through kindergarten schools set up by municipalities, etc. etc., so it has the right, but it has the right now, even before the first reading of the amendment to the school law. Parents have that right. If we were to get to the fact that she's here, and here we are again, we're not all looking at the world and the life of society a little bit from another side, if we were to get to the fact that she's here as a happy message that the right to have a child in kindergarten will be from four years old, then from three years old, we won't exceed two years, I don't think that's happy news. I think this is the report that we actually motivate parents to give up responsibility for raising their children, and secondly, that we almost like it when parents and children do not have a strong enough connection. But it's not just between parents and children, but it's also between the next generation that we're actually trying to put these kids in position, and that's what we're gonna be best at, and we're kind of forgetting that we're encouraging the next generation of children to grow up who, when their parents find themselves post-productive, they're also gonna want to put them in place. And once again, the state will ensure that they are placed. Do we live in a society where we focus only... and where it's best to be an adult at a working age? And we're gonna put the little kids and the seniors away? That's why we're so very, very embarrassed. This novel is going to do just that, too, with promises that we're going to go even further, virtually. children will sooner be under the influence of the state, sooner will be under the influence of the state. And with all due respect to teachers and tutors in kindergartens, they'll be... their basic attitudes will be determined by someone other than their parents. And often parents won't even know where it came from in those kids. [[14.10 hours]] Let me give you an example. I'm a gymnasium educator. In social science seminars and psychology classes, I often talked to these intelligent young people about what most marked their development. These youths often did not remember what was a year ago, but they all remembered their experiences in kindergarten. But those little kids won't say it at home, it's an unknown world that goes on in kindergarten. And then it's a couple of hours when it's gonna be okay that spends time with the parents' kids. I don't want to say again that the whole novel is wrong. I even disagree with fellow Members who say that it is not good for mandatory uniform entrance exams to return. Not because I don't trust the directors that they can't get an admission process, but because we actually have more and more high schools that kids just get into for free. They don't have to do anything about it. Their legal representatives will sign the application and take it somewhere. And so I live from my own experience in the fact that when I get to something completely free of charge, first I don't appreciate going to school, then we're surprised that the kids aren't motivated to study, and second, I'm going to check that I'm up for it, and then I'm going to have some strength and energy, even if I stumble, even if I can't do something, I'm going to say, well, I'm going to do it, I'm going to do it. As far as the amendment point on compulsory math exams is concerned, we could probably talk about it for a long time. For myself, because, as Mr Werich said, the victim of humanity crap, I have humanities education, I can say for myself that math and compulsory math exams show to me that we are unable to verify in any other way that a student who goes to graduation has learned to think critically and independently during his education. Maybe there's another way. We haven't figured out any better yet. So I'm not judging math school. But, and I have also said that through the President, if we say that it is in four years' time, the Minister may be here again in the new parliamentary term, but it is not certain, and we constantly come across the fact that there is, in fact, so much variable ground in education, so uncertain ground that no one believes anything. Now that we're here all of a sudden, they should have known about UJAK and had something to check out, and suddenly 700 people who are supposed to study something that we legally forced them to do, because mostly they're college kids, so they just don't believe it. Now they also have no reason to believe that there will be a mandatory graduation exam in 2020. Although I understand that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports may not be able to think of this better and that it is like catching that point so that they know it from the first year. But ladies and gentlemen, everyone, even though he has a primary school, must have some mathematical literacy. He doesn't have to be a senior at all. So some standard in education in the field of mathematics must be guaranteed and it is not true that it is not now guaranteed. We're just pushing it away for me again, and we're gonna be angry when we say to the schools in four years, you didn't prepare for it. Well, they're just getting ready for it by the people who like it right now because they know the school environment is unstable. And let us not be surprised then that teachers who have the task to warn among the weird legislation that keeps changing, and that at least the basic standards relating to education are exceptionally resistant to all amendments and everything. And they're hoping to turn on somebody's light again, and somehow it's gonna change. We, TOP 09, have agreed that we will not prevent the amendment of the school law from going through the second reading. We do not want to say that it does not seem clearly unnecessary to declare the compulsory so-called. preschool, as it's called on the job, because we say it's a parent's duty and it's up to them how they arrange it for the child. What the state has to do and what is necessary to provide the parents with service. And consulting service, methodical service. This can be decided by a parent of a four - year - old child who wants to prepare him slowly because he knows that a child is developing, often very quickly. We know that in a child's life, in development, sometimes even in six months, there will be a surprising change. That's why the rhythm is that you should go to counseling or some consulting facility right after the fall of the fifth year. It's all right. But it's just, overall, it's pointless. And perhaps for me it could be passed, or for me it would be acceptable only if we actually declared: Yes, we have preschool education in kindergartens and other facilities, but also individual or domestic. And this system was guaranteed to the second degree, that is, by the end of compulsory primary schooling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u55	Thank you, Mrs Nováková. Another duly registered member is Mr Simeon Karamazov, who is not present, so his application is forfeit. Another duly signed up is Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also say a few words for our club about the changes contained in the amendment to the school law which we are discussing today. With regard to the introduction of compulsory pre-school education one year before the beginning of primary school, we agree with this introduction, including free of charge. Finally, we have repeatedly submitted proposals for our club not only to be free of charge the last year before entering primary school, but to be the whole kindergarten, all the years free. In that sense, we also want to put forward amendments. The reasons leading us to agree with this change, i.e. the introduction of compulsory pre-school education, are, on the one hand, an effort to improve the quality of education and it is quite obvious the importance of pre-school education. Finally, all investigations clearly show this. This education is important for the child's personal and social development, to level out the inequality in their development and to facilitate, as has already been said, entry into primary school. I would like to point out that it is true that over 90 percent of five-year-olds are already attending kindergarten. This change does not reduce parental rights, as we are convinced from some emails. These children are supposed to go to kindergarten several hours a day, so it is not a problem for parents to work on raising their children, or to go on vacation with them outside the main holiday, because it is no longer a problem even in primary school, it is enough when the teacher allows it, and they take other extracurricular activities. So that's one thing I wanted to say about it. Another argument is equal chances in education. Ten percent of children under the age of five, about 10 percent, do not participate in preschool education and are often children from socially disadvantaged families who are handicapped from their peers. Here is the opportunity to eliminate some disadvantages, increase their educational chances and compare the starting line in education. Finally, estimates are that 5 percent of these 10 % are children living in an inadequately stimulating environment. This means that preschool education is very important for them. Although I agree with the Minister that, of course, these are not just children from this environment. [[14.20 hours]] One other reason is to reduce the number of deferrals. In the Czech Republic there is a very high number of delays, it is about 20 percent of the population year, so also this intention, I think, is commendable. Finally, allow one more comment to be made. Of course, we want to improve the quality for all pupils, for all children who are at this age, but it is also very important for children from Romani ethnicity. And here I point out that over 70 percent of children from this ethnicity do not attend kindergarten and that for them this education is also very important for future primary school education. When it comes to entitlement to a place in kindergarten, we think that's a good thing. Some steps have been taken to increase capacity in kindergarten schools. At the same time, it is true that, according to demographic developments, the situation should continue to improve and there should not be a problem of placing these children in kindergarten, with the fact that it would be very appropriate to take further steps, other measures, including funding, to reduce the number of children in kindergarten, as promised, because up to the 28 children in the classroom are indeed very, very many. This is related to the interest of parents and, ultimately, of some elementary schools, for these children to attend preparatory classes at primary school. It is because there are a much lower number of children, so one cannot be surprised by parents, but I agree that the preparatory classes in primary schools should be especially for children with delays, which are already being prepared at primary school at their age, but should in no way substitute kindergartens. There is a gros preschool education, there are ready teachers for this age of children and there should therefore primarily be preschool education. As regards what has been discussed here about experience from other European countries. The legal entitlement to the placement of a child in pre-school education is compulsory in nine Member States of the European Union, even in pre-school education. In other countries, compulsory schooling begins at the age of four or five years of a child, and I think that there is an experience that should still be valid for us in this case. As far as individual education is concerned, we have a problem with this in our club, of course. We ask what will be changed by this law, how will this compulsory pre-school education actually happen, if it is sufficient here only that it will come to the record, that it will announce there that the parent is interested in individual education, is entitled to the placement, but in fact it is just that the announcement that it will be individually educated is sufficient, in our view, disrupting what this amendment should address, i.e. to guarantee pre-school education. As far as the verification of the knowledge to which the parent and child must subsequently arrive is concerned, it is not enough for me either. Because what's next, if this verification proves that the parent isn't at home to the child, that the education that we want the child to have to balance his chances isn't provided? It will have to be accepted, it will be an obligation to abolish individual training by the Director. What about children who aren't allowed into kindergarten? I'm talking about kids who aren't vaccinated. However, I do not want to develop this debate here, I personally am in favour of compulsory vaccination, but it is another matter that we should continue to deal with in some way. Kindergartens, as I have mentioned here, are increasingly substitute families for basic habits, including the development of speech skills. I am already saying this because, for example, the logopedic flaws of preschoolers are among the main causes of the delays in compulsory schooling. Of the total number of delays, 33,6 percent of children are children with these speech defects. In the last ten years, the number of children with speech defects and impaired communication skills has increased by almost half. Each third to fourth child has a communication disability. Other reasons for delays: lack of adaptation and difficulty in concentrating, difficulties in the graphomotor area, frequent accumulation of these difficulties. It is these arguments that, in my opinion, are relevant to the fact that the kindergarten plays a key role here, it serves as an educational and social function, but above all it provides pre-school education at a time when the basics of the child's development and the prerequisites for its further educational career are being formed. Perhaps a comment to conclude on this change and that is - or two comments. One concerns the admission of two-year-olds, the other concerns children's groups. With regard to two-year-olds, I think they have different requirements, they should be in different conditions than those in kindergarten, where they are together with seven-year-olds, and that they should enter into some discussion between ministries of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I mean the creation of a crèche network so that these children are in the kind of care they deserve. The second point concerns children's groups. When we discussed this question, we suggested mine. in amendments, the children's group should be intended for children up to four, respectively. five years of age, followed by pre-school education. We still have this view, we think that the amendment concerning the children's group should also be prepared. Finally, it would be logical in relation to the amendment that we are now discussing. With regard to further change and this is the introduction of a single entrance exam into the secondary education fields completed by the graduation exam, we also agree. I think it should have been introduced a long time ago in terms of improving education and it has been said here today. It's just not possible for everyone to go to graduation. There are applicants who have skills, have results, are eligible for high school education in the senior field, there are others who have other prerequisites, e.g. to be very good craftsmen or technicians without graduation. I think that this should be one of the objectives, because over the years, when thanks and funding, and I am glad that regional education funding is promised, when the school actually accepts everyone regardless of the results, it has not only led to a reduction in the educational level or the standard in the admission of candidates, but also throughout the course of the secondary school study and also in its output, i.e. The graduation exam has long since lost the name it should have, and the paper that students receive at the end of their studies is not supported in many cases by the quality of education. In this context, I would like to remind you that with the introduction of a single entrance exam, which has been so criticized here from the right, the majority of school directors have also agreed. The questionnaire investigation showed that more than 87 per cent of high school directors, 72 per cent of secondary vocational school directors, 36 per cent of secondary vocational school directors agree with centrally commissioned single tests. I'm sure that's evidence of something. [[14.30 hours]] I think the Ministry of Education should be responsible for the preparation and methodological management of a single exam. This, of course, differs our view from that of the right-wing parties that have been said here by the previous speakers. Therefore, it is necessary to establish centrally that some schools are not disadvantaged, because some schools have approached the introduction of admission procedures, others have not, and, of course, there has been a disadvantage here. At the same time, and above all, it is one of the steps that should lead to a gradual improvement in secondary education. A large part of the schools, as I have already said, do not take the entrance exams at all and pupils are only accepted on the basis of evaluations from the last two years of primary school. We all know that the explanatory value of this evaluation is very low. The results of pilot verification of admission procedures show that grading in elementary school is an entirely incomparable indicator for the criteria for admission tests. So in any case, we support the central introduction of uniform tests. Of course, we see some problems here too. One of the problems is the question of who sets the incompetence of the threshold in accepting applicants, who sets the limit of success, when the candidate can be accepted, when he cannot be accepted anymore. If this remains in the hands of the directors of secondary schools and, at the same time, the financing of regional education will be what it is, i.e. What a student, the money for the school, so we can't expect any significant improvement. Just a high school principal will recruit applicants to fill the school and have as much financial money as possible. So this is definitely something that should be handled. In my opinion, the Ministry of Education should set this unobstructed line centrally. Otherwise, the Society of Mathematics Teachers also supports the introduction of a single entrance exam at secondary schools in the field of graduation. At the same time, they stress exactly what I was just talking about, that it is extremely necessary to ensure the state-guaranteed unobstructed limit of mastery and to focus on improving education in primary school. At the same time, the Society of Mathematics believes that the proposal for a single entrance exam can meet this function. About the second problem, i.e. financing regional education, I have already mentioned. And if it's the third problem. I don't think it's enough - and it has to do with the change in the uniform entrance exams and the change in the graduation exams - to focus on middle education. Of course, it must start much earlier, i.e. in primary schools, respectively. In those kindergartens. As for the primary schools, here I again appeal to the Ministry of Education to help rebuild the school workshops. This is an environment where pupils have a relationship with the fields of learning, crafts, woodwork, iron and other materials. This, too, may direct them not to apply to all kinds of humanities, but to technical fields and also to apprenticeships. I draw attention to the fact that children do not often meet their work at home at this time, that what the school can give them even in those school workshops is ultimately for the benefit of individuals, those children who may not excel in theoretical subjects, but who can excel in the very manual subjects where they also experience a sense of success. In this context, I would like the Ministry of Education to treat teaching faculties in such a way as to ensure this, i.e. to provide enough educators to teach workshops and other such subjects. Third adjustment, i.e. adaptation of the model and evaluation of the final exam. I consider it important, and I mentioned it here a while ago, to return the quality, the value of the graduation exam so that it isn't really in the quotation marks of a piece of paper when everyone can have a graduation. The prestige of apprentice education and programmes, those projects that will lead to an increase in prestige, should be increased hand in hand with this. As regards the three mandatory tests of the common part, i.e. Czech, literature, foreign language, mathematics in most fields of education with graduation, I think it is good that it should be from 2021, i.e. four years after a single entrance exam should be introduced, so that pupils and students know what they will be graduating from, and this corresponds to the educational programme, including the fact that the Ministry of Education is to set out the disciplines to be set aside from the compulsory mathematics. I consider this a reasonable compromise. It is necessary not only to separate some fields, but also to prepare some schools for students to be able to pass the exam of mathematics at all. What I mean now is that there are various hourly grants in different fields. Therefore, it is necessary to increase this hourly subsidy, and, as I have already said, also focus on improving the quality of mathematics teaching directly at primary schools. With regard to the next steps that should lead to the improvement of primary school education, I think that will not be possible unless there is a certain sum of knowledge that children need to know at the end of each year. At the moment, we have a fifth and ninth grade in primary schools, where during the five years or four years at the second grade each school has its own educational programmes and each school can include not only different courses in a given course, but sometimes different subjects in different years. And if this is not compared, if these annual performances are not, and if there is no emphasis on certain unification of the curriculum, so that there is really no such freedom in individual school education programmes, then I don't think we're going to move any further. Consider that there are children who do not meet certain objects, e.g. with chemistry, when one school teaches it in the eighth grade, on the other in the ninth grade, and the child moves in the middle of the year or at the beginning of the ninth grade. So that should be considered, too. As far as the central evaluation of Czech essays is concerned, it has its logic. It is unification with evaluation of work from a foreign language. And besides, and above all, this is an objective evaluation. Because it is true that in secondary schools, if the teachers of the Czech language were in charge of this, it is certainly a more subjective assessment than if it were set centrally. In the end, this is also shown by the investigation where the evaluation of the Czech students at school was compared, and what it would look like if these essays from Czech were centrally evaluated. It is true that the difference was very pronounced. For school Czechs, 1.8 percent of seniors did not pass, for externals it would fail 10.1 percent. This means that this is certainly a serious argument that we should consider in this context. Last change, i.e. the establishment of the National Education Council. I see this as an important professional and advisory body of the Ministry of Education, which should comment on selected documents of the Ministry, on concepts, so it certainly has our support. [[14.40 hours]] Finally, allow me to say a few more words. There are proposals in the amendment that most of us agree on across the political spectrum. Here I would like to stress that the last year of pre-school education - in the last parliamentary term, we found agreement on this in the school committee across the political spectrum, including the ODS party and others. There will be things that we agree on, there will be things that we can discuss, and there will be problems that we simply disagree on, and it will be voted out. A number of other problems can be opened in connection with this, whether it be the repeal of the LMP decree, i.e. the attachment for children with mild brain disorder, which, in my view, will have serious implications for the system of special education and, above all, for the education of these children. We can talk about whether there is a right and justified existence of multi-annual grammar schools where we separate certain pupils, because in my opinion, the education of talented pupils should go through another way. We can also talk about whether to finance from the state budget and from public budgets at all private and church education, if it is okay that at the second grade of primary school a foreign language is required, which causes great problems for many schools to educate pupils with a different mother tongue, and so on and so on. There's a lot of problems. However, I am glad that the Ministry of Education has submitted an amendment to the Education Act, which can find answers to some of these problems and may start the discussion in order to improve our education. That is why I can say for the KSČM club that we support the amendment to the law to go into second reading, i.e. today at first reading, and to continue discussing these issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u57	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. Another duly registered member is Mr Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u58	Good afternoon. I was quite listening and I was interested in a few comments. So before I talk, I'd like to take advantage of the fact that there's a secretary here and that we're regulating the college law, and yet here we have this unwanted child, this orphan from Radhoště, which is basically called higher education. I've seen about 11 ministers of education out of 17, or how many, I think, in office, otherwise I've seen them all, and I think everyone wanted to deal with it in some way, but in the end they've always moved on. It's a problem that's on the table here, higher education. At one time we talked about transforming higher vocational schools, which basically means dividing schools into quality and less quality and dealing with it somehow. We could measure quality by now, at least theoretically. Higher vocational schools also need to define some criteria by which selection would take place. I don't think waiting for it to die out is the way. I am merely responding to what Mr. Beznoska said, because I think this is an extremely topical matter, although we avoid it in the university law in fact, in this school law it is also not very addressed, but it is a problem that is here, and of course it hurts a number of graduates. We should be doing this. It's just, more or less, a reaction to the two-hour chatter I've heard here. When I recall again, about six months ago, as was said here, we dealt with the problem of individual home education and then work with talented youth. In fact, the discussions were quite turbulent. One of the conclusions of the negotiations with Minister Chládek and other representatives of the Ministry of Education and of us as Members was just a recommendation to propose a law on the promotion of domestic education to talented young people in the form of a parliamentary initiative, with the promise of all legal, technical and administrative assistance from the Ministry at the same time. I believe that there is room for not only supporting the domestic education of talented young people, I mean second degree, and also working with talent, but now it is time for us to deal with this problem. I think... The Ministry of Education should not leave this problem of talent work aside so that we do not just talk about disability, but also to talk about the other side of Gaussův' curve, which shows some sort of distribution in society. This also means, of course, allocating the appropriate financial means to contribute to these activities. I think it's nice that we're working with various foundations that are working with talent, as has been said here, like the Hopkins Hopkins Foundation, but it needs to be more or less professionalized. Family must play a very important role in this process of talent education. Whether we want to or not, by law, children will go to kindergarten when they're three years old, but if the family doesn't want it, then there's no chance. I believe that we have the opportunity in the process of amending the so-called school law to support the system of working with talented young people, in the form of an amendment to this proposal, as Mr Mihola mentioned here at the beginning. I think we should take advantage of this opportunity, because this will help to improve the quality of the education system and we will contribute, as has been said here a few times, to the need to increase the prestige of the teaching profession. That is what I think is also one of the ways to increase the prestige of a teaching profession among parents who have very talented offspring. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u59	I thank Mr Rais. Another duly signed up is Mrs Anna Putnová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u60	Good afternoon. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the submitted amendment to the Education Act deals primarily with nodal points, that is, first-class entry, completion of compulsory schooling, transition to secondary or apprenticeship education and then secondary school leaving, that is, graduation. I will also address these nodal points, but I will keep the detailed analysis to the school committee. I would like to frame this discussion in a little historical context. Since 2009, this is the 19th amendment to the School Act. We have been speeding up the pace in recent years, adding more and more novels and trying to respond to a problem or to some reality that the petitioner wants to change. All these amendments are common one quality, and that is short-sightedness. The petitioners try to solve their problem by proposing an amendment and assessing the benefits, the good from their point of view only in the first step. But education is a very complicated system that needs to be assessed not only in terms of the goal of the first step, but in the whole range of pedagogical education and work. Unfortunately, I have to say that even this amendment did not get out of hand from the point of view of the assessment of reach in the first step. [[14.50 hours]] I will therefore return to compulsory pre-school education. We from development psychologists know that this period of the child is absolutely crucial for its further development. What makes us different with the Minister as a petitioner and with other parties is the way in which we will try to give the child the maximum she can get at this age. In my opinion, the idea that we can solve this simply by amending the school law is quite odd. Why are we doing this adjustment? We want children who are handicapped by their social status or lack of parental care to receive this care in kindergarten. But that's a social problem, it's not a school problem! If we want parents to pay attention to education, pre-school education of their children, we need to go out in the field, work with families, motivate them, provide support, and I will defend all the motivational forms that the Ministry would have given to these families. It is important that children who are not ready for school attendance do not fall into a spiral of failures that can end up with unfinished school education. But the way does not lead through law, the way leads through education, education, and the effect on parents. I would like to point out quite seriously here that in the last two years we have seen parents' and parents' responsibility pressure themselves out of the education system. Note how parents are relieved of their responsibilities, what a turbulent discussion was about individual education, how difficult it was for us to promote and defend the position of parents in school councils. That's a thing that's really alarming. I believe that one of the reasons why we want to address pre-school education by the amendment is that social democracy had it in its programme, so through the coalition law, it took all parents and all pre-school children hostage. It's worth mentioning the area of delay. Everything that has been said here, the number of delays, is true, and we need to focus on that. After all, the importance of education and the development of pre-school children is demonstrated by the law itself in that it shifts registration, because the explanatory memorandum states how important three months are at that age. We understand, we understand. But to think that this will be a path that will reduce delays is, in my opinion, completely misleading again. Who's asking for a reprieve today? First of all, they are parents who are pushing the workplace to allow the child to be delayed. And here I think the Ministry is failing. After all, the Ministry has tools and methods to explain to parents that if their child is mature for school, it has nothing to do in kindergarten, because for its successful development, he needs incentives other than the kindergarten can offer him. The Ministry has enough experts, it has authorities that should explain to the public in an indisputable way that those parents who insist on delaying school children serve the children with a bear service. These are things the Ministry can't neglect, and then want to legalize everything. The second area I want to comment on is mandatory entrance exams. I feel from the diction of the law that this is a law-illegal, because if we're talking about some sort of categorization of compliance, then we're actually just talking about the first round of admission proceedings. In the second round, the law is already the principal. He determines who can be accepted and who can enter high school. In addition, it concerns only seniors, so children who decide or take note in the seventh eighth grade that they will not go to study are not motivated enough. We're halfway through what we want. What's happening right now codifies the current situation, but I'm asking what good it is from the point of view of the translator, when it doesn't actually introduce anything new, because we can start high school either by fulfilling the prerequisites or by waiting for the next round. Then we'll measure all students with a unified state graduation. There's only so much for a common part of state math. The school is a very hierarchical system. Symbols and rituals have an irreplaceable role there. The symbol for a common part of the State Mathematics Graduation is a delay. We are clearly showing that what we have postponed twice can be postponed for the third time and will be the subject of discussions, negotiations, and political will in the future. The delay is the beginning of failure. If we are moving mathematics today, we are making it clear that we are willing to discuss this even further. I've only talked about what's in the material so far, but not about what's not in the material. We all remember the debate on individual education at second level, and I assume that this will be the subject of amendments, after all I have tabled it myself, so if we do not agree on this in some way within the school committee, I am prepared to do so. For more than a year, my novel awaits so-called. Czech schools without borders to regulate better conditions for children who grow up abroad, and they are children either from a common marriage or, for example, children of diplomats etc. I would like to see this as an amendment in the context of the management of this amendment. We also didn't talk about higher vocational schools here, which is the hot potato education that ministers toss around because they don't know much about it. In 2008, it was said that higher vocational schools would be transformed either in high school or in a bachelor's form. So we have a lot to talk about. I really leave a more detailed discussion up to the Education Committee, and if the Minister has invited us to a fair discussion, I expect an equally correct approach from the Ministry of Education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u61	Thank you, Mrs Putnová, for her contribution. Another duly signed up is Mrs Ivana Dobešová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u62	Good afternoon. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, we have been discussing the amendment to the Education Act, regional education for almost three hours. I'm not going to repeat the individual points that the amendment involves, because I think my previous speakers have been very well described. I'd only touch three basic points. One of them is a compulsory senior year of kindergarten. I see this as a very good step by the Ministry of Education to improve the preparation of pupils to enter primary school in the first year, and I think that also the prognosis of the promise of a guarantee from 2017 for four-year-olds and from 2018 for three-year-olds placement in kindergarten is very ambitious, and I think it must be associated with steps to increase the number of pupils, places in kindergarten schools. [[15.00 hours]] I would only like to respond to some of my previous speakers who said how important it is for the family to play a very important role in raising young people. I myself have an older son, and 22 years ago I didn't put my son in kindergarten because he had a very good background at home, he had a background for my parents and my husband's parents. I did it in the best faith. My son got into first grade, and I found out that he was the only one among 30 students who didn't attend kindergarten, and he's the only one who doesn't know those kids. And it wasn't about how he couldn't handle his first year's education, why he didn't like it in first grade at the beginning. It was about those kids having a very good relationship with each other, knowing each other, being friends, and he was a stranger to them. For him, the entry to his first year was very traumatic. If I am to judge by my son, I think he will be in favour of the children if they have the opportunity to play and gain certain habits to make friends, and their transition or advance to the first class will then be much easier. Of course, it can't be generalized, but it's one example of life. As far as admission procedures are concerned, I am 100% in favour of the state guaranteed but unified, unified entrance exams. A little, and maybe I just didn't understand the paragrafo text, I don't know how it's gonna work out with those students who don't get through in the first round and they're gonna apply in the second and another round where they're not meant to pass state exams. In other words, they can go around and get to the first year actually without a uniform comparison. Maybe I'm just misinterpreting it. It may be a good interpretation that we directors will know exactly what to do, but I see certain pitfalls and dangers here. But what I'd like to do is a graduation exam. You know, I've been a high school principal for 16 years, and I see the quality of students leaving high school. Unfortunately, I have to say that the quality has gone down lately, even though we, like high school, are trying to do our best. Yes, it was at the expense of humiliating the number of pupils entering the first years. Yes, it was at the expense of failing to optimize schools in all regions. However, pupils also come with bad knowledge from primary school with good grades from primary school and it's hard to tell which two is the right two and which two is actually a cocooned three. So these entrance exams will help us to some extent compare and make an opinion on the quality of primary schools. What bothers me a little bit, I'm going back to admissions and graduating, is that we really decided in the Czech Republic to measure the quality of education in secondary schools. We don't care much about the result of primary school, even though we're testing them in the 5th and 9th grade, but it doesn't have any meaningful value, because there's no way to take advantage of it, and we don't even care what quality it is in universities. We trust the professors that the conclusion and final exam is correctly evaluated. But we don't trust teachers in high school and we have to measure the quality here. I'm a little concerned about that, but there's probably nothing I can do about it. That's historically established here. Well, I'd like to stop by the seniors. I'm a little worried that we're adding another general course in the state part of the graduation exam, and thus we're promoting the general exam and demeaning the vocational training space in the vocational schools. I understand that the pressure of universities is to make math a part of the graduation exam. However, vocational schools were historically here to prepare pupils not only in general but mainly in professional terms. And since 2005, when we changed the system of our education and looked into school education programmes, we have taken the first blow to vocational schools by promoting general subjects, subsidising general subjects in education. At that time, schools had to humiliate part of vocational education. They had to think a lot about the balance between practice and expertise in order to reach the goal and reach the seniors for the Czech and foreign national exams. Experience tells us the results aren't that great. So far, pupils are graduating from two classes and we've been telling them they're graduating from three courses since 2021. What does that mean for us director of vocational schools? Again, we will have to look at school educational programs. Once again, we will have to consider where it is possible to cut back on the training because a 10-hour grant in the school education programme for vocational school pupils will not be sufficient to pass the graduation exam. Those who make it at ten o'clock are usually at grammar schools. Those who do not want to study only general education are with us. And I consider it another nail in the coffin of secondary vocational schools with a graduation exam. I have seen a proposal for a government regulation that deals with a list of fields that will be included in the first stage in the field of mathematics as a final examination. I am afraid, Minister through the President, that although we want to support technical and scientific disciplines, the number of applicants will be humiliated in these fields, because students are afraid that they will have to graduate from mathematics, they will choose a different field, less demanding and will follow the path of least resistance. And that's not what we want. We said we'd support the technical and scientific fields. I've become familiar with the list of these first majors, and I see in them, for example. branch of agribusiness. I take the liberty of saying that this is not the right step as head of an agricultural school. Students who come into this field of science chose it because they either have a farm at home and want to get a professional education, or they are interested in horse breeding and horse riding. Those are the guidelines they want to go to. Mathematics is another obstacle to achieving a really middle education. I wanted to ask you, Madam Secretary, let's think about whether it's really necessary for science to be in the first wave. I have an idea or a subject. So if we want to introduce across-the-board mathematics as a major in graduation, if it would not be good first to include in all school educational programs the required dose of mathematics subsidies, teaching, and then take a one-time step for all schools. Because believe me, for these fields that are in the draft government regulation, this will be a big handicap in the next four years. So I think that as far as mathematics is concerned, there will certainly be room in my subcommittee on secondary and higher vocational education to address this issue, and I hope that we will find some consensus. He won't let me touch what my two previous speakers have basically touched, that's higher vocational education. I know higher vocational schools hang in space somehow. We have them in the Regional Education Act. We consider them in their form as tertiary education schools and we come across great resistance from university professors who do not want to accept them. Nevertheless, we know that some higher vocational schools are of high quality, and we know that often graduates of these schools are at a higher level than graduates of the Bachelor's degree. And I say this quite responsibly, because I have college teachers chairing discharge, and they often say that my students' alumni work is at a better level than my bachelor's work. That is why I am thinking about why we allow education to be duplicated in the system when we can link the two systems of universities and higher vocational schools well and beautifully. Take advantage of quality higher vocational schools and make the whole education system cheaper. [[15.10 hours]] However, I think and hope that, even in this parliamentary term, the debate on higher vocational schools will find its place in plenary here in the Chamber of Deputies. I wish there was a separate law on higher vocational schools, because I think it would be very helpful for both students and directors, but also for employers who appreciate higher vocational schools that are just focused on practice. That's why I dare to ask you a favor. Let us also prove our claim that we support vocational training by our actions. And please, in my subcommittee, we really need to discuss the matter of graduation, but also the future of higher vocational schools. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for paying attention to my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, too, Madame. We will continue the debate. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Andrle, Mr Novotný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u64	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I've been here for over three hours listening to beautiful speeches, Mrs. Dobešová for the last time. And I just have a little thing, a little speech, a little consideration. It concerns children, which is about 2.3% of children who do not go to grade 0 or kindergarten. On Monday, the Czech Government approved a report on the state of the Romani minority, from which we could subsequently learn some sad information. The number of Roma households in socially excluded localities is increasing. The increase in excluded persons accelerated from 11,000 to 47,000 between 2008 and 2014, an enormous increase. Today there is a total of 707 hostels in the Czech Republic for the socially weak. Unfortunately, according to the report, the yolk type A, bugs, scabies and other diseases are also doing very well. You're probably asking how these numbers relate to school law. I answer that it's related, and it's pretty thorough. This pitiful and for most of the population of the end state must be avoided at the beginning. I believe pre-school education will be the prevention. The amendment to this law envisages the introduction of a compulsory year of pre-school education before compulsory schooling begins. Until now, there have been only zero years of schools, and their establishment has been decided solely by the school director in cooperation with the founder. For example, when I got a report from the Deputy Director of Jiráskov Elementary School in Mrs Milena Hunalová's Vysoké Mýta, this system proved its worth. In addition to the fact that the school reaches a high percentage of attendance, socially disadvantaged children are also able to substitute global activity to acquire hygiene habits, acquire dining habits, in pronunciation, in terminology. And development is taking place in other areas that children need to enter the first class. In other words, since these mostly weak children did not attend kindergartens, they will be able to enter the amendment a year earlier, which I believe will only have a positive impact. The preschool year according to my court and the court of many teachers I have spoken to will teach children independence and will promote their social maturity. I understand that objections and concerns are being raised, and in many cases justified, by parents who do not want to involve their children in pre-school education. But the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has dealt with them enough in my opinion. Dear colleagues, colleagues, our Dawn Club will move this amendment forward to the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now duly signed up for the debate is Mr Novotný and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u66	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the proposed amendment, which has three parts, with the fact that I will skip the first part, because I do not really want to discuss kindergarten at this time. But as a long-time high school principal, I would like to comment on those parts, and that is, in particular, admission procedures and graduation exams. My colleague Mrs Dobešová, it was obvious that she was a man of practice, and she said a number of things that I have here prepared or had prepared. However, allow me to comment on some of them. First of all, what it looks like at the moment in primary schools. In the ninth grade primary schools, it seems that the vast majority of pupils no longer learn. They practically already know they're gonna be admitted to some high school, which means the motivation to learn is very small. There are some comparative tests at the end of the ninth grade, and here I would suggest one way that might lead to students really being motivated to learn in the ninth grade, and this is to take into account the results of these tests at primary school for entrance exams. Practically taking the exams would be replaced by that. It would have been moved to primary schools. That's one way. The other way is that - or what it looks like. Looks like the current high school principal is doing everything he can to get his school filled. This means that if he has twelve pupils in the field of electrotechnics, for example, it is very problematic to support teachers of electrotechnics, teachers of mathematics, teachers of Czech, because twelve pupils simply do not bring him enough money to pay them out. That means he's doing everything he can to fill the classroom or connect the classrooms. He's doing everything possible to have 25, 30 students in his class. Well, in elementary school, when I get back to it, what's going on? The results come from primary schools in high school and the second from primary school in mathematics is a completely different two from one school and a completely different two from the second. So here, the explanatory report itself says so much that it's actually not objective to take elementary school results as an assessment. The high school directors first took entrance exams, tried to figure it out in some way to get high-quality students there. Then they found out that the neighboring high school didn't take the entrance exams, so they said, and there are more pupils reporting, because students are obviously going the way of least resistance, so of course they did that they also canceled the entrance exams and took pupils according to what they had for the ninth grade or at the end of the eighth grade. This led to the fact that today they are in some majors, I'm not talking about grammar schools, pupils are accepted, who even have a five in the ninth grade half. Five! Which, of course, I'd say very irresponsible. At present, it is stated in the school law that there are only two criteria, namely the evaluation of the certificate of prior education and for (b) other facts which certify the appropriate skills and knowledge and interests of the applicant. [[15.20 hours]] That means, if I want to accept this student, I'm going to make it five points for the Olympics in a high jump, then he's going to get three points for working 20 brigade hours - now I'm making it a little less easy for you - but of course I'm going to do everything for it as a school principal who's trying to get my teachers a job so I can get as many students as I can. For these reasons, I welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Education to introduce a single compulsory written exam from Czech and mathematics, which will be entered centrally. But according to the proposal, I'm worried that the wolf shouldn't happen to eat and the goat shouldn't stay whole. I'll explain why. I said a moment ago that there are two criteria in this existing school law, the proposal now states that there will be four, namely an evaluation of the certificate of prior education, b) the results of a uniform examination if it is part of the admission procedure, c) the results of the school entrance examination, if established, and in the case of other facts which certify the appropriate skills, knowledge and interests of the applicant. That means that two criteria suddenly became four criteria, if I'm a good CEO, I'm going to count it by accepting the pupil in some way again. I welcome the fact that this evaluation of the single test contributes at least half of the overall evaluation of the fulfilment of the criteria for admission procedures. No offense. But if I do well with the remaining criteria, then the student, even if he has very few points from the national evaluation, will, of course, get to that school. According to the results achieved by individual candidates during the recruitment procedure, the school director shall determine their order. If more candidates than can be accepted meet the criteria for admission procedures, their ranking shall be determined according to the results of the evaluation of the criteria for admission procedures. There's a way you can manipulate it, and of course I don't like it. Therefore, I propose that in the admission procedure for graduations - I am talking about graduations - the only criterion is left to the result of the national uniform examination, which would guarantee objectivity and unilaterality for the whole Czech Republic and all secondary schools that teach graduations. There would be no differences between the different schools and the handling of admission procedures. At present, as I have already mentioned, there is a different level of pupils admitted to individual secondary schools, and this also happens if the regions introduced uniform entrance exams in the first round, so the directors went around in the second and the next round, of course, and for others, if the secondary school was on the edge of one region, I think borderally, so the pupils went to the other region where the entrance exams were not done. Here it would really lead - the unified entrance exam of mathematics, from Czech, would lead to the elimination of these possibilities and these irregularities. The reason for skipping the assessment of the previous education report is stated by the Ministry in its explanatory report that it is an objective figure and cannot be based on it. They write it themselves, and yet it appears in the proposal. Second, or reason number two why skip the results of the entrance school exam, if determined, most of the school directors I spoke to said: If there will be a uniform exam from Czech and mathematics, then why would I do another exam? That seems completely illogical to me. That's the third reason to skip the evaluation. In Article 60, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: (d) this means, where appropriate, other facts which certify the appropriate skills, knowledge and interests of the applicant. Well, please, under this I can really imagine anything, as I mentioned before, the Olympics jumping up and down or picking potatoes or I don't know, and I can give the pupil points and then accept it. So I don't think he really belongs here. Some psychologists argue that the pupil is stressed by the test. The proposal states, however, that pupils have the opportunity to do the exam twice and are counting on better results. Plus, I think that every pupil in life gets into situations where he's stressed out, so by the time he's 15 years old, he should get used to a certain amount of stress and be able to pass exams. And I'm saying again, he has the opportunity to do it twice, and he's going to get the better result. Now let me comment on the draft final exam. The proposal assumes that pupils will pass the graduation exam from 2020 onwards, respectively. 2021 from mathematics as a third mandatory, but on the basis of - the disciplines will be selected on the basis of a resolution, i.e. a government regulation, if I remember correctly, and here I am getting into certain doubts. First of all, it is necessary to realize that education is either an eight-year, six-year or four-year-old, and now I'm talking about graduation education, and if, if I put it into absurdity, every year, the government regulations will determine some other disciplines where the math exam is going to be, it's going to be incredibly confusing. First of all. Secondly, as my colleague here has said, I really think there will be a drop in interest in the fields where mathematics will be compulsory. And the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Industry and Trade and other institutions are calling for a real interest in technical fields to be strengthened, and it will be the exact opposite here. The pupils will go to those fields where mathematics will not be, I'm not saying everyone, but where mathematics will not be as mandatory. Of course, in order for the pupil to be ready for the math exam, he really needs enough penzum hours, which means 12 hours in four years. 12 hours of mathematics in those 4 years means that he has to give the sum of 4 hours every week in the first year, 3 hours in the second, 3 hours in the third and 2 hours in the fourth, that gives 12 hours. Of course it will lead to the problems that have been said here that, for example, the subject of electrical engineering will not be so many more hours, because it will have to move to the mathematics, but I still think it is solvable in the context of educational programs. I will therefore propose two amendments. The first amendment will concern the admission procedure for the subjects completed by the graduation exam. I'm going to propose that the only criterion for these disciplines is the national single entrance exam. I underline - the only criterion. I will mention the reasons once again: Differences between evaluations from primary schools will be removed, differences between secondary schools will be eliminated, differences between regions will be eliminated. No further manipulation of the results of the admission procedure will be possible. In my second amendment, I will propose and promote a compulsory mathematical examination for all subjects completed by the graduation exam outside the fields referred to in Section 85 and in Section 62, which are the fields where the talent examination is composed. I mentioned the reasons above. And since repetition is the mother of wisdom, I'm putting it again. Government regulations with selected fields in which the math exam will be composed will result in pupils choosing those fields where mathematics will not be compulsory. Secondly, the government's regulation will introduce changes in the fields each year and it should be noted that the study is, as I have already said, a four-year, six-year-old, or even an eight-year-old. And the annual changes in the field of graduation will lead to confusion and disinterest in these fields. [[15.30 hours]] Three. Entrepreneurs, Chamber of Commerce and others call for people educated in IT fields, engineering, electrical engineering and other technical fields, and here mathematics is the basis. I am not going to say that such educated people do not need a graduation exam from the Czech language and so on. Of course, I do not want to say that humanities and humanities and social sciences are not to be taught in schools, because today I think it is very important, because the time is politically complicated, whether on the domestic or international scene. Nevertheless, I recommend that this draft school law be passed on to second reading, and I believe that my comments will be taken into account in committee discussions, or then as my amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u67	And I thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Dobešová is reporting with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond to Mr Novotný's speech. I understand what you said that you wanted the admission process to be seen as a 100% admission. However, I can imagine that if the Ministry does not set a limit in the law under which the Director may not go on admission, then we are able to accept all those who come to the admission process. So I just want to respond. I think that considering only 100 percent of the outcome of the admission procedure doesn't solve the question itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u69	Thank you. Now, therefore, duly signed up for the debate, Mrs Kovářová. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I consider the introduction of compulsory pre-school education, which is the subject of the amendment under discussion, to be a bold step. Brave also because I am not sure that all its contexts have been adequately taken into account. Some arguments have already been made, some others will still be heard. Personally, I would like to draw attention to some of the problems that the proposal may pose from the point of view of the municipalities. For example, I wonder whether the municipal kindergartens have sufficient capacity to satisfy the requirements of this amendment. Judging by the questionnaire recently addressed to the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities, the answer is not certain either by the Ministry of Education. I consider that a mistake. I think that the Ministry should first thoroughly map the situation and then submit proposals for legislation to change the current situation. The issue of sufficient capacity is also linked to transport accessibility, which may not be ideal, especially in rural areas, and in many cases is not really ideal. Has the Ministry really considered these contexts? I'm getting to the last point of my performance. Pre-school education will also have an impact on municipal and regional budgets. And I don't think it's very small. Unfortunately, I did not find more accurate calculations in the explanatory memorandum. You know, I think it's exactly in the spirit of what I pointed out on Friday in the context of the amendment to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes. The authorities themselves are once again to impose new obligations, but they again do not receive funds for their implementation, or only to a limited extent, but they certainly do not capture all the costs incurred in the territory. That's really not a good way to go. That's not a question, that's a statement. However, I would ask the Minister for an answer to my previous questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u71	Thank you, Madame. And now the duly registered Mr Bendl. Mrs Chalánková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u72	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, I will now try to say my opinion on this bill from the point of view of a person who has been responsible for setting up hundreds of schools literally and to the letter for eight years, because I was the Regional Governor in Central Bohemia, where we set up more than 300 schools and educational facilities, and as well as the Mayor of Kladno, I was responsible for setting up primary and kindergarten schools. Today, I live in a village and I see the situation differently than when I lived in a big city, because - and that is what I blame this bill - they absolutely do not conceive of the practical experience in kindergarten. The practical experience of people who have a child at preschool age is not important for their child to be in kindergarten the last year before school, or it is technically so complicated for them, which happens in the village that it is simply thanks to the transport service, thanks to the possibility at all, thanks to the capacities of kindergarten schools and the like, when these people are forced to choose this option, and is not one of the inadaptable ones, which was probably pointed out by Mrs Semelová when she was talking about the difficulties with certain groups of people and that it might be good for them to have compulsory school attendance. But what I'm saying is, why should everyone pay for it? Even those who are not inadaptable, follow all the rules of the game, have no problems, their children are already outgrown and also go to schools and are not having any trouble with them, learn very well and so on, why should they pay for being obliged to include children in the preschool? I would like it if this material goes through the first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, because I think the Minister has to prove that he understands this question, that he is aware that it will make people's availability worse in terms of the possibility of putting children in kindergarten schools. In the Central Bohemia Region, there are two extremes concerning basic and maternal education. There are schools where it is difficult to have enough children so that they can be financed at all, but because it is in the villages and the availability is almost categorically impossible, there is depopulation of municipalities, young people do not see their future in the villages, because there is no such basic infrastructure, and Central Bohemia is proof of this. At the borders of Central Bohemia not with Prague, but with other regions there are huge problems with fulfilling kindergarten and primary schools. The moment you give this duty, there will simply be nowhere to put these children, or vice versa, they will have to travel to a number of other communities. Because the practice, what's the practice today? There is a given capacity of kindergartens and, if the municipality which establishes the kindergarten still has a place there, it will take the child from another village where they do not have a kindergarten. However, the moment you introduce this obligation, you must be aware that children from communities where they don't have a kindergarten will have to go somewhere else. And you should be clear that they're gonna make it, that you're not gonna put them in front of a situation where they're gonna have to commute tens of miles extra, which is gonna make their job accessibility worse. In general, life in the village, and I want you to prove, through the President, that you are aware of this. As well as the fact that there are parts of the region, I do not know so much about the other regions, but I dare say that I know very well that the capacity is completely full there. You're making life harder for them, for the communities. I said it here in the tax bill, so I'll repeat it, because in my village of Bratonice, where there was an empty object that fell to the state, it takes your breadwinner, the first vice-president of the government, and the finance minister that the municipality must buy this death. And if he doesn't buy it, he can't ask for a crown of subsidies anymore. [[15.40 hours]] The village wants to do a kindergarten there with its 11-million-dollar budget, which is almost heroic performance. You didn't add them to the RUD. Well, maybe you'll sell it because you promise to deal with them in two or three months, and then Minister Babiš will come and say, "I give you the money, I make the decision. And so on. But you're already actually preventing the municipalities from building nursery schools. Defend and keep your head down, Madam Secretary. I can prove it to you in black and white. But I can see you didn't care much. What happens when someone doesn't take the child into preschool or compulsory preschool, that's the question. I think we're kind of on the Norwegian road, because we're gonna insist that the family is obliged to send the baby to preschool, and if they don't, how are we gonna punish them? Should we take the baby away from them? Maybe that's how they would do it in Norway, because that's where the social workers will insist that the child has the right to education, and the parents of the non-parents, we'll take them away from them, or we'll say that the parent is important to us, and that the question is, how the family works, how it works on the outside, whether it meets all the prerequisites for the child to grow in a healthy family with all the prerequisites that lead to the child getting caught up in school, and so on. And maybe it'll be a family where the children were raised without any compulsory preschooling. I beg you, Madam Secretary, to... And I hope that the Chamber of Deputies will not reject my proposal, which I will certainly put forward for this material to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, because that is where it belongs. And I didn't tell the Crown about finance here. But I suppose you've got it all figured out that you're gonna give them the money, but you're gonna give them the equipment, including the completion of new kindergartens and what's gonna happen to them, with those kindergartens when they don't have kids, because you're gonna throw that question at them quite safely, so you need to be aware of that. High school. I presume that although it is not my custom, I agree with those who say that if mathematics is only in some schools, it means a handicap for those schools where the mathematics will be, because no one wants to study it. But I'm deeply convinced that a senior, regardless of whether he's doing one or the other school, so if he's graduating, he's supposed to have a math degree. Let's just get this problem over with. No one will be handicapped. And at the same time, we're gonna support the technical fields, because it's clear that everyone who's graduating gets it from math. Because today's practice is someone asking, "Are you graduating?" Yeah, I'm graduating. And no one's asking if he's got it in math or not. But one more question for you who understand education a thousand times more than I do. What's the deal with the school inspection? Some of you here have said that we have poor education here and how great it was for the communists and that now it all sucks, that we have poor schools. Others say that the system needs to be improved, that it is not so bad. I have always perceived, perhaps lay, school inspection as an authority of a state that oversees the quality of teaching individuals, but of course also the teaching of school itself. If the opinion is that we have high school good and good quality, then perhaps the Czech School Inspectorate is not working. That's one possibility. Second - if we have poor quality, respectively. if we have poor quality, it doesn't work, or we have high quality schools, then actually the Czech School Inspectorate works great. Or the third option that the opinions of the Czech School Inspectorate are not actually respected, and that if he makes any recommendations towards the institution of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, then eventually nothing will happen. Why do I say that? Because I don't know the case except for UJAK, which I will specifically comment on after high school was cancelled really because it was poor quality, that the Czech School Inspectorate would go in there and say: Disaster, results incredibly bad. When many of you experts say that this is wrong and that high school would close down, perhaps it is a question for the competence of the Czech School Inspectorate, about strengthening it so that they have greater powers in this pressure on secondary education to leave schools, if they have a senior education, people are leaving really well prepared for the future. And to UJAK - I can't, because the secretary here ran off on interpellation. And it is on this subject because it is about the quality of schools and this school law. Madam Secretary wasn't at the patronage. It is not the students' fault that they are in the school that was accredited, accepted, studied there, and suddenly comes the accreditation committee, I note, with the recommendation of the Ministry of Education - with the recommendation of the Ministry of Education - and the Ministry of Education, eventually the Minister will say: Sure, cut off and now! [[repeats with emphasis]] And they're not gonna figure out what to do with the seven hundred people the state forced to complete their education because they're teachers who had to finish their education if they wanted to do the work they were doing, and the state didn't figure out what to do with them. I think it was a huge mistake, and it's a demonstration that everything just can't be set. All I had to do was use common sense to get these people to graduate. The next year won't open. They're supposed to graduate under some professional guarantee from other teaching schools, and that school would close when the students would graduate. The moment you took their accreditations, you turned students into unstudents, which is what you're gonna make them audition. I don't know, maybe you'll say, "It's going to happen somehow, don't worry, we'll soften it up -- so you'll go a little against saying that you want to raise the quality of higher education and education in general. Or you're going to put them in a very difficult position for them, that maybe you're going to get even harder and say, "You're quitting." Or maybe a few of you will catch up, and they'll take the exams, and the rest of you better go do something else, because you won't be qualified enough anymore. And that's just because you took the college's reckless accreditation without letting them graduate. If you did it like you did in Plzeň, where it was complicated as a ladder, it just wasn't easy at all, but the situation was handled unlike a situation you couldn't handle, Madam Secretary. I hope that this will not be the case with the new school law, even though the first discussion makes me feel like you don't know at all and you can't read the implications of this bill, what you're actually going to do in practice. And I point out that I wasn't even talking about the economy we're supposed to talk about on committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we go any further, I'll read the notes that arrived. Today, from 16 a.m. to the end of the day, the Minister Chovanec apologizes because of urgent work obligations in the Ministry of the Interior. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologizes today between 12 and 16 o'clock for reasons of work. Furthermore, today, from 6 p.m., Mr Pavel Antonín apologizes for work reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak in the same way as my two colleagues on the TOP 09 page. I will briefly comment on compulsory pre-school education. We have heard that 90 percent of children are already attending this pre-school education, that is, we are only talking about introducing this obligation because of the remaining 10 percent of children. I believe that the Minister has good intentions and certainly wants to help children in particular from socially excluded localities or localities affected by this. [[15.50 hours]] On the other hand, if parents have to document and are subject to control as to why their children will not participate in such compulsory pre-schooling, we are in a situation where there is really a higher ingence of the state into the freedom of the family. It is precisely an intervention in the subsidiarity of the family. I'm gonna use that term a second time. Family subsidiarity means that the state has no right to enter the freedom of the family and the family itself is responsible, parents are responsible for raising children. Each enlargement of the state to the freedom of the family brings bad results. It's meant well, but the results may not be the best. For children from socially excluded environments we have been very successful in Olomouc Region preparatory zero years and I think they were quite sufficient especially for these children. If there have been mentioned countries where they are already of lower age for compulsory pre-school education or even school education, I would like to say that these are countries that prefer the collective vision of the world. And there are many of these states, and it also brings many unfortunate fates for families in these states. I would also like to mention, it was quoted here that we should behave one way or another on the OECD recommendation. These recommendations of various unelected institutions also concern other areas of life. And I would like to say that only we Members and the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and no unelected recommending institutions are responsible for how we set up education or social issues in our country. I would like to say this as a second mention of the principle of subsidiarity. It's the subsidiarity of the state. So it was another thing. And a rope to other laws. It is precisely because of the fact that it concerns the life of families that the school law is also very closely related to the law on the social and legal protection of children. This is often referred to as the rights of a child. The right of a child to achieve the best of what is in it. But if the best in keeping with the child's best interests is determined by the state and civil servants, it is indeed the rule of state over the freedom of the family. Parents have the right to children's education, and I really strongly object to the child's right to be determined by non-elections and civil servants. And yet, I'm going to keep an eye on this very closely, because the link between school laws and the Children's Social Law Act is on the table. It has already been mentioned during the last discussion of the school law, it also concerns inclusive education and these are things that I will be very careful about. The second part, which concerns school education, is where I would like to mention two other things. In particular, parents often do not have the time and strength to watch what they learn in kindergartens and schools, especially in those subjects that are very sensitive and should focus more on learning about relationships between people. On the contrary, children learn there early, for example, only about the techniques of sexual life. For some children, this is premature and can also take their childhood away. As far as vocational training is concerned, I have long thought about it - because it sounds very good that our education is to be set on the needs of the market, on the needs of investors and employers. Everyone certainly wants children to be well-employable after schooling and other levels of school education. I'm sure you do. But given the rapid and rapid development of our society, it is also extremely important that they have as broad a general education as possible. Because only then can they resist various pitfalls. That is why I am in favour, on the one hand, of education and education being very precise in schools, so that there are tightening up, motivational elements for teachers, because teachers often do not have the motivation for the way they teach pupils. And if they are taught well or badly, they will essentially show no - or at least show how they are rewarded. I've got some specific information from a meeting with the principal of high school. That totally shocked me. When pupils laugh in his eyes that they don't care whether they learn or not, it's shocking because the kids aren't afraid and they don't want to learn. Does that mean we're supposed to be begging them to study? It is extremely important that they learn history to learn mathematics, physics and natural science. Especially so that they have as broad an education as possible so that they do not become victims of all sorts of manipulators when they are adults. For myself, I would ask that this press be assigned and assigned to discuss the Social Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u75	Thank you, too, Madame. And now I will ask Mr Marek Benda to make his contribution properly signed up. Madam Hana Aulická will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u76	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal of talk, so I will try to be very brief. One constitutional point I would like to make with the Minister. Madam Secretary is very young, and if it weren't politically incorrect, I would say very beautiful. But that means he doesn't remember how and why the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms was approved. I would just like to recall the time and wording that was chosen because we approved the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms in 1991 after 40 years of communist totalitarianism and before that, with a brief break of seven more years of Nazi totalitarianism. And we just knew that one of the greatest dangers posed by totalitarianism is attempts to interfere with families, attempts to take children into some kind of collective establishment. Not by chance, like all of Leninův's writings that we had to learn in high schools, they said that the most important thing to build socialism was to abolish the family and order the children to some social facilities, whether they were called nursery, kindergarten or anything like that, because that's what I'm going to raise this new socialist person and finally cancel the outdated old family institute. That is why the Charter was formulated as it was formulated, where in Article 32 it says quite clearly: "Child care and parenting are the right of parents. Children have the right to parental education and care. Parents' rights may be limited and minor children may be separated from their parents against their will only by decision of the court under the law." Just a court decision based on the law. Further article of the Constitution, respectively. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 33. Says: "Everyone has the right to education. " And please follow closely the second sentence: "School attendance is mandatory for the period prescribed by the law. " We were aware that it was necessary to introduce compulsory schooling so that it would not be possible on the basis of the previous ones. But all we said was school attendance is mandatory for a period to be laid down by law. I know that the Minister is aware of this to some extent, which is why he is so careful to continue to laurise between whether it is a ten-year schooling or whether it is compulsory pre-school education. However, I say that compulsory pre-school education is unconstitutional. It is contrary to our Charter of Rights and Freedoms. And I would ask very much that if this material is ordered to the committee, that it be ordered only from this point of view, even to the constitutionally legal committee, to address the question of whether it is possible to prescribe a compulsory year of kindergarten. I think that you, yes, can play with it from how many years is compulsory school attendance, until how many years is school attendance. But I think that it is not the law of the State to prescribe as amended by the existing Charter - and this Charter would have to be amended, and I do not think that the Minister dares - it is not the law of the State to prescribe compulsory pre-school education. And now I'm looking away from all the arguments in the matter. All I care about is a purely constitutional dimension, which I think is clear. If the constitutional dimension is such that it says "care for children is the right of parents, the State can order compulsory school attendance" then it is clear that it must not order anything else. Not even the legislator. And here I would ask very much that we address this problem from this side, because I think, except that it is factually wrong, that it is contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I note one point of fact, which is made by Mrs Marta Semelová, prepared by Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u78	Thank you. I would like to say to Mr Benda through you: It is a pity that you did not have the words about the right of a child to raise and care in the family at a time when, as an ODS, you reduced your parents' contributions to children, the benefits that young families could benefit from, and when you made cuts to the very young families, so that anti-population policy was taken into account. And you have greatly reduced the right to proper parenting and care, including the fact that unemployment has increased greatly and that parents have had great problems with themselves. Two. If you're talking about the right to education, yes, that's what you should have meant when you were running tuition fees at higher vocational schools, when you proposed tuition fees at universities, and when you charged for example. High school textbooks. This is all against the right to an education that you're so concerned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u79	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Hana Aulická, Mrs Radka Maxová will be prepared to sign in properly. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by several representatives from the professional public in the field of pre-school education to present their comments and questions that arose after the amendment to the Education Act. I would just like to point out that I am a Member of the Ústí Region and I think that we really have something to say about the issue of the socially weak. The introduction of compulsory pre-school education in the form of compulsory schooling for all five-year-olds, with the exception of children with deep mental disabilities. In this case, will the expert opinions to be taken out of compulsory education not be dealt with until they are entered in kindergarten? For the child's initial visit, diagnostics are difficult to manage, and there are already great waiting times in pedagogical-psychological counseling. Who will make decisions about acceptance and non-acceptance, and on what basis? Most likely the head of kindergarten. In the school law, however, the decision of the head of kindergartens in administrative proceedings is abandoned, but no other version of the registration is given, so the registration is done in administrative proceedings on the basis of legal interpretations for this deficiency. There are no children's enrollment areas, and they don't know who's coming. We're waiting to see who comes to the record. On the contrary, the possibility of choosing a parent school on the basis of its focus may be abolished when setting up a fallout zone. In practice, there is a debate on whether the real introduction of compulsory pre-school education will help all of them in the last year before entering the primary school of socially disadvantaged children. In general, there is a belief that unfortunately it will not help. At the same time, it is not demonstrated that only one year spent in a mainstream kindergarten will help to adapt to the first year of primary school, and it is clear from practice that the school system of institutions cannot force parents of socially disadvantaged children or to go to primary school, and there is no reason to believe that this would be otherwise for kindergarten schools. What costs will be associated with this measure? The costs won't be too high. This will mainly involve the cost of normalities paid to children who did not go to kindergarten before and will newly attend kindergarten. The assumption of demographic developments is envisaged when the size of the kindergarten population will decrease in the long term. Other partial costs will be linked to support for kindergarten schools in the form of strengthening personnel capacity and greater availability for disabled children. Other costs related to this certainly relate to child insurance. In compulsory attendance, the school's duty is to insure children under the Labour Code. Elementary schools must have this insurance. This is not an obligation in kindergarten schools. Kindergartens provide educational services and therefore not according to the Labour Code. It is therefore necessary to determine the sources of funding to provide children with compulsory attendance in kindergarten. Is the availability of nursery schools ensured? Forest kindergartens and children's groups do not provide pre-school education, they are not in the school register and therefore cannot have compulsory years. How to fit children into kindergartens in risky areas such as Prague etc.? Would socially disadvantaged families also take advantage of this possibility? There are opinions that socially disadvantaged families whose children are now not participating in pre-school education, although this would be desirable, would not benefit from pre-school facilities to a greater extent than in the current state after the introduction of the measures. First, these families do not register their children in kindergartens even at the age of five, when the place in kindergarten is de facto claimed. Secondly, the introduction of eligibility in kindergartens does not remove most of the main reasons for which socially disadvantaged kindergartens do not seek, such as the cost of meals, tuition and transport to kindergarten. [[families]] The fact that many of these families are not aware of the need for pre-school education for the future development of the child. I believe that the Ministry of Education will respond to these comments during the discussion of this House's press, thus helping the kindergarten schools to implement this compulsory pre-school education in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u81	Thank you, Madame. So now the last duly signed up for the debate is Mrs Radka Maxová. I will say that Mr Okleštěk took a replacement card with the number 61. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I'm only exceptionally brief and more practical. To be honest, I know that there has been a debate here, or there is a debate in the galleys that if a compulsory last pre-school year were introduced, it might be linked to social benefits. I did not find any such link anywhere, nor did I find discussions where the Ministry of Education would discuss this with the Ministry of Labour, so that these two things are essentially linked, because we know that for some reason it is also introduced for parents who, for some social reasons, for their previous education, simply do not send their children to schools. And I think that's the point, that is. If you do not send a child, so if the last preschool year is approved for kindergarten, there should be some link to the social assistance they receive from the state. I think there's been a lot of discussion and that even the public would appreciate this in some way. As far as the fallout area is concerned, I am therefore opposed to the introduction of a fallout area, because from my personal experience I know that I live in one city, I work in another city, and therefore I am more suited to having a child in a kindergarten in the city where I work. So I don't think it's the right move. As far as math graduation is concerned, I don't see it as a happy solution again. I myself graduated from mathematics for the only reason that I wanted to continue studying at the University of Chemistry and Technology where they were mandatory entrances from mathematics. So I think we should leave the choice of seniors where they want to go professionally rather than order them to graduate from mathematics, except for the arts. On the contrary, I think that it is now a much greater priority for our students to be equipped with language. So, personally, I would rather prefer a graduation exam from a foreign language, a Czech language, and then, of course, I would leave it in some way specialized. This is just my point that I think, and I would also like to ask the Minister for some explanation as to whether there was a discussion with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in connection with any link to social assistance benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u83	Thank you, Madame. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant or rapporteur whether you will take the final words. First, the plaintiff, if I may.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate, thank you for the topics that you have formulated in the possible amendments, and, of course, thank you for the critical assessments that I will certainly think about, and I will try as a minister in the context of the discussion of this law in the various committees to answer what may be your doubts, but I believe that I will also distract many of them. Now, even with respect for your human rights in terms of the length of the discussion of the amendment to the School Act, I will try to be as brief as possible, but at the same time not to forget anything that Members and Members have called me to in terms of my response. [[16.10 hours]] First, briefly on the question of economic intensity and the capacity of kindergarten schools. Unlike what some people suspected, it's true. To what extent did we deal with the capacity of kindergarten schools? I have dealt with this situation in a very detailed manner, which is why I have a very detailed overview of how we are on capacity, up to the level of the district breakdown. As regards the assumption of how we evaluate capacity, it may be a surprise to you that, overall, we have an excess capacity within kindergarten schools, even after we have put in place a real entitlement to pre-school education for children of four years and three years. Even within the scope of the option, when most children between the ages of three to the beginning of schooling will attend preschool education, so in 2016 it means that problems occur only in Prague-East, Prague-West, Most and can be assumed justified problems in Prague, Kladno, Kutná Hora, Mladá Boleslav, Teplice, Liberec and Brno-City. [[to say 2006]] In the other 67 districts, sufficient capacity for kindergarten schools can be assumed. I'm just pointing out here that in 2016, we're still not making those changes. We haven't realized them since 2017. In 2017, capacity will reside by 76 thousand. places. Problems will be in Prague-West, Prague, Kladno, Mladá Boleslav, Prague-East, Most, Liberec and the Brno-City district will be in trouble. The reason why I sent letters to the Union of Towns and the Association of Local Authorities is because I did not have an idea of the state's investment possibilities, I drew attention to the investment programs of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education in this matter, but I felt it my duty to ask the municipalities how they were planning to develop their municipalities. Because, of course, from a demographic point of view, I can only assume development in children born. I don't know how many children are born, I don't know what kind of movements are going to take place in the territory, for example. development of new investment exhibitions. That means that I, by letter to the Association of Local Authorities and the Union of Towns, went much further than anyone ever did. I am really interested in what the situation is, and in order to avoid problems for the municipalities in the future, or to formulate investment programmes in time, new investment programmes aimed at these needs, so that we behave like governments responsibly in terms of future governments coming. [[Noise in the hall.]] As regards other matters in terms of costs. I'm not gonna say it again. I've said it several times. I can only say briefly here that the amount of funds that we are aiming at investment, material amenities and staff have no equivalent in the last ten years. That means, I don't expect problems in practice. On the contrary, in terms of parental behaviour, and therefore it is also important to communicate with municipalities individually as I have begun, it is that many parents choose not a kindergarten in their home, but a kindergarten in their place of work. So we also want to know about this, and we have a responsibility as a government to know the answers and respond to it. As far as accessibility and transport service are concerned, you know that the proposal assumes collateral at regional level. This is where I actively deal with the county. Neither of the regions had a problem from the point of view of the momentum within 4 km of the residence. With regard to bureaucracy towards parents who are not taking advantage of pre-school education at the moment. So I repeat, on the contrary, preschool education is not understood - here is partly the answer to Marek Benda - as a compulsory schooling, its extension. This is compulsory pre-school education. On the contrary, Nina Nováková is right from the point of view of her assessment that this is a combination of two methods to approach the issue. And for parents who will not want, for the reasons mentioned by Marek Benda, the constitutional ones, or for the reasons referred to by Mr Bendl, for the sake of other tuning, I would say family and working life, satisfying the educational needs of children, so they will simply announce at their place of residence, at a school in need, that they are using individual education. That's all. On the other hand, this school will ensure for them, as a support for their activities under parental responsibility, that even before children could fail under compulsory school registration - and we know that 23 to 26 percent of children are failing, that is just too much - so we will give them support in time in those competences and instructions on how they can educate their children, how to supplement them. I myself am in a generation where, of course, most of our children either attend early years of primary education or kindergarten. My kids go to kindergarten. And I can assure you that I would really be far from burdening my bureaucratic parents with mine. for practical reasons - if I were to take my child to kindergarten, they would catch me there and, of course, they wouldn't compliment me. [[Unbearable noise in the room.]] As regards the comments made by Mrs Nina Nováková, yes, it is true, it is a combination of compulsory education and compulsory schooling. I said in the beginning that we were trying to reconcile -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u85	I apologize, Madam Secretary, for entering into your speech, but I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u86	- unbearable groups, which, of course, look at the education system quite differently, and we have tried to approach them to the maximum. It is precisely because I do not make education a policy, but I consider it a very important matter. And I would like to be able to find a broad consensus in the Chamber of Deputies in the framework of a government proposal or, if necessary, adopted amendments with the legislative support of the Ministry, as I have announced. With regard to topics that have been raised in terms of how we will respond to vaccinations, as is the case with individual education, support for individual second-level education, what will happen with two-year-olds, as we remember from a secondary perspective, in terms of admission tests, how exactly first-round admission procedures will work, round two, how success will be evaluated. Dear ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the course of time, although I could answer, I would refer to the relevant committees... Members are signaling if I should start answering. [[Member Stanjura nods.]] I don't have a problem with that. My fan, Mr. Chairman Stanjura, signals, all right. So I'm going to start answering each other individually. In the case of single admission procedures at secondary schools, it will work so that in terms of what is indicated in some Members' contributions as cut-off score, i.e. determination of success, which, if you do not reach it as a pupil, excludes you from secondary education, this is not the law. This is not even provided for by the implementing regulation. Indeed, the limit, which means success in terms of access to secondary education, is set by the Director. We went in the softer form and added here from the point of view of both pupils and parents - and of course we as the Ministry will know the relevant data from the point of view of these admission procedures, so that schools have to publish what the least successful pupil is receiving. It's a softer form. On the other hand, maybe. And from the point of view of real school optimization, I agree, and I have already said this in the presentation of the amendment to the Education Act, that I am counting on the fact that changes in regional education funding will not be ignored by secondary schools. It must also be taken into account that the changes in regional education funding will appropriately complement these soft government measures towards admission procedures and greater culture and improvement of the environment of secondary education. As for the second round, it is so that, of course, even in the second round, the test is relevant from the point of view of Czech and mathematics, but the relevant provisions of the school law, as it was presented to you, respond to situations where, for example. In the first round the pupil will report to a school where there is no uniform test, there are those talent tests, and thus the law assumes that if such failure in the conservatory will be reported in the second round of secondary school, then the director must choose the equivalent of the comparative test from Czech and mathematics. So it's this situation. [[16.20 hours]] From the perspective of the possible tightening up of the admission procedures at secondary schools, as Mr Novotný has formulated, I see the openness within the relevant committees to prepare a substantive and political agreement with the support of the Ministry in terms of legislative processing. I am not resisting the possible tightening of these admission procedures. However, honourable Members, I want to assure you that the inter-ministerial commentary procedure has shown that there really are too many opinions on how to take it and, on the contrary, there are, of course, different associations and associations that wanted to leave a greater degree of competence to the director, to his judgment or to give greater freedom to children in terms of their access to secondary education at the moment. As regards the issue of vaccination, which has been defined here, I know, of course, that there are different opinions between Members and Members. At this point, I can only report that when it comes to pre-school education from five to six years, I would consider it rational if we allowed it, precisely because it is compulsory pre-school education, and also for children who are not vaccinated, because this obligation does not apply to school attendance from the first class, from six years of age, I am open to discussing it within five to six years, with the fact that at this moment we have done an analysis of the Public Health Act and the interpretation that the Public Health Act does not automatically apply to these children from five to six years of age by releasing the question of vaccination precisely for compulsory education. Of course, I took the children's groups into consideration. However, I will admit that I have been very familiar with the tapestry of the debate held here in the Chamber of Deputies within children's groups. I would just like to point out politely that all the debates that took place here in plenary in the case of the approval of children's groups have stressed that this is a temporary solution, that it is not a replacement of training within kindergarten schools, that we are waiting for the real material and personnel support of kindergarten schools that the government is preparing, and for this reason we are voting as an alternative to the children's group. I would just like to point out that I have become familiar with the current status of the register kept at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. There are therefore 49 children's groups registered here, which is relatively little in terms of registration, because of course there are still many unregistered groups, and I want to inform you that the vast majority of these children's groups are either so-called company kindergartens, or they are children's groups in health establishments, where these children themselves declare that they are intended for children from one to three years of age, which means that it is actually a majority point on the other hand for younger children, not children from five to six years of age. For this reason, as Minister of Education, I did not accept children's groups into the arms of kindergarten schools. However, I honestly report that I am ready in the committees to discuss corporate kindergartens and forest kindergartens because, in general, I consider it a big mistake in previous years that we are, and I see that Members are looking forward to the fact that, in general, we have made a big mistake in the framework of pre-school education and its support as the education of our children, because we have also pushed out the institutions that actually provide education, adopting an education programme for various other bureaucratic reasons precisely from the group of kindergartens, and I fear that we have not been very helpful. As far as criticism of individual education is concerned, you yourself have had the opportunity to hear that part of the Members, on the other hand, are on the verge of individual education at second level. The second part does not like individual education in pre-school education either. To find, of course, an absolute match, I dare say, is almost impossible. I, as secretary, will, of course, seek the greatest possible amount of your majority support. Regarding the subject that perhaps the Czech School Inspectorate should go around schools and, on the basis of an assessment of the so-called quality, maybe have the competence to close, I warn you that this is not really the task of the Czech School Inspectorate. It is not the task of inspection bodies anywhere abroad. I'm more surprised that such a subject is falling. It is true, as was said in Mr Bendl's contribution, that more institutions are doing the question of quality measurement, and I should unite this in a competent manner in the future, so that there is a bit of predictability and order in this, because someone is constantly evaluating and testing our education, but I fear that testing will not help, because I do not feel that we are moving much forward through various tests from the point of view of external institutions. I would also like to respond to Mrs Chalánková or Mrs Putnová's concerns that perhaps kindergarten or preschool education should replace the ambition of parenting. No way. I would also perhaps rather use it for pre-school education, no matter what form we choose it, rather than the concept of teaching, rather than education. I'm far away. On the other hand, I ask Members to realise that most parents ask us, on the contrary, to ensure that pre-school education is as individual as possible, to develop the talent and individuality of their children, to ensure the capacity of kindergartens, and the overwhelming majority of parents, whether they like it or not, are leaving for work after parental leave. You may know better than I do from the point of view of debates in the Chamber of Deputies, how we are really in terms of aligning family and working life. Ambition that perhaps most parents would be lucky enough to devote themselves to their children during their age for five to six years, I might wish it too, but it is not so. I just want to say that as Minister of Education, I focus on 90 percent of my parents and 90 percent of my children. At the same time, I do not deny the individuality of 10 percent of parents who choose otherwise. I think that we balance the two points of view correctly, but it is not possible, in terms of the development of individuality of the minority, to proceed to the fact that what is mostly used will be trampled on. I hope that I have responded to all the comments, with the fact that I will not respond in detail to what I think about higher vocational schools, I will not respond to how we will support talented young people, because this is not part of the proposed amendment. Of course, I have an expert opinion on that. As far as talented young people are concerned, I think I will pleasantly surprise you, as Members and Members, in what we have done or what we do as the Ministry of Education, within committees, but because this is not part of the amendment, as it has been tabled, I am just looking into your ranks and I will, of course, be prepared in matters where you have ideas that are lacking in the amendment, to respond within the committees. For the last time, I am somewhat disappointed by the repeated assessment of the situation of Jan Amos Komenský University. At this point, I will probably be reduced to the fact that I will, of course, be available to explain to every Member who requests it. In terms of interpellation, I'd like to say that I'm involved in the interpelling, but I was sick on Thursday. [[16.30 hours]] In terms of individual concerns, I believe that I have responded to all the comments relating to the text as submitted. I would like to keep what is missing there to the level of committees. Not that I didn't have an opinion, but after all, I confess, I didn't know I was going to compete with the lottery law today. I appreciate this attention towards education and schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u87	Thank you. Now, therefore, the rapporteur, and then with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u88	Thank you. I will try to be brief because I want to say that the debate was very constructive and politically correct, but let me just say that the most resonated students here were talented. For those of you who are not in the picture, I would just like to say the idea that regional talent support networks are being created. If you want any information, you can check it out, of course. 22 factual comments were also made, 14 discussion papers. There was a proposal to reject the law at first reading by the President of the ODS and, at the same time, proposals were made for discussion in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Social Committee and the Constitutional Legal Committee. For myself as rapporteur, I recommend the law to advance to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u89	Have a good evening. Thank you to the rapporteur. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u90	Thank you for the floor. Unlike the Minister, I am not surprised because the law is much more important than the gambling law, when the government is proposing something that it wants to change itself during the year. This is much more important, so I think it's a good thing we're paying due attention. I'd like to focus on two areas that I've already talked about in my first performance. Unfortunately, Madam Secretary has not refuted my doubts. If I understand her final word correctly, it's like I'm saying when there's 80 seats available and 60 kids sign up, how do they end up? They'll all be accepted. Then I don't know why we call it mandatory entrance exams, because it itself evokes the candidate to succeed, he needs to achieve some level. It's clear from the Secretary's speech that he didn't. Maybe in schools where the overhang is today, but there's the same situation today, because even the good guys can't get there because some of them are even better. It's just that there's a lot of interest in good high school for both students and parents. Every city has a famous grammar school - Kapitán Jaroš or Jarošov in Brno, if I'm not mistaken, it's a famous grammar school. I could talk about the famous grammar school in Opava or Ostrava, and it's just common. So it is completely unnecessary to introduce this institute if it is not used in practice. Madam Secretary admitted that they meant well, and then they found out that it would be too strict, so they chose the option that it didn't really matter how it turned out. Then I think we just don't need it, and we'll see when it's in practice, how it's gonna be. Especially in schools where they already have a problem filling capacity. That's what I think they're gonna take back everyone who logged in, and the school principal is definitely gonna take advantage of that. Why else wouldn't he? Why would he shut down his own school if there weren't enough pupils to pass the state-ordered entrance exams? Second thing. So we skate a little bit with preschool education, and how it will be individually, how it will not be bureaucratically demanding. Allow me to quote you from the relevant sections on individual pre-school education: The legal representative of the child for whom pre-school education is compulsory may choose for the child, if justified, to be individually educated. The first hitch that's a legitimate case. Who will judge that this is a justified case? Because the obligation is that the application of a legal representative must contain the name, name and surname, birth number and place of residence of the child, indication of the period in which the child is to be individually educated and the reasons for the individual education of the child. It doesn't say anything about the director judging the grounds. At the same time, the former paragraph is referred to as "reasoned'. I don't understand. Either a request is enough, or someone will judge whether it's reasonable or not. But what's worse, we're gonna stress the kids out, and they're gonna go to rehearsals after three or four months. They'll be in kindergarten for rehearsal! Madam Secretary says, Jesus Christ! Then I will read you the draft paragraph that the Minister submits: The Head of Kindergarten will recommend to the legal representative of the child, who is individually educated, the areas in which the child is to be educated. These areas are based on the framework education programme for pre-school education. And now the exam is, as the Minister says it is not there: The Kindergarten will verify the level of adoption of expected outputs in individual areas and possibly recommend further training to the legal representative. The method and dates of verification, including alternate dates - I don't know if this is a repeated exam as a university, that there is a substitute term - sets the school rules so that the verification takes place between 3 and 4 months at the beginning of the school year. Well, that's good for Christmas! Dear five-year-old, for Christmas, you'll have a rehearsal from Madam Secretary except for your parents' presents and Ježíšek at kindergarten. But if it doesn't work out, you'll have a deadline. The head of the kindergarten, another section where the child was admitted to pre-school education, shall end the child's individual education unless the legal representative of the child has ensured the child's participation in the verification referred to in paragraph 1. 3, even in the alternative. And another paragraph. Appeals against the decision of the head of the kindergarten to terminate the child's individual education shall not have suspensive effect. A after completion of the child's individual education as referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. The child shall not be re-educated individually in accordance with paragraph 5 of this Article. 1. So if we imagine a long-term stay of parents abroad at the time of month 3 and 4 from the beginning of the school year, it will be over for the child and it cannot continue. Madam Secretary shakes his head that she doesn't, so to be right, he has to rewrite these paragraphs. Then he'll really be right. So is it extra bureaucracy, or isn't it, if the director sets up the area, then he's gonna check the baby, watch if they came or didn't come in for the 3rd or 4th month, or end up? Now I return to the question of the enforcement of this parenthood. The Act on Infractions is also being amended, and it is said that if a legal representative does not do so, he may be fined up to CZK 5,000 in criminal proceedings. For $5,000, you can buy it out, maybe a little cheaper. And I'm asking what happens when parents don't pay for this money. And I think that municipalities have enough fines to impose fines, no fees for waste, no fines, no agenda, no agenda, no record, no record, no record every year, no point. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] So I don't understand the exams. The secretary here said if I listened well, 24 percent of the children would fail to enroll in primary school. I don't understand how you can fail writing. I remember reciting Jiří Wolker's mailbox as a child, and I don't know if I got graded or not, but it was enough. I've been enrolled in elementary school, so I don't know if there's gonna be anything like this here, but these absurdities are just included in this bill. It sounds really nice, those general words -- there's a lot of those words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u91	I am very sorry, Mr President, but if we are talking about rehearsals here, please try to be quiet and listen to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u92	Thank you. Many nice words have been said here today about the quality of education, and our critical reservations about this bill aim to make no difference in the quality of education. Those who do the job well will continue to do it well. Those who don't do it well will continue to do it the way it is today. Instead of focusing on the essentials, for example, advise the mayor on how to replace a primary school or a kindergarten director who follows the law, but the school stagnates or simply doesn't do it well. He doesn't stand a chance! He knows it's true, the principal stays there for years, he doesn't break anything, he just doesn't do it well. [[16.40 hours]] Responsibility falls on the founder. Some founders, such as us, in my hometown, have introduced the evaluation and publication of elementary school evaluations many years ago. Through the resistance of the directors. That's what I'm saying. Because the elementary school directors, at least in my hometown, had a lot of reasons why it's wrong that parents won't go about it, that it's confusing, that everyone has other kids in that school, that's why they have... I understand. But it's a clue to those parents who want to explore the quality of schools. They're not all like that. Again, the question of circuits, when we're talking about the question of circuits. In my opinion, the simplest thing is - probably not in Prague, aside from the four largest cities - to determine that the district is one in that city. This is the only way that parents will be motivated, or can be motivated to choose from quality and not from which school is on the side street, so it is closer, so I am entitled to receive a child there. And the last thing I was interested in in the last words of the secretary, actually, two. Madam Secretary, we know you're a secretary. You said "as secretary" about 20 times, but you don't have to say that, we understand that when you're in that position, so as secretary, you do it. [[Fun in the hall.]] It's just to the edge. But you said you found out there was enough preschool capacity in the county. I'm sorry if it was high school, I understand. But the county and kindergarten, it doesn't add up. Those are completely different units. Let's talk about the kindergarten at the place of residence, not the county. Some colleagues here have said that there is something different when the high school kid can do a public transport or an interurban public transport, a train or a bus within the region... But with that preschool kid we can't say well, it's nice that he's not in your village, but in our district, here, 27 km in that direction, there's still time off, and we've found that it's true in 67 counties of the Republic. I don't think that figure is worth anything. I think there's a point in his place of residence, not in the counties. What kind of statistics is that there's a job opening in the county kindergarten? You're probably right, but is that practical advice for those parents who don't have a place to live? I don't think that's practical advice. If you take districts that are relatively structured, mountainous, there can be one way 40, 50 and 60 minutes. So please don't use it as an argument that municipalities can handle it, that there are plenty of places in the district in kindergarten. These are the main reasons for which we insist on our motion to reject. And that's what Mr. Fiala said. If we don't want to gamble with our schools today, then vote with us. I think the stability of Czech education is more important than the experimental attempts of the compulsory entrance exam, the extension of compulsory schooling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u93	Thank you to President Stanjur. And since the debate has been closed, the final words of the Minister and rapporteur have been heard and I note the motion to reject the proposal tabled by ODS President Petr Fiala, I will call on our colleagues from the lobby. There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the rejection of the proposal as submitted by the President of the ODS, Petr Fiala. I am opening the vote on the motion to reject this bill. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 163th vote, 148 Members and Members, for 12, against 115. The motion was not accepted. Now, then, we will consider the motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this motion to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote 164; 149 Members are registered, for 147, 148, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee, but I have here Mr Bendl's proposals, who proposed to order this proposal for further discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Benda, who proposed to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee, and Mrs Chalánková, who proposed to submit this proposal to the Social Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. We will vote on individual proposals. First, Mr Bendl's proposal on the commandment of this bill to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I am opening the vote on the motion for a commandment from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 165 vote, 149 Members and Members registered, for 44, against 60. The motion was not accepted. We will also vote on Mr Benda's proposal at the commandment of the Constitutional Legal Committee. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the constitutionally legal committee. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is vote number 166, 149 Members and Members are registered, for 33, against 77. The motion was not accepted. The last proposal is Mrs Chalánková's proposal on the commandment of the Social Committee. Initiating vote on the Social Committee's commandment. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 167, 149 Members of Parliament, for 65, against 48. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that the proposal has been directed to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee and that no further committee has been ordered. I'm done reading the bill first. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Roman Sklenák, Chairman of the ČSSD MP's club, is now reporting with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u94	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. As we all know, we are still facing an extraordinary meeting, particularly on gambling, and given the advanced hour, I would like to make a procedural proposal to exclude all unnegotiated points from the agenda of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u95	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. I shall begin the vote on the proposal by President Sklenák, in order to exclude all unnegotiated points of this meeting from the agenda. Initiating vote. Whoever's in favor of elimination, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 168, 149 Members and Members, for 77, against 54. The motion was accepted. I'm saying that we've eliminated all the remaining points of this meeting and I'm ending in the 30th... [[Objection.]] Sorry, there's a vote check... Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u96	Vice-President, I would like to call into question the vote because I wanted to vote differently than I voted. I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u97	The lady wanted to say that she voted yes, and she didn't vote on drugs. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u98	I'm on drugs, yes, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u99	...I wanted to vote no - and you are questioning the vote. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u100	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u101	That is so, we will therefore vote on Mrs Kovářová's proposal to challenge the vote. I am opening the vote on Mrs Kovářová's proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 169 vote. 149 Members and Members are registered, for 114, against 14. The motion was accepted. [[16.50 hours]] We will therefore vote once again on the proposal by President Sklenák for the elimination of all remaining items in the meeting. There's a request for everyone to check out, so I'm checking you out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on President Sklenák's proposal to remove all remaining items of the meeting from the agenda. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 170, 149 Members and Members registered, for 82, against 54. The motion was accepted. I'm saying that we've eliminated all remaining items in the agenda. Before I close the meeting, Mr Černoch, President Stanjura, came forward with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u102	Thank you, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to question the vote, I want to question what's going on here. We agreed to discuss this today. I understand that both school law and sport are very important laws. We also consider it a really important law... [[A sneeze in the hall.]] Sorry, say hello to God. [[- It's true.]] An important amendment law on churches, and I think that these laws should have been discussed and not broken. If we are really showing how we are going to approach the proposals, how they will be discussed, with the fact that they will be rejoined at the next meeting, and then the coalition will walk and say how we build and how the laws are not discussed because of us. I think this was a very regular discussion on school law. There would be a debate now, and our proposal would be very short, just a justification. There was no reason to eliminate it, these points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u103	Thank you to Prime Minister Černoch. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura, after whom President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u104	We have seen the typical implementation of agreements by the government coalition. There was an agreement to discuss three points in order, even one opposition. That was the deal. You just canceled this agreement with the vote. We're not even surprised anymore, we're not upset. I mean, we who aren't on vacation, who aren't in the Emirates or anywhere else, we're here. We have arrived at the planned three points of this meeting. And... it's not happening. So the next time Chairman Sklenák or any other member of the government coalition is making up for no chaos, chaos reigns here. Deals just don't work. When I hear from President Faltýnek again about how his movement will push through the opposition window at each meeting, I'll just come and say, "It's not true. He's not telling the truth. How come at each meeting you're promoting the opposition window, how come we agreed to discuss the deputies' proposal from our Dawn colleagues, how come you're shutting it down now? These deals don't work anymore? And now there's a point and you're going to say, but there was a deal that you wouldn't veto. No, that's what we agreed! And I don't know what we're gonna do. We'll just talk about it. It can't be a one-way deal that the opposition will keep what it promised, and the government coalition will drop the deal at the first moment. So chaos continues to reign here. It wasn't collegial, we'll remember that, and don't come to us for making any deals. You're just not willing to keep your deals. You can do it, but you're not willing to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u105	There. With another priority right, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek, after whom President Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u106	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Černoch said it shouldn't have been interrupted. It gets worse. It wouldn't be very logical, but it could be accepted. But it completely cynicalized. Contrary to all the agreements, it was completely cynical tossed out the window. We made you a promise, we made a deal. Everyone came to work today, too, except for the one who asked for the emergency meeting, because it's not worth it. And we're gonna break all these deals because it's not right for us! Because we talked longer. Us! Notice how many of us didn't get off here. I've been so defensive to the school code, I haven't even stepped out once. If you count it, there were a lot more coalition MPs talking. I admired your secretary of education. I would immediately engage her in obstruction if I could. But I don't want to limit anyone to the length of the performance. But you've been stalling here until five o'clock, and then cynically knocking out everything we agreed on just because you want to discuss something that should have been discussed on Friday, and Friday it couldn't be discussed because the Minister of Finance was unable to ensure that there's an increase law - it's not a gambling law. With that, the Minister has been late for a year and a quarter. It's just a law about raising tax rates on gambling, where the minister, who had it here, who was supposed to make sure it got here on Monday, didn't get here on Monday, because he just has an extraordinary mess in his office. That's how it got here on Tuesday, so there's got to be an emergency meeting tonight. And don't try to say that the Office of the Government should have done it! Don't even try to say it! I've been in that government for six years, and I know this is the duty of every minister who's a translator to make sure at the moment when the deadline is under pressure to secure it at the Office of the Government. If you say it's the government's fault, it's not. The government has a deadline for that, three or four days. The minister who knows he's under pressure is supposed to make sure of it that day. Minister Babiš knew it was to be secured that day, just as many of us knew it in the past, and our professional authorities always did. Since it's completely unprofessional, that it's just chaos, that it's caused a breakdown in personnel, so no one was able to bring it here on Monday, so it didn't get here until Tuesday, so we couldn't discuss it on Friday, because the rules apply - so far, so far - for everyone. So far, Babiš hasn't made sure she doesn't apply the negotiating rules, so he had to ask for an emergency meeting he didn't come to. What would he be doing here? It's his law, his laxity, his messyness. And since you were discussing that point for five hours before, you completely cynically threw out all the points that mattered to us. Moreover, you have also damaged the Minister of Education, because anyone who has only read it a little bit, anyone who understands it a little bit knows well that the Education Act with the Sport Support Act should have been discussed in one day, at one time, because it is consistent together! Which, of course, Mr. Sklenák, doesn't know as well as the club's leadership, because they haven't read it at all. It is important for them to discuss quickly what could not be discussed on Friday, because the Minister of Finance is an irresponsible slacker!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u107	I beg the Prime Minister to avoid any insults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u108	I'm sorry, an irresponsible slacker is a definition in this case, not an insult. I insist. [[Glee in the hall.]] We're not going to give it back to you at the emergency meeting, because demagogy and your power in the media and your payout journalists would be able to explain to the public that we're giving it back to you because we're defending gambling, which is really not our job, and we've done it several times. Rather, Minister Babiš is a supporter of illegal gambling. But if we don't give it back to you at this meeting right now, it doesn't mean we won't give it back to you at all. And since, unlike you, we're not amateurs, it's gonna hurt you, co-workers. Forget about some deals. You're incapable of following them!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u109	There. Now with priority rights, President Roman Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u110	Thank you for the floor. It's more complicated than that. Of course, I am applying to the agreement, and we have also informed the media that it is planned to discuss five points today. Three from a properly held meeting and two from an extraordinary meeting. However, there is also a need to respond to the course of the meeting. I don't know which one of us assumed that the first point would be five hours. And I'm not, I'm not in the habit of reconstructing from this place the conversations I hold in this House. But as I held today's talks during the discussion of the school law, interviews with the presidents of opposition coalition clubs, I have clearly come to the conclusion that it is evident that there is an intention for us not to open the extraordinary meeting at all, because, of course, we know that if we did not end the proper meeting within 19 hours, the extraordinary would not be able to begin. So it also needs to be perceived that we agreed to do all five points, not just the first three. So on my part, it wasn't some violation, or coalition, of the agreements, but you know that we're meeting here today primarily to make the first point of an emergency meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u111	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now Vice-President Vondráček. After him, Mr. Chairman Černoch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u112	Thank you. Since I'm the last one to sign up, and it's usually said without me, I'd just sum it up. Whether we've been stalling or not, we've been stalling for five hours. It was said repeatedly that the discussion was constructive, it was factual and it was democratic and it was appreciated. I'd keep it that way, that's what it should look like. Really. Yes, it took five hours. And I assumed that part of the agreement that was being interpreted to me was a certain timetable. As my colleague Sklenák said, so that we can even get this extraordinary meeting started. And it was also said that the government proposal, which really mattered to the Minister, had been eliminated. It was one-to-one. I'm sorry this discussion didn't take place before we voted, it was a mistake. If the opposition sees this as a violation of agreements, I have no choice but to apologize in this regard for having this conversation earlier, but the intention is clear - to follow some timetable. So we took it. I'm sorry this discussion just didn't take place before, I guess the space was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u113	Now the priority rights: first Mr Černoch, after him President Stanjura, after him President Kováčik, after him President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u114	By your means, Mr President, I would like to ask President Sklenák when we spoke. Mr President, you came to tell me a little while ago that it will simply be eliminated. Over. End. And saying we talked isn't true. You said you spoke to the president of the MPs during the day. You didn't talk to me. Or you didn't talk to us. And the reason is clear. 'Cause you just feel like you don't have to do it all you want. That's right. That's right. There was an agreement made, as colleagues said here, that spoke constructively, and if we agreed on something, then if we didn't comply with the agreement, at this point, if - if we behaved the same as you, I would take a two-hour break, which would bring it all down. And I'm not gonna do it just because we're taking this job seriously and we want to talk about the laws. The fact that there is an extraordinary meeting, that we have agreed to discuss this law, which, from our point of view, is just very important, the amendment to the churches. So we're not gonna do this, we're not gonna take a two-hour break, which would end this meeting. But if we really do, if we treat each other in a way that if we make a deal, we make a deal, then we just don't keep it... And you're also saying that you spoke to the president of the MPs here this afternoon. He didn't talk like that. We didn't talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u115	Thank you to Prime Minister Černoch. President Stanjura, please, Mr President, after him, President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u116	I will now speak to my colleague Vondráček through you. Well, it didn't occur to me that if there's a deal made, I have to make sure that it's still on. Do we understand what the problem is? The agreement is to be guaranteed not by the individual Members, but by the club presidents who were present at the agreement. I will not blame the individual Members, as they voted. Club presidents are supposed to guarantee agreements that have been concluded. And one of yours, one of ours, it just isn't. There was an agreement, and most government MPs, not all of them, destroyed it. It's that simple. And when President Sklenák said, as what we whispered to each other, he should admit that I advised him to gamble today at 12 o'clock, that we should not be limited in time, that there is always a long debate on the school bill in every parliamentary term, and that is a good thing. Not so fast, 30 minutes, we have to hurry. Did I advise you, Mr. Chairman, to start with gambling? Let's get this over with, and we can focus on what's clearly more important, and that's the school code. He advised. No, you started with school law. The debate wasn't even very long, five hours is less than usual in the school code. It's a much more important law. What do we do now, what do we have to discuss quickly? A government bill that lays down rules for one year. At the same time, there's another government bill in the same thing, and all the parameters you want and need to approve by the end of the year, you're changing that government bill by the end of the year. Shall I tell you what Mr. Volný's proposal looked like? Twenty-five percent to all. Then there was a coalition council meeting, it's probably a special legislative place, they said it would be 23, 28. Then she met again, it was 23, 28, 80 crowns a day. If he hadn't been lying here - and still a share of the municipalities 40: 60. State 40, municipality 60. If the government's bill, which does not say 23, 28 and 80 crowns, was not lying here at the same time, it says 25, 30 and 35, which also says a share between state and municipalities 35 : 65. So what are you guys telling us? You're changing what you need to approve quickly by yourself with another bill that's already here! You're completely out of your mind! And you don't keep deals! It's that simple. So don't call our one, your one. You guys took out both of them. Did you really expect us to discuss the school bill, the important thing, for 20 minutes? We warned you that the debate would be long, as always. Take a look at any parliamentary term when the school code was being discussed. It's important, and there's a lot of debate. And if the Minister, the rapporteur and the government Members appreciate that the debate was correct, then what's the problem? Now we've been talking for 20 minutes, maybe we could have had the sport done. Or a proposal from colleagues. But you're so afraid of the absent minister, what if it didn't happen to him... Look, that's a priority, huh? I commend the Minister of Transport, by name. There's only one. In an emergency meeting. One minister. And the traffic doesn't have a bill there. That would be logical. Where are the others for whom it's a priority? Seventeen members of the government, right? [[Voice from the O.R.]] Sixteen is, Marek says we haven't seen one in a while, like, 16 for sure. And there's one sitting here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u117	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now with priority rights, President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u118	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, when I look around the Chamber of Deputies, Members and Members came to work at an extraordinary meeting. They're not on vacation, either domestic or foreign. At least in a large, large, large majority. I had a certain hope for the debate over school law. Despite the fact that I've been here so long and that I've had quite a lot of experience, I was still optimistic that this day might be a reasonable day. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, is not present here at the moment, I say gently, but also with the right-wing opposition as well as with the government coalition, after all, we had such a small hope that it might go well, that we would simply rise above a number of things that we do not rise above at other times, and that we would, above all, be involved in addressing the material, material nature that is contained in every press that we are to discuss. Maybe somebody thinks it's hard to find, but there's always a substance there. Then all of a sudden, without any tangible reason, I'd say they're pulling their pants down when the ford is still far away, because the 19th hour hasn't come far, and we counted, confess, we've been counting on being here for a while after the 19th hour, so that we can also have a responsible discussion of the points that were expected to be discussed. And all of a sudden, the rest of it suddenly comes out here, the two points that were supposed to be here, from the agenda of this meeting. And why am I coming to the counter? I hear we're actually supposed to be absolutely calm, because the trick was actually 1: 1. One point fell coalition, one point fell opposition. And I'm trying to underline that word. [[17.10 hours]] We know that all agreements will not always be kept in full detail, that there may be some objective reasons for non-compliance. Here I see mainly subjective causes and perhaps even a little discrepancy not only between the coalition and the opposition, but perhaps even in the coalition. I'm not gonna be as tough as my colleague Černoch. But after all, the level needs to be calmed down, so please give us a chance to get what happened here, in the KSČM MP's club, and for that, I need a quarter-hour break, which I am now asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u119	I'm registering your request for a break, but I'm going to end the 30th. I'm done with this 30th... Oh, in that meeting, that's right. I'm sorry. So I'm declaring a 15-minute break for the KSČM MP's meeting. Meet me here at 5:00 p.m. 26 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. The break for the KSČM club meeting ended. And since the meeting, even according to the Steno Protocol, I checked with my colleague Gazdík, no one has finished yet, and I have applications with priority rights, we will continue the 33rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. First, Mr Černoch, then Mr Kalousek, both with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u121	Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Since the meeting has not yet been adjourned, I would ask for a re-location of the excluded points, in accordance with § 54 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u122	That, my colleague, is possible. However, we must proceed by approving, first of all, whether there is such an emergency situation that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to change the programme outside the period during which it is the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Before I vote on the proposal tabled here by Mr Černoch, I will ask the Chamber of Deputies if the Members are of the opinion that there has been an emergency situation for which we will change the House of Deputies' agenda outside the time during which the programme is being discussed. We will decide in the vote order number 171 and ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 171, 129 in favour of 86, against 11. The motion was accepted. We will therefore discuss the proposal to amend the agenda of the meeting, and I ask Mr Černoch to specify his proposal on which point of the agenda it is because most of the items of the programme have been eliminated, which means that we can only include a point in the current meeting unless two parliamentary clubs or 20 Members oppose it. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u123	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your support. I would propose to include point 105, it's an amendment about churches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u124	Yes. Point 105 was originally included in the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, was previously excluded from the meeting and we therefore propose re-inclusion. Mr Vondráček is reporting for the agenda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u125	I only have a specific comment on the proposal. We were blamed that we were surprised here that, without any consultation, there was a way of proposing and voting. I raised my hand for it and raised my hand for it and the members of the YES to allow this discussion. And it was a friendly gesture. But again, I don't like the fact that no one came to us, and here's the proposal... We had a 15-minute break. [[A disturbance and a sudden noise in the hall.]] You're accusing us of not talking to you at all. Who's been dealing with us now? Like, don't be mad at me, but this procedure isn't right either. So if we want to communicate, the communication must be on both sides.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u126	Mr. Ambassador, we're discussing the agenda. Really hard to admit. prosit, Chairman of the TOP 09 Club with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u127	I would just like to remind, with all due respect, the President-in-Office of the ANO Club that Mr Černoch claims nothing but an agreement that has long been made. That point was placed on the agenda for today's meeting, we all agreed with him. I stress that I do not agree with its substance, but that is not the problem that we are discussing. We all agreed that the point would be discussed. You've decided to break the debate without consulting anyone. You've disabled that point. And Mr Černoch does not invoke anything other than your word whether the original agreement is valid or not. What else should he be discussing? We're not starting from zero. That's a polite question: what did you promise last week? Or isn't that true? If it doesn't work, just cover it up and let's move on. But let's see how we feel about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u128	Thank you. Unless there's another draft on the agenda... Mr. Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u129	I'm sorry. I thought there was no other proposal. I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote. Ten minutes for the YES movement and for the club presidents' meeting, so we can get out of this in a solid, serious and permanent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u130	Ten minutes, sir? [[Yes.]] Okay. It's 5:32 p.m. At 17.42 we will continue the 33rd meeting with a vote before us on the new inclusion of item No. 105. I'm declaring a break until 17.42 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, as I promised one of my fellow Members, I have begun three times so that everyone can come to the hall after the break and vote on the procedural proposal tabled by Mr Marek Černoch, namely the inclusion of point 105 in the 33rd meeting, which was otherwise exhausted after the launch of the other points. I have no protest from 20 MPs or two MPs. The Chamber of Deputies has voted that we can vote on this proposal outside the time limit, which is why I am opening the vote number 172 and asking who is in favour of this point. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 172, from 139 in favour of 93, against five. The motion was accepted. So we're going to discuss... We're not going to talk yet. Before starting the point, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek came forward. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u132	Thank you. I'm happy that at least half a step of goodwill has been done, just to remind you, colleagues, that you've eliminated two points. The one you have now classified, and then you have eliminated the law on promoting sport, which is consistent with the school law that we have discussed, and it was quite important that they be discussed together. As an opposition Member, I could not afford to propose that we discuss it as well. But I've been waiting for your reaction, and from your reaction, it's quite obvious how much you value the support of youth, sports and sports, and how terribly terrified you are of an absentee presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-27-ps2013-033-09-001-067.u133	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I'm just gonna check to see if all the apologies are loaded. Before I give the floor to Mr Marek Černoch, I shall make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Jiří Štětina, Mrs Dobešová, apologizes from today's meeting and further apologizes to Mr Běhounek, who I see here. And between 19 and zero, Mrs Olga Havlová apologizes. He's probably assuming tonight's gonna be a tough night. Since nothing was voted to force us to act after 19 o'clock. There you go. Mr Marek Černoch, who is a representative of the group of Members who proposed press 453, which is
