ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u1	1. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on migration problems I ask that the Prime Minister take the lead. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable Members, I am very pleased that The Chamber of Deputies has included this item on its agenda, and it allows me to speak on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and inform on the current government policy on this matter. I think that I do not need to emphasise on the ground of this Chamber of Deputies that the migration situation in Europe is extremely serious. Since the middle of June, when I last introduced you to the current developments here, the situation has become even more complicated within Europe. Statistics on the seizures of illegal migrants in the European Union for the first half of 2015 show a significant increase. Compared to the same period last year, their number increased from 91 thousand to 225 thousand, which is an increase of 143 percent. The most dynamic development was on the migration route of the Western Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean. In recent weeks, the crisis has escalated particularly in Hungary. The route through the central Mediterranean, i.e. from Libya, is now showing relatively stable numbers. On the western Balkan route there was an increase in the number of crossings of the external borders from 6,000 crossings in the first half of last year to more than 67,000 this year. The most important group of illegal migrants are the citizens of Syria, which were detected in the European Union by more than 45 thousand in July this year. Nearly 25,000 people came from Afghanistan and followed with a significant distance by the citizens of Eritrea with roughly 7,000. The development of the number of applications for international protection in the European Union has been very dynamic lately. In 2014, the number of such applications increased by 43 percent. So last year there were 660 thousand applications for international protection in the European Union, in 2015, we have already recorded 450,000 requests for international protection in the first six months. In June this year alone, almost 100,000 people requested international protection in the European Union. The most important group among applicants are the citizens of Syria, Afghanistan, but also Kosovo, Albania or Eritrea. The largest number of applications were submitted in Germany and Hungary. Not only from these figures, it is clear how serious the European Union is now. On 13 May this year, the European Commission published a communication entitled the European Agenda for Migration, presenting its vision for the further functioning of the European Union's migration policies. The programme was then specified by the Commission on 27 May by follow-up proposals. In the form of a non-binding recommendation, the Commission requested Member States to relocate a total of 20,000 persons qualified for international protection to their territory from third countries. As regards relocation, the Commission initially proposed to use the emergency relocation mechanism. About 24,000 asylum seekers from Italy and 16,000 asylum seekers from Greece were to be relocated. In both cases, they were supposed to be people of Syria and Eritrea. The idea of the distribution key and the concept of compulsory involvement in the relocation were subsequently rejected by the Member States at the June European Council. In July, then, the Member States agreed to relocate more than 22,000 people from third countries in the next two years. So we managed to exceed the target amount of 20,000. At the same time, at the June European Council, it was agreed that the Member States were relocationing 40,000 people from Italy and Greece in the coming two years, with agreement on how to distribute them during July. The July Justice and Home Affairs Council failed to reach an agreement on this overall number. The Member States agreed only to relocation some 32,000 people, with the view that the distribution of the remaining ones should have been decided by the meeting of the Interior Ministers in November or December. At the same time as the distribution mechanisms, measures in the fight against smugglers have also been debated in recent months. At the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council on 18 May, the feasibility of a military naval mission aimed at combating smugglers in the Mediterranean region was discussed in the format of the Defence and Foreign Affairs Ministers. The ministers approved the concept of crisis management of the military operation and the decision to establish this operation. The military operation was divided into three parts. The first part is patrolling and monitoring in international waters, interventions against illegal vessels in international waters, interventions against illegal vessels in Libyan territorial waters. The first phase of the operation was launched in June and a debate is now expected on the decision on the transition to the second stage. On 15 July, the Commission published the parameters of the so-called hotspots system. The aim of the system is to provide comprehensive and targeted assistance to Member States facing the biggest migration crisis at the external borders through European Union agencies. This Commission proposal focuses on Italy and Greece. For each country, it presents a travel map that takes account of legal, financial and other aspects. Last Wednesday, i.e. On 9 September, the Commission presented another package of migration proposals, which will be discussed intensively at the next negotiations. Part of the package is mine. a new provisional measure for the relocation of an additional 120,000 asylum seekers from Italy, Greece and Hungary, as well as a proposal for a permanent relocation scheme, new measures in return policy, a list of safe countries of origin or a proposal to set up a trust fund to help African countries. The extraordinary Council of Interior Ministers on 14 September approved a relocation mechanism concerning 40,000 persons proposed by the Commission in May. On the other hand, the debate on its extension of another 120,000 has not reached agreement, in particular because several countries, including the Czech Republic, make their agreement to maintain the voluntary nature of the mechanism and its link with the rapid implementation of measures to ensure the protection of external Schengen borders and effective asylum and return procedures. It can be assumed that the debate at the level of the Interior Ministers should continue on 8 and 9 October. [[14.50 hours]] The summit, which will take place on 11 and 12 November in Valletta, with the participation of Heads of State or Government of the Member States of the European Union as well as representatives of African countries, should also address the causes of the migration crisis. The aim of the summit will be to establish more intensive communication and cooperation with African migration partners. In particular, the Summit should address the causes of migration, legal migration and mobility, international protection and asylum, the fight against smuggling and trafficking in human beings, as well as progress in return policy and the conclusion of readmission agreements. In connection with the rapid deterioration of the migration situation in the Western Balkans, Hungary is also preparing to hold a conference in Budapest. This conference could take place at the beginning of October. As for the current situation right here in the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is not a target country for refugees, nor are we in a comparable situation to Hungary. From the beginning of the year until the end of August 990 applications were submitted for international protection. This is a slight increase compared to last year. If the trend does not change, and there is no reason to do so, in 2015, approximately 400 applications for international protection will be submitted in the Czech Republic more than last year. More than half of these asylum applications in the Czech Republic concern the citizens of Ukraine, the other are citizens of Cuba and the citizens of Syria are only third. A total of around seven or eight dozen requests for international protection have been submitted by the Syrian citizens since the beginning of this year. The Government of the Czech Republic has consistently addressed the serious situation in the area of migration from the first moment so that we can control the situation and, as a country, be prepared to meet our commitments. As of 17 June of this year, measures of the Police of the Czech Republic have been implemented, which has strengthened the stay checks on the selected routes along transit illegal migration routes. So far, more than 2,700 people have been found under these control measures, of which roughly half have been Syrian citizens, but a significant part have also been citizens of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, and Bangladesh. Thus, from this information we have from the Police of the Czech Republic, it is clear that among the people who illegally cross our territory are the most citizens among the countries in which there is a war conflict. I will repeat again: Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq. But it also affects citizens from countries like Pakistan and Bangladesh. On 13 July this year, the government approved an increase in the capacity of equipment for securing foreigners, namely the transfer of the premises in Vyšní Lhotách into the management of the Ministry of Interior and the increase in capacity in Bělá-Jezová. We also agreed to prepare a reserve object in Balkova. Today we have prepared capacities in the Czech Republic, which are not yet fully used in terms of securing foreigners. We have also increased the capacity to carry out residence checks by another 60 police officers. Ladies and gentlemen, from 17 July, a special working group at the level of the Deputys has been meeting at the Ministry of the Interior, which aims to prepare for the implementation of relocation and relocation into the Czech Republic, as well as the smooth course of integration of all these people into our society. At the turn of August and September, we also tested the cooperation of the police, the regional authority and the institution of social-law protection of children, which will be crucial for the smooth course of reception of refugees, which we promised to provide refuge. The current situation in the area of migration is also the subject of negotiations by the Security Council of the State. The Bureau of the Security Council of the State, meeting on 10 September this year, was particularly convened to discuss the current issues of migration. At this meeting, the Minister of Interior informed about measures aimed at addressing the current migration problems. At a meeting of the Security Council of the State, which will take place on 30 September, information will be submitted on the current situation in migration in the Czech Republic. The intelligence services shall further analyse the security aspects of migration according to their scope. This analysis will also be addressed by the Security Council of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you about the Czech procedure and also about the V4's progress in addressing the current serious European situation. From the outset, we believe that the current migration situation and the arrival of refugees into European countries require a European solution. That is why I also called an extraordinary summit of the Heads of Government of the V4 countries to Prague on 4 September, which was focused solely on migration issues. This meeting of the Prime Ministers of the V4 had two objectives. Firstly, declare that the V4 countries want to remain active in the Union's solutions to the migration problem and that they are ready to offer and implement the necessary support and solidarity measures, whether bilaterally or at European Union level, in all areas where this is meaningful. It's not true that we're not solidarity. On the contrary, the second aim of the summit was to present a comprehensive set of common priorities for the V4 countries as a contribution to the debate on migration and refugee policy that is being conducted across the European Union. We agreed with our colleagues from Slovakia, Poland and Hungary on common priorities. These priorities are included in the joint statement, which represents the main conclusion of the V4 Summit, which took place in Prague. The starting point of the V4's common position is in particular that the migration situation cannot be resolved by one partial measure; on the contrary, a comprehensive approach is needed; it is necessary not only to address the consequences of migration, but to focus primarily on the causes. The European Union must make full use of all its policies and resources. At the same time, all Member States must comply with the rules in force, whether they are legislation, especially as regards Dublin regulations, asylum rules and the like, as well as respect political agreements from European Councils. Unfortunately, many Member States, Greece first started, do not follow these rules. On a concrete level, we agreed at the summit that effective control and protection of the European Union's external borders should be ensured by the urgent establishment of a functional registration system, an effective return policy, the creation of a common list of safe countries. We supported the Commission's proposal for the rapid establishment of the so-called hotspots. We call for the European Union not to reduce the migration issue only to the Mediterranean region, the emphasis must be placed on the migration path through the Western Balkans, because there is enormous pressure on the European Union. When I come back to the conclusions of the V4 Summit, we have clearly put emphasis on maintaining the voluntary nature of the European Union's solidarity measures. In this way, each Member State can build on its experience, on its best practices and on available resources. Any proposal aimed at introducing mandatory and permanent quotas for solidarity measures is unacceptable to the V4 countries. We remain in this position as the Czech Republic, and this position was also held by the Interior Minister at the meeting of the Interior Ministers in the last day. As a V4, we also agree on a more effective action by the European Union in combating organised crime and smuggling, on the need to contribute more actively as the European Union to address the situation in Syria, Libya and the Middle East. We clearly support the long-term solution of the situation as V4, that is, the conclusion of readmission agreements, the focus of development aid on countries with which we need to conclude return readmission agreements. Last Monday, I also met with Austrian Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann and Prime Minister Robert Fic in Bratislava after the V4 Summit. I explained to the Austrian Chancellor the interest of the Czech Republic that the current migration crisis would not endanger good and friendly neighbourly relations in Central Europe, which we have been building and building for 25 years. [[15.00 hours]] There's no point in lashing each other over the media. Furthermore, I introduced the Austrian Chancellor to the results of the V4 Summit. Chancellor Faymann tried to convince us of the necessity of introducing quotas for refugees by the Slovenian Prime Minister. In his speech, however, he also stressed the importance of proper guarding the external Schengen border, and that is undoubtedly what we agreed on. The Czech Republic is ready to actively participate in the resolution of the migration crisis, but we do not consider mandatory quotas a good solution. We reject them. In August, I also took advantage of the opportunity to discuss the topic of migration with the Prime Minister, who is an important transit state, and this is Serbia. Serbia seems to be dealing with even greater effects of the migration wave in the coming months than it was in the past period. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the issues of temporary border controls. In our joint statement, which we have issued as the prime ministers of the V4 countries, we have made clear our commitment to fulfilling our obligations under the rules in force in the European Union, including responsibility for protecting the external borders of the European Union, as well as respect for the rules of the Schengen area. If we have become one part of Schengen, then we have a duty to comply with the rules on which Schengen arose. And it does not only concern the Czech Republic, but also other countries of the Schengen area. This position is still up to date in the light of recent events, where some states, including Slovakia, Austria, Germany, have strengthened their border controls, and Germany has even temporarily proceeded to restore border controls between Germany and Austria. These checks are undoubtedly a response to the tensions that are triggered within the Schengen area by the migration crisis and the strong flow of refugees, which are heading through Hungary, Austria, to Germany in these weeks. As regards the German temporary measure at the border, Germany has the right under the Schengen rules to such a temporary measure. It's not the first case that's been going on lately. Similarly, Germany temporarily renewed border controls with a view to ensuring security during the G7 summit. I would also like to inform you, honourable Members, that the Ministers of the Interior of the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic have also agreed to strengthen police forces at the border with Austria, both on the main and other selected draws, as well as on selected sections of the green border between our countries. In addition, about 200 police officers were targeted at the Czech-Austrian border. Checks will not replace permanent border control, this is a temporary measure, but we will adapt the current migration situation from the point of view of intensity. Slovakia has taken the same measures as the Czech Republic and has also adopted this measure at its borders with Hungary. The government therefore evaluates the current situation at the border between the Czech Republic and Austria. In the event that the police request reinforcement during checks at these borders, this strengthening will be provided to them. If the forces of the other armed forces are not sufficient, the government is ready to approve the deployment of the army, with military members exercising the powers of police officers in checks at our borders. The current section, which we are monitoring intensively at the moment, is the section of the Czech-Austrian border, which can currently be exposed to the greatest strain. So at this point, the intensity of the control and protective measures on our southern border will be set according to the current situation. Of course, the police have workers in the surrounding countries, including Austria, including Slovakia and Hungary. So we are monitoring the situation not only at the border, but we are trying to monitor the situation intensively in those areas around the Czech border. So, honourable Members, allow me to sum up the position held by the Czech Government at the end of my speech. Our position remains constant and I am convinced that even consistent. We are interested in a common European solution to the problem. National measures that are not coordinated will only lead to the breakdown of the common migration policy, the restriction of the free movement of persons and Schengen cooperation, and ultimately the breakdown of the whole Schengen system. It must be acknowledged that the current system of migration policies of the European Union is not working. It does not work, in particular, under such strong pressure as the largely ignored civil war in Syria for four years. After four years in which this war lasts, there has been such strong migration pressure, which basically leads to the collapse of the existing functioning of the Schengen system. The solution to the crisis is, in the Czech Republic's view, an overall change that should be based on the following pillars: 1. Protection of the external border. It is not possible for any formation, any stable prosperous entity, to exist in today's world surrounded by such serious risks without being able to effectively regulate the migration flows that are heading into its territory. Neither the United States nor Canada nor Australia, any other prosperous rich states, all have a regime to protect their external borders. Protection of external borders is also needed by the European Union. 2. This system of protection and regulation of migration must ensure that legitimate refugees and economic migrants are sorted under dignified conditions. Under decent conditions for everyone at the external borders of Schengen, people who are actually fleeing the war and seeking protection in Europe, saving their lives, and people who are merely joining the current within the standard classic economic migration that we have experienced here in various forms for the past 25 years must be distinguished. 3. We need the prevention of migration movements. We need Europe to focus its financial resources on regions surrounding the region of instability. We need more massive help from Turkey, we need more massive help from Lebanon, Jordan, the countries to which the most people from Syria escaped from the Syrian war. Massive assistance from the European Union to these regions to prevent further, secondary movement in the context of migration. We need the return of economic migrants. This is a policy that does not work around the European Union. There are a huge number of countries around the European Union with which there are still no readmission agreements. That needs to be changed. So we must combine development aid, support from the European Union with pressure to conclude return agreements, there must be an obvious Readmission Policy aimed at the whole of the European Union. Finally, what we need is the international protection of legitimate refugees. The Czech Republic is ready to be solidarity. Like in the Balkan War, we can take care of a large number of legitimate refugees, people who apply for asylum in the Czech Republic, they get asylum here, they want to live in the Czech Republic because it is a refuge for them, and they want to integrate. They will respect our laws that apply in the Czech Republic. So the international protection of legitimate refugees must be something that is a natural thing in Europe. Redistributing legitimate refugees can only make sense if the system I was talking about works. The biggest problem that Europe could get into would be the approval of quotas in a situation where the protection of the external border and the regulation of migration are not ensured. This would only serve as an invitation to further economic migration, as we have seen in recent weeks. In such a situation, it is simply not possible for the Czech Government to accept the approval of a system of compulsory relocation and mandatory quotas. We will continue to stress the need to focus on resolving the causes of the crisis rather than addressing the consequences, to endlessly discuss the mechanical redistribution of refugees who do not want to stay in the Czech Republic anyway, because they are going to Germany or going to Sweden. [[15.10 hours]] The priority of the common European policy must be to stop the war in Syria and Libya, and within the international coalition against ISIL it is necessary to focus on defeat, or at least a rapid significant weakening of the Islamic State. The defeat of the Islamic State is one of the factors that can calm the situation across the region and reduce migration pressures. Therefore, the Czech Republic is also part of the coalition against ISIL and we play an active role there. We certainly support that there is a list of safe countries here, because we are seeing people coming to Europe from countries where there is no war where there is no instability. It is evident that this is an economic migration. And Europe needs a clear list of safe countries where asylum seekers from these countries will not have, or only have a minimum chance of receiving asylum in the European Union. The problem of migration, honourable Members, is indeed complex. It is not possible to describe it in the brief speech I have chosen for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to thank you for your attention, and I would like to assure you that the government will proceed on the basis of the principles that I described in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister. I am opening a general debate. I have a factual point here, Madam Vice-President. Then there is the factual remark of Mr Fiedler. One more point in fact, colleague Holík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 59 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. One and two, I suggest we limit speaking time to two or ten minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. This is a proposal that we will decide without debate. However I think we will have to vote twice, because it is two proposals according to different paragraphs of one paragraph. This means that we will first decide by voting in accordance with § 59 para. 1 that speaking time will be limited to 10 minutes. I'm asking you to sign up again because I checked you out. A new registration, please. I will apologize to Mr Brázdil between 16 and 19 before the number of people is settled, and I will specify that Minister Zaorálek is only excused until 14.30, because he is already here, he was only excused for the first 15 minutes of the meeting. Since it seems that all those who want to vote are in the hall, I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees to restrict speaking time to 10 minutes. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 10, registered is 153, for 88, against 60. The motion was accepted. And now pursuant to § 59 para. 2 we will be voting on the fact that, on this point, I think, of course, the Member may speak not more than twice. Initiating the vote, I ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 11, registered is 153, for 88, against 60. [[The motion was accepted.]] We have therefore decided that, under this point, the speaking time is limited to ten minutes and that each Member may speak not more than twice. Now, therefore, the factual remark made by Mr Fiedler. Then, in fact, Mr. Holík. And then I have three applications so far, four applications with priority rights. If you'd agree, I'll have the Home Secretary perform after the de facto ones, because his performance, I suppose, will complement the Prime Minister's performance and you'll be able to respond to both of those speeches. Then there is the priority right of Ms Langšádlová, who represents the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, who communicated it to me in writing. Then President Fiala and then President Filip. These are the priority rights I've received so far. And now two minutes for colleague Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond immediately to the opening of the premiere that he presented here. You're here, Prime Minister, said you were really glad that this item was included in the agenda for this meeting. I can't believe you, Prime Minister, with the best of will. After the farce that you presented here at the extraordinary meeting, when you were hiding it in a way, and I admit that you peed on us as opposition, when you pulled out the voting cards, even though you were sitting here, Members of the Government Coalition, you reduced the quorum so that it could not be voted within the limit of 21 hours of the meeting continuing, so I really cannot trust your claim, Prime Minister. [[with emphasis]] I'm sorry. Don't be mad at me. As it was at that extraordinary meeting, which - among us I remind you - has not yet ended, has been interrupted, so here we have heard a lot of statements about the facts that took place, about how things were going. And I think that, for the most part, not only Members here in the House, but also citizens know. You use expressions like: Europe should act faster, Europe should act more effectively. At the summit, we agreed that protection of the external border should be ensured. These are all empty phrases behind which citizens do not see any concrete steps that they expect. I hope that there will finally be a change in the position of the government in this meeting and will be willing to answer the specific questions that we will put forward in the following discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Mr. Holík. And one more factual one - Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, during the parliamentary holidays, I visited three refugee camps. I'm not gonna tell you how many people there were, how happy they are or how unhappy they are. It's true they're not. But I want to draw attention to a far greater danger. There are about a thousand detainees in refugee camps. But according to Sunday's television, only 12,000 of them lie there in Munich, and they are very disillusioned because what the smugglers promised them - roast pigeons in their mouths, free apartments, cars, jobs that don't work very hard - it fell for their country. And there's a lot of tension between them. Just a spark. And let's remember, according to Europol's reports, there's at least one million trained soldiers among them. A spark really will do. And we all know that they have cell phones and that the uprising would fly avalanche across Europe. And given the relatively lukewarm appearance of our government, it can happen that in this country or in all of them, they will come to power and organize the right-wing forces that will seem more radical. And let's think about who came to power in Europe in 1933 under these conditions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u9	Mr Okamura, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say on behalf of our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement of the SPD that I am completely shocked by this government. [[Fun in the hall.]] First of all, you will reject the referendum - yes, the Members are laughing, the government coalition - when they rejected the citizens' referendum so that they themselves could vote in a referendum on who they want to live with in the future and no, that is, about immigrants, and then you want to silence the Members. You will tell the opposition Members that they are only allowed to perform twice and twice 10 minutes. This is unbelievable. So you shut people up first, and then you shut up the opposition MPs. According to Europol's data, which is the official body of the European Union, more than a few thousand fighters of the Islamic State have entered the territory of the European Union during immigration. Further after visiting these immigration camps in the territory of the Czech Republic to us, my fellow Members confirmed to me that there are common infectious diseases, I quote: Possible to suffer a disease. It's common. These people are released freely, as we know, when they are not identified, or when they fulfil the pseudoconditions of the European Union, they are released freely into the space of the Czech Republic. There is violence between them. There's been a feud. And we really want to discuss this issue where unidentified people are free to go into space. Half of them don't have any papers, every other day they say different information about what state they're from. Nobody knows who he is. [[15.20 hours]] And you're shutting us up like this. So we should be here about as a staff, and most of all, government, you have no mandate at all here just to decide for yourselves, because last year you were telling us who warned us about the problem, I've been pointing it out for a long time, you said, "They're xenophobs, they're racists, there's no immigration problem. You guys totally bailed instead of setting up the law. And now I'm listening to the Prime Minister here and all this nonsense that's suddenly being done, and of course it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u11	I now ask the Minister of the Interior and after him with priority rights, Mrs Langšádlová, President Fiala, President Filip and President Schwarzenberg. I just point out that, of course, the restrictions that we voted for do not apply to Members who have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has had a very well-founded and exhausting speech here about what the government is doing and what we are doing within Europe. I'd like to take a few refills and a couple of possible insertions from yesterday's meeting that I was involved in. Every week, you all get a report from the Ministry of the Interior on the development of migration. We take this topic very seriously and we want to equip you with a true information base on what is happening in the Czech Republic. I can hardly respond to some statements that spread on Facebook, type: There are 4,000 migrants across the side hill in the next village, in the territory of the Czech Republic. Well, it can't be there. We've arrested 2,600 people in the last three months. Unlike other countries, the Czech Republic is also holding migrants registered in an entry country. Unlike the Němec, the Rakušan are holding these migrants in our detention facilities. We try to return them to the surrounding countries, we return them and we are very effective in returning them mainly to Austria. The situation with Hungary has deteriorated and there is almost no return to Hungary today. He has not been returning to Greece - colleagues and colleagues - for four years! The European Commission has been debating Greece for five years. In the meantime, 430 miles were spent in Greece. EUR to strengthen the asylum system that does not exist. Italy doesn't have a working hotspot. There, let us look for the true causes of what is happening in Europe today. The Schengen area is failing, the old European countries are failing, and this needs to be corrected very quickly. In the last year, Maďar have been given a limit of 1.6 million to support protection. EUR. Greeks and Ital 160 miles. EUR. Europe must change its perspective. Even the Balkan road, Hungarian road is a problem. The Czech Republic draws attention to this. He's been pointing it out for a year. The result of yesterday's debate is that we are not ready to accept projects that are not viable. Mandatory quotas won't work. Let me get one number. After the debate with our Polish partners in the framework of return policy between Germany and Poland, German police officers informed Poland that they would return 3,200 people. Physically returned 180. For one simple reason. They'll register them, let them into the Federal Republic of Germany, and they'll never be able to catch them again. That means the return system won't work. Ninety-eight percent of all detainees, and all of them we ask, Syřan, Eritrejec, Afghánec, we ask: Do you want international protection in the Czech Republic? So only a small part, 70 people from Syria, said yes. Over two thousand said they didn't want to, and their target country in 98 percent is the Federal Republic of Germany. I did not really understand Mr de Maizièr's remarks, who was talking today about the possibility of reducing the euro funds. And I am very pleased that the Chancellor has set his words straight and said that threats in Europe have no place to reach consensus. I am very glad that it is clear that my colleague de Maizière has been hasty. You know, without protecting the external border, without a return policy, without moving Europe into that debate, we're not moving. We can send an army to our border every week. But without closing the holes on the outer border, that's pointless. We're ready for this. We immediately responded to the measures taken by Germany towards Austria. We immediately dispatched police officers to intercept any migration flows. I am very sorry that the European Commission has had this information since this morning and we have learned it from the media. We tell our German, Austrian, Hungarian, Slovak partners our intentions and actions to our police immediately. That is how true partners are supposed to behave, and I hope that this will change very quickly into cooperation with Germany, because the cooperation has worked perfectly without any problems until now. This is the first excess that I think is really an excess, that we will go back to the cool-headed negotiating table and start dealing with a system in Europe that will work. A system of mandatory quotas is nonsense. Nonsense. It can't work. These people don't want to be here, and we have no way of keeping them here. If we register them, we release them from our detention facility, their journey leads to the train and direction of Munich. Most say he wants to go to Germany not because there are higher social benefits, but because they have relatives, well-known, backgrounds and they go there targeted. They have an address, they have a contact person. It's not about social benefits in the first place. It's about them as well, but it's about number two. And we're definitely not going to go down the road to give them 150 euros a month. This economy simply doesn't have the power to do that. That this is a serious subject? It's a serious subject! And that's what I told my partners at the meeting yesterday. Seven and a half million are internal displaced persons in Syria. One and a half million in Turkish camps. Six hundred thousand in Jordan, one and a half million are internal displaced persons in Ukraine. We forget to address the topic of Ukraine, which is still here. And half of the people who apply for international protection in the Czech Republic are Ukrajinec. That means we have to solve the problem comprehensively. It's not just Italy, Greece, maybe Hungary. It could be Poland's problem. It may be a problem of the Czech Republic for the future. If Ukrajinec rise, up to 50,000 can head to the territory of the Czech Republic with us being the target country. Not a transit country. That's what we're preparing for. We're ready for that, too. Infections. Every migrant person, every migrant who comes into our facility, is examined. Thanks to the army, and here I'd like to thank my colleague Stropnický, although he's not here, we've strengthened by another X-ray in the past few days. We're prepping a mobile X-ray. Each of the clients of these devices is being investigated. That some have infectious diseases? Well, they do, that's why they're in detention! Would you like these people to walk freely in the Czech Republic? They're in the ward and they're being treated. They're in the ward and they're being treated. The set of diseases that are recorded in them does not so much deviate from the standards in the Czech Republic. And I refuse to comment on these alarm messages in any other way than that we opened the Ministry of the Interior's information line, where on the Home Ministry's website everything about migration, what is real, what is verifiable, true, has a chance to learn about journalists and citizens. We take this issue very seriously, but we must realise that we have given up entering Schengen on our own borders. Our border is today in the sea in Italy, Greece, our border is on the Serbian-Hungarian border. There we must draw our attention and the first thing we must do - we must force some old European countries to pull their heads out of the sand and stop dealing with the East and the West. We only want to apply common sense. And common sense tells us that mandatory quotas just can't work. That it's not a solution. That it's a pseudo-solving for something to be said. To be paper united. But it won't solve anything. That's why we didn't do it, and that's why, with the government's mandate, I got off there yesterday as I got off. Now I think there's a time when the Prime Minister's gonna stand up to this thing, that they're gonna cool their heads, and that real solutions have to be found. We're ready for them. But don't ask me to do some things that run on Facebook, and it's just nonsense. We can only face them by giving people accurate information, truth, and we will continue to do so. If she gets uncomfortable, we'll call her. We have our people in all kinds of places. In Turkey, Macedonia, Serbia, Jordan, Hungary, Slovakia, the ÚZSI operates everywhere, and our departments of the Ministry operate everywhere. We have information on the flows. For example, we said that before the 15th, a wave of arrival in Hungary would rise. Before the 15th, the 14th, 10,000 people. The biggest daily arrival of migrants. We've got the information, we're ready, and we're ready to deal with this stuff. [[15.30 hours]] Otherwise, my friends, 2,600 people in three and a half months. In three and a half months, 2,600 people. Hungary in one day 10,000! And everyone we've identified as an illegal migrant has been detained. The police are doing their best, and I'd like to thank the police in front of you, in front of the public. They're working to the max, and it's clear that an increase in the number of police officers is the way in the right direction. I'm ready for your questions. I'll answer as long as I have to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. I have here Mr Fiedler, if he insists on it. [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u14	I assure you, Mr President, I will not use two minutes. I would just like to say briefly that what was said here from the mouth of Minister Chovanec, yes, I accept that. The problem in the countries where it originated, the immigration wave grew for four years, five years. That's exactly what we at Dawn pointed to last year, we pointed to it in the spring, we pointed to it in May. You called us xenophobics, you said we were spreading alarm messages - and, hey, today we're dealing with what we've been pointing out in advance! As far as the current wave is concerned, I just want to point out that we have not yet managed to solve the problem of the inadaptable citizens that we have had here, and we want to address the problem further. Let's get a grip on ourselves in time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u15	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I thank Mr Fiedler for his point of view and now with priority rights for the TOP 09 and Mayor Helena Langšádlová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u16	Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, I would like to say that although we are an opposition party, we are a party to democratic and responsible, and in this difficult situation we support the position of the Czech Government, we support the steps it is taking. We very much appreciate the position of Prime Minister, but also of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs. There are situations where we are not to share on the right - the left, the coalition - the opposition, but we are to seek the common interest of the Czech Republic. And I believe that the issue of tackling the migration crisis is precisely such a question. I would also like to appreciate the fact that the Czech Government has developed a long-term migration strategy, because we are very intensively dealing with the current situation. It's a humanitarian disaster, we feel threatened, fear is spreading. But migration has not only a short-term dimension, it has a medium-term dimension, which concerns integration, education, employment, but also a long-term dimension, and this is particularly demographic. This is not only a challenge for the Czech Republic, but it is a great challenge for the whole of Europe. What's essential? In this situation, it is really essential that we respect the rules, commitments, laws - both we, the individual Member States and the entire EU, but also those who come. If we can do this, we have a long way to go. That's a crucial question. What is also important? We are talking here that the migration crisis is a crisis. It is the crisis that Europe is facing, and it is perhaps one of the biggest crises that we are facing. If there is a crisis, we must call it a crisis, we must realise that there is a threat and there is no point in sticking your head in the sand, and in such a situation priorities change. The moment we have to address this issue, we have to say that within the Czech Republic too, we need to change our priorities within the EU. Yes, consumer protection as one of the European agendas is important, the common agricultural policy is important, the organisation of various conferences - well, they are important, but is it really the most important thing we should do? Is the EU spending half a percent of its budget to deal with the migration crisis enough at the moment? Is it really time to build stork nests and golf courses? I think it is not that we are to say that this is a priority, and this must also be adapted to the budget - even to the European Union, because everything that is being talked about and talked about here will cost some money, but we must spend it if we are to cope with this crisis. And to handle it with dignity and not deny its own values. Yes, we're supposed to help. The Czech Republic is a rich country. Perhaps only now do some realize how rich a rich country is compared to the vast majority of Asia and all Africa countries. The Czech Republic is part of Europe and Europe is surrounded by dozens of extremely poor states, extremely unstable states. We are a rich country in the middle of Europe, and as the Minister of the Interior has said here, we are not in a critical situation and it is absolutely irresponsible to spread some hysteria and fears, but as part of the EU, as part of Europe, we must take this challenge extremely seriously. We have and we have to help, we have and we have to respect our commitments and international commitments to refugees. There is no doubt that we have to keep our commitments to all those who ask for international protection here, and it is true that we have to create conditions for helping refugees. Therefore, I would like to appreciate the fact that a working group has been established at the Office of the Government, which deals with integration, which also deals with integration in terms of the arrival of individual people in specific places. It is good that the Czech Government supports cooperation with both the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Regions, but also with churches, because we must not repeat the error of some Western countries that underestimated integration, and let us face it, where migrants simply live in ghettos, they are not integrated, they are not part of society. We must not repeat this mistake and we must not underestimate integration. That's an absolutely crucial thing. That is why it is extremely important that we prepare for this adoption, but we can prepare, and I believe we can do it. On the other hand, in terms of long-term settlement, long-term residence, we have the right to say that we want to settle in the long-term those who come from similar religious and cultural backgrounds and who are the most persecuted and vulnerable. I believe that we should talk about helping children, elderly people, at risk to families in particular, as a Europe. This is part of our solidarity, and we must never forget it. Yes, we are rich and we must help and we can accept even more people than we are told to accept quotas, but we must never forget to ensure security for our citizens, because one of the fundamental roles of the state is to ensure security. We mustn't forget that either. And what is happening around us in Europe, of course, nobody is happy about it. We are not pleased that cooperation between European states is not sufficiently coordinated, we have not been able to find a solution that is quick, although I know that there are many intentions and many steps that the EU is taking. About the steps. We are certainly in a situation where we cannot afford economic migrants in Europe. We can't! And yet we know that much of those who have come are economic migrants. Then, of course, it is absolutely necessary to invest in the return policy as well. Yeah, that's gonna cost something, too. But in a situation where we are to help refugees, we must insist consistently on return policy. And it is not possible for us to have managed economic migration as a solution to the labour market shortage and the refugee crisis. That's two absolutely crucial things. Although I am concerned that, for example, our neighbouring Germany, which has said that it needs 6.5 million workforces within a decade, maybe it also has a connection. A consistent return policy. That is why it is extremely important that hotspots are already at the borders to distinguish themselves, or to the extent possible to distinguish who really needs international protection and who is an economic migrant, because if a consistent return policy were, I believe that organized crime would also be very limited. By not having a consistent return policy for economic migrants, we simply supported organized crime because it was also based on those who did not come from countries where they are being persecuted. [[15.40 hours]] Organized crime has reached an unprecedented scale. It's not a gun business today, it's drugs, it's people. It's the worst thing that could have happened. And I think that we, as Evropan, have a great deal of guilt because we have seen it happen. I am convinced that one of the ways is a significant increase in punishment for those who deal with this horror and are in business. But once again, we have to look at the question: one person who made it to Europe through these networks paid 5 to 7,000 euros. That's a lot of money for colleagues who know their finances. How many came, how many hundreds of thousands came this way? Where's the money that organized crime got? What is financed out of this, and what will be financed out of it? These are very serious questions that threaten us in the future. Yes, the fight against organized crime. Border control, return policy includes setting safe countries. This is a big mistake that failed, because if we had a safe country, return policy would be significantly easier. But no doubt that includes military operations. Why isn't Europe doing something? Why doesn't she shoot those empty boats? Why does this support organized crime anyway? Well, one of the reasons is that Europe has been trying for many months in the Security Council to push for a military operation in the Mediterranean. And the fact is - and from many sources, it boycotts Russia as a permanent member of the Security Council. And we also need to know this information when we talk about migration. About the situation we got into. Even that's one of the factors. Maybe the situation would really be a little easier. We talk - ideas - send soldiers to the border, yes, we know who's coming, yes, it's a mistake that we don't even know the identification of those who are coming. They're tens of thousands of people we don't know who they are and they're moving in Europe. Yes, the states didn't follow the rules, it's been said here. But the illusion that someone will send NATO troops to the border, to those Greek islands, and that will save them, so I can assure you that is not the case. We're not gonna help each other if we start building boundaries. I think that Europe is supposed to deal strategically with Turkey. Europe simply in this situation - yes, there was an argument: we cannot deal with Libya when the mainstream went through Italy. But we can treat Turkey as an Alliance partner state. And we're supposed to invest in that migration wave to ease people's lives there in dignified conditions, because one of the causes of this eastern wave is that many are in those refugee camps - and it was said how many millions of people it is - they just feel hopeless, hopeless, they are in a desperate situation. That is why I must, in turn, appreciate as an opposition politician the position of our government that has long been, and it has been so right - let us help those people in places, let them live with dignity. Because the moment we don't do this, we're contributing to the situation that it is. And believe me, at this point, 25 million people are moving around. Some say more. We must look for really wise solutions and not be afraid because fear conceals reason. Wise solutions, strategic solutions, because without this, we will put the European Union at risk as such. And we all need to know that this solution will not be solved by individual states. That this is a situation that all European countries must face together. All European countries together, but on the other hand, do not close your eyes to the risks. There was a security conference 14 days ago, a coordinator of the European Union for Terrorism was here. Yes, let us admit and talk about the fact that part of the migratory community that came - Muslim - to Europe was radicalized. That's also true. Let's not close our eyes. But that must not mean that we will not be solidarity, it must not mean that we will deny our own values on which we stand as European civilizations. We must not let this happen. Finally, I would like to say: we must also not allow the European Community to break up, because we must realise that the migration crisis is not the unique crisis that we are facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u17	I thank Mrs Langšádlová, I will ask her because she was the first duly registered to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Thank you, Madame. The President of the Citizen's Democratic Party Petr Fiala is another party registered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior for speaking here, for introducing us to their position, to the position of the Czech Government, and I must say that, as far as the analytical part is concerned, of course, there are many things that can be agreed with. There are some attitudes that can certainly be accepted. I fully support the rejection of mandatory quotas and similar positions of the Czech Government, but I still feel that there are some specific steps missing, there are no clear positions of the Czech Republic, there is no assumption of further developments that the Czech Government should, must and should do. I am very glad that the Prime Minister is pleased that The Chamber of Deputies, as he said, put the debate on today's agenda on the migration crisis, but I point out that I would still prefer this to happen with the initiatives of the government coalition, not on the basis of opposition parties. I also think that this shows how the government has long approached the migration crisis and how long it has underestimated this situation. On a few examples that I will take from the Prime Minister's speech, I would like to show what the problem may be. The Prime Minister has repeatedly talked about the need for development aid, how it is necessary to help those people at the point of conflict, those countries, improve the conditions and that this will be the solution to the migration crisis. Well, I agree - but what does the Czech Republic do? It is the government's commitment to give 0.33% of gross domestic product to development aid this year. If I am correctly informed, this year, however, development aid will only reach 0.11% of gross domestic product. So is it a specific position, or is it just a claim that we should strengthen development aid, or is the Czech Government really prepared to do something for development aid? Are these empty phrases that sound here, or is there any willingness to do something real? And if it is, development aid needs to be increased. And ladies and gentlemen, if you look at what money is being spent on in the state budget, you know that we have no problem with development aid. And if the government wants to release them, we'll be happy to support them. Second example. The Prime Minister has said quite rightly here that European policy is failing to tell us in the second sentence: but we must look for pan-European solutions and we will address this again through European policy. Well, I don't think that's logical. If European policy fails, what is happening and what we see all around us is that states have begun to act according to their national interests, according to the interests of each of those states, and that is what the Czech Republic must respond to. So I don't really care what other nonsensical measures the European Union will take, but I am interested in what the Czech Republic will do, and I am also interested in what position the Czech Republic will take in those future EU negotiations and what options we have in the various possibilities of this development. I was pleased to hear that the government was going to strengthen or strengthen some monitoring of our southern border. But we are in a situation where Germany, Austria, Slovakia have begun to protect their borders, closing their borders, Hungary is declaring a state of emergency, and it is a measure - or a crisis situation for me to speak accurately - that measure of the Czech government seems weak to me. I would call on the Government to take urgent action to fully protect the southern border of the Czech Republic. In Austria, there may be tens of thousands of people in the next few hours who will try to get to Germany, where they can't get to, they can't even go back to Hungary. And what they logically do is - or what may happen - is that the refugee wave will spill into the Czech Republic, and the Czech Republic will become the only - or it will already become - the only passing country for refugees from Austria to Germany. [[15.50 hours]] Really, the Czech Republic is threatening to become involuntary for these immigrants - I agree completely with that too - involuntary target country. So what is the government waiting for? Why don't we protect our southern border consistently? Are we waiting for tens of thousands of people to stay here, even if they don't want to, to move uncontrolledly around our territory, or to try to reach Germany in the north? This is not the development that the Czech Republic should want. I have heard from the government repeatedly: we are not concerned with the migration crisis. That can't happen. Boundaries don't close. It turns out that one of those optimistic assumptions is falling after another. I don't want to play General after the battle, like some colleagues here do, it's pointless. However, since the beginning of this year we have warned about developments in Hungary, because the numbers of refugees have been growing dramatically in 2014. We are warning that some states can restore Schengen's internal borders and that we need to prepare for this, because those countries have already threatened this in recent months, and now they have. In this context, I am asking the Government for information on the means it wants to respond to this situation. What capacity he has at the detention centre and the accommodation of any refugees who come here. What capacity it has to strengthen security border and main transit routes. I'm also asking because I've heard the Prime Minister here say, well, the capacity in our facilities is even underused, we have enough. I don't know, I was at Brno's stop on Friday. There I met not journalists as government politicians, but also citizens, the mayor. I was there, among other things, at the invitation of the citizens who complained about the noise from the refugee facility. But please, for those citizens, there was no hatred of refugees. There was even a great deal of understanding that those refugees were there at the Stop. But the problem with this Stop is precisely the problem of insufficient capacity and poor preparation. The stop at Brno is a refugee facility which is intended for the reception of refugees who want to apply for political asylum here, which is completely different from the detention of refugees who want to go to Germany. And what's in the bus stop? A few dozen people who ask for political asylum, and many times as many, sometimes 200, now 180, next time 230 people who are being held there. That's not what this bus stop is meant for. It's a facility in the middle of town, and that's what's causing the trouble. So when I hear "we have sufficient capacity" - well if we have such sufficient capacity, it means that we do not protect the interests of Czech citizens at all and we do not care about what they think or about having good conditions for their lives, because the bus stop is not a suitable device for the detention of people who do not want to be detained in the Czech Republic, but who, of course, make up most of the people who come to us today. When the government here talks about finding pan-European solutions - I think it's not just inoperable. I would like to see some pan-European solutions actually adopted, but at this point, it seems to me more like buying time or some sort of alibis, because the European Union, Brusel, has not offered any solutions. And rightly the Czech government has revealed that mandatory quotas are no solution at all to the main problem for which we are facing the current migration wave. But what other European solution do we have on the table? None. And notice the most important thing. All those who have the full mouth of European interests, European integration, as everyone should respect it, here I mean Germany, so at the first critical moment they start defending their interests, the interests of their state, their national interests. And that's what's happening. There are no pan-European solutions on the table at the moment, no effective ones, but we can see how gradually individual states come to their national solutions. This is the result of this toothless weak European policy, which is able to manage things only in times of calm, smooth, administrative procedures and regulation, but it is not able to protect citizens effectively in the European Union when we are in any critical situation. By the way, what German politics is doing - and I am a great friend of Germany - is something that German political representatives are doing these days, something that makes sense to stand up and what a sovereign state like the Czech Republic must refuse. If we hear threats from Germany, political blackmail, if we don't do what Germany wants, so that they take our quotas - I'm sorry they don't take our quotas away, that would be nice - but if we don't accept our quotas, that our subsidies will be reduced at European level, that is something that is not only against the principles of European integration, which is also illegal, but what is totally but totally unacceptable. And it only reflects the cluelessness of German politics and its bad actions recently, when Germany, on the one hand, has invited all refugees from Syria to its territory, thus instigating the migration wave, and then does not know what to do with it and is trying to address it by forcing other countries to adopt mandatory quotas. Finally, by going to what is the protection of German interests, this is the introduction of the internal borders of the Schengen area. If Germany wants to undermine the last remnants of citizens' trust in the sense of European integration, that is exactly what these steps lead to. Let Germany continue in this style, but the Czech Government - and I hope the government will do this, and it will have our full support in it - the Czech Government must clearly reject it. But while we are on these issues of pan-European policy, mandatory quotas, which are even being enforced by extortion - what was said yesterday by the German minister, this is not the first blackmail from the great European countries on this issue. Speaking of these issues, I would like to ask the Government in this context to make it clear to us what the next procedure of the Czech Republic - not the European institutions, the Czech Republic - will be in negotiations in the European institutions. I understand that we are rejecting mandatory quotas, I agree with that, in which the government has our full support. But will the Czech Government therefore seek to discuss the issue of quotas at the level of government leaders? Will he strive to prevent veto law being exercised in this case? If not, if quotas are accepted, what will the Czech Government do? Are we going to accept them? Are we going to find a way to avoid them? The government should also make that clear. The government should also make it clear how many refugees we will have to accept, what we are ready for. And if we have to accept any refugees, from where and under what conditions, what will be the role of security forces in their selection. What form of international protection we provide them with. If they receive asylum, it is clear that many of them will also request a merger with family members, which leads us again to the question of the number of these people. What's the government's idea here? How are we ready for this? How will we anticipate the next steps that can be expected? I would expect all this from the Czech Government, and here, Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, Minister of Foreign Affairs, I also expect your answers. What I would also expect from the Czech Government is the answer to the question whether we need some regulation of Czech legislation in connection with the current immigration wave. I hope you have such an analysis at your disposal. I'm not asking at random. States around us regulate their laws so that they can cope better with the migration wave, whether in terms of security or humanitarian terms. And maybe we don't need to modify anything, but maybe we do. [[16.00 hours]] And I'm asking the Czech Government if they know which laws, how, if they're already presenting something here. Or do we just put our hands in our laps and say, "Everything's fine, we don't need to change anything?" I'd be surprised if the states around us have to make such a change. And speaking of changes to laws, it is nice to say: there has to be an increase in the fight against smuggling, transferring people, there is a need for the European Union to do something about this. Well, let's do something. And we want to do something about this. The citizens' Democratic Party specifically proposes that the Czech Republic increase the penalties for smuggling. In our criminal law, the punishments are about as high as when you're throwing gambles. From the point of view of what we see, what damage to lives, what disgustingness is associated with smuggling, it is appropriate to increase the punishments. This will have a deterrent effect and will be a concrete step in which the Czech Republic will contribute to the fight against smuggling and trafficking in human beings. But I shouldn't suggest that as the opposition party's chairman, that's what the government should be proposing here, and if he proposes it, he'll have our full support in it. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the government, I ask the coalition parties to stop dealing with smoking bans, register cash registers, reflex vests and all these socialist ideas, and they will start to deal with what is a real problem - and this is a migration crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u19	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Before I give the floor to my colleague, Vice-President Filip, Mr Zlatuška, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u20	I would only take the liberty of having two historical notes for my colleague Fiala's previous performance. For one thing, if, in the 48th year of the West, people started to act against smugglers and smugglers across the border in the West, so many refugees who, like those Syřan today, are saving their lives barely, then they were saving their lives from communism, so they would be returned and would not be encouraged to receive. And I would also like to remind you that, at the moment when we become bitter in this way, the situation that is today is not so dramatically different from what was after the Second World War, both in the postwar period and at the time of the start of communism. Back then, refugees from Czechoslovakia were one of the first to take special precautions in the world. President Truman has even performed twice in his report on the state of the Union with an appeal not to let people in Europe in refugee camps, but to receive them, and one of the first special quotas was negotiated for the Čechoslovák when they were admitted to the United States. It would be good to remind ourselves of these historical parallels in the general jealousy of how we treat refugees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. I had a bit of a hunch. His point of fact raised two factual points at the moment. Mr Stanjura, Mr Černoch, followed by Mr Stanjura, with the first factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I think we should use historical parallels extremely carefully. I am really tired of hearing the comparison of the current situation, the comparison with the situation in Europe. Are we talking about people coming from the same cultural background? Are we having fun? Do we know that these people will be willing to accept our culture, our history, our traditions and our customs? I don't think anyone knows. And I'm rather skeptical about it. Such a cheap historical analogy - it's the same thing that happened in the '48s or '68s... It's completely different. We're not talking about migrants from the surrounding states, from our neighbors. We're not having fun. Why do these people not walk and ask for asylum in Arab countries? In rich Arab countries that are culturally undoubtedly much closer to them than European countries? Bagatelization of the problem, like from the Prime Minister's mouth, who here hypocritically says, "I'm glad that point was included," as if the opposition were defending it, and the government wanted to enforce it here. Not once again, and we are in the middle of the parliamentary term, not once has the government come up with a point concerning foreign policy. It has always been a proposal for us, whether it was Ukraine, Crimea, migration. I agree that, in order for this to be on the agenda, government Members must contribute by including it. But the government hasn't come yet. And I'm supposed to trust the Prime Minister to like him. If he was happy, he'd put it through here, it'd be on the Organizing Committee, it'd be a government majority proposal, and not that we're arguing about it this morning at the Grémium, and then you're gonna meet us. And I'm glad you're here to meet us. So let's not lie to each other and leave the cheap historical ones - it's not true that the one who draws attention to danger is the bad one, and the one who says "we accept all" is the good one. It's not that simple. And it's not true. Let's think about what happened in Europe. As long as the South States had the problem, it didn't matter. When the problem moved from the south to Germany, it's settled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u23	I thank Mr Stanjur. Another point of fact is Mr Černoch, after whom Mr Schwarzenberg, Mr Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u24	I would add to this because I think that comparing 1948 and the people who helped others in the repression that was here, and in the people who really had the same culture, where it was something completely different, and comparing the organized gangs that are helping today, who are making huge money on it, and which your chairman, Mr. Zlatuška, also called an organized crime to fight against, so I don't know, I may have misunderstood your speech, but at that moment you legalized these gangs. That's why I'm asking if you think it's legal, if they're groups that are legal and that are actually helping and we're supposed to be applauding them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u25	I thank Mr Černoch and please address my fellow Members only through the President. Thank you. Mr Schwarzenberg, Mr Zlatuška, after whom Prime Minister Sobotka, has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that every generation is once subjected to a test where it proves its authority to work in politics or fails. It was in 1938 - 1939, it was in 1968. And we have a rather light test. There's no alien tanks, there's no SS or anything like that, just invasion, yes, many refugees. In my opinion, the later generation will judge us on how we behaved. If, according to the best traditions of our nation, Christians and humanists, we treat refugees the way they are and belong to a man in need who fights for his life, for himself and for his children and families, and thus prove himself, or listen to those who haunt us with half-truths, and those are the worst lies, haunting us with what will happen, haunting us, and unfortunately calling for hatred to do so. And the worst part is they're really pissed off. Previously - the oldest ones still remember - were angry with the Jews, then against those who were in the resistance against the communist regime, and now we are pissing against the immigrants, the refugees to us. [[Time warning]] That's how we're gonna be judged by what we're gonna do. We believe that we must resist lies and resist hatred, and therefore I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, the Minister of the Interior, for their position in recent days and weeks. They really defended the honor of our nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u27	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr President, your time is up. Another duly registered point of fact is Mr Zlatuška, followed by Prime Minister Sobotka, followed by Mr Okamura with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u28	I, Mr President, would just make a small comment on the cultural differences, as Mr Stanjura has drawn with them here. I would remind you that when the borders were opened after the 89th year, when our people came to Austria for example, the inscriptions "Čech don't steal here in stores" were evident proof of a complete cultural divide between them and us. Yet we have overcome it, and yet we have been able to join the common union. I think that the cultural differences, whether real or perceived, can be eliminated, and that even here in these challenges, it's more a matter for the area, for example. The Ministry of Education than the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. Now with a factual remark, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I believe that fear is a bad advisor. I think politicians should try to contribute to the resolution of the current migration crisis, not to arouse fear in people and not to appeal to the worst of what is in people. That's what I think is the role of politicians. I have noted here a dispute about whether or not I am glad that this point is included in the meeting today and that I was able to present my report. What I've already told the House is true. I'm glad I could deliver the report. I prepared it on the weekend in advance, gave it quite a lot of time, and no one could think that when the House meets after the parliamentary holidays in the midst of the most serious migration crisis facing Europe in at least the last ten fifteen years, that perhaps this item should not be included in the agenda and that perhaps legitimate Members should not want the Prime Minister to speak and inform them about what is going on. So I was counting on this point to be included, I prepared the Gros speech on the weekend, this morning I added the last parts concerning yesterday's meeting of the Interior Ministers, and I am glad that today the Chamber of Deputies dealt with this. And I would like to ask Mr Fiala, through Mr President, to do some soul-searching. It's not the government's fault that we didn't find any prepared capacity for the detention facilities. These capacities have been reduced to 30% in recent years. It is not the fault of this government that they are not filled and were not filled by the states of the army and the states of the police. These states have been reduced in recent years. Past governments acted very carefreely, as if nothing bad was really going to happen in the future. We were the ones who changed the security strategy last year before this crisis broke out. Last year, we started hiring police officers and soldiers to prepare for the deterioration of the security situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Okamura, Mr Fiedler, followed by Mr Chalupa, with factual remarks. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. It is not surprising to me that the government member of the ANO movement has mixed up Czech immigrants running away from the regime with immigrants of the Islamic religion. This is exactly in line with what this government is doing here, because it really compares Islamists, this hateful ideology, with Czech immigrants, you must be kidding. I would just remind you once again that the Islamic State has officially declared war on Europe, which means we are in a state of war with the Islamic State, and with the aim of declaring a caliphate in Europe as well. So I'd just like to remind you. I will remind you again, because you probably did not hear that Europol, an organisation under your beloved European Union, said that we already have several thousand fighters in the territory of the European Union from the Islamic State as part of the immigration wave. That means that you're making this situation less difficult, and last year, when we pointed out it, you were making it down and you weren't doing it, so it's probably not shocking, it's in line with the way your government is acting. Otherwise, I wanted to say that the vast majority of the immigrants who come here are Islamists. There are no Syrian refugees among them, I also checked in Vyšní Lhota and in Bělá pod Bezděz. On a direct question, the management confirmed it. They're professors of Islamic religion. And the last word I wanted to say about the comparison between Czech immigrants and Islamists that Islam does not go together with freedom and democracy. Either Islam or freedom and democracy. There's nothing in between. That means either one or the other. And now we're here before the important decision. Again, I say, you have rejected the proposal for a referendum of citizens so that they can decide on their future, and you have limited our time so that we cannot speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Mr Fiedler, Mr Chalupa, Mr Fiala, Mr Bělobrádek, Mr Lank, followed by another factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u34	I will just follow up on what Mr Okamura's previous speaker said because he said a number of what I wanted to say. But to the Member and President Schwarzenberg. I will haunt you through Mr President, Mr Member. You told us not to scare you, so I'll haunt you. Among those migrants, there are absolutely clear reports, basically evidence, there are fighters of the Islamic State. And the citizens of our Republic have legitimate concerns about this matter. I think Prime Minister Sobotka said a pretty horrible thing here a while ago when he said that haunting is causing the worst in people, in the citizens of our country. Prime Minister, are you saying that the concern of citizens, fathers, mothers, the safety of their families, the safety of their children is the worst thing in people? I call on you, Prime Minister, to apologize to the citizens of the Czech Republic for this statement. Last week, the chief of the Kurdish women's combat force was here fighting the Islamic State. We heard clear information in our MP club, where we heard it, that when they freed some territories, they recovered some objects, they found a database of people who are ready for suicide bombings, they found a database of people who are ready to infiltrate - and they're doing it - into migratory waves. They reach the territory of the Czech Republic, Europe. And here we see the great danger of underestimating the problem. Please, we're not scaring people, we're really worried about not doing any bad things in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Chalupa, Mr Fiala, Mr Bělobrádek, Mr Lank, Mr Zelienková, Mr Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u36	Good afternoon, thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, Government, fellow Members, I will follow up on what the Prime Minister has said here, what the role of our politicians is. The role of politicians is not to spread fear, but the role of politicians is to be vigilant and to bear in mind the main reason why we are here, and that is to ensure the security of our country's citizens, to ensure the security of our country. To do so, I appeal to all of you in the sense that the state budget will be discussed. Please pay particular attention to this issue when you are on the committees to address the expenses of the security forces, their training, their equipment. I understand that all resorts have their demands, but at this point, the threats are on the table, we need to prepare for them, we need to be vigilant. There was talk of a referendum. We have been elected as representatives of the people and we have a responsibility here. The referendum doesn't solve anything. We need to figure this out, the security of the citizens. And it's not just about immigration, there's a problem with cyber security and other things, it's just coming from all sides. I appeal to you as Members to pay really great attention to the issue of financing the security of this state, the security forces, their equipment and training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. With another point of fact, President Fiala, President Bělobrádek, followed by Mr Lank. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the debate started to develop about what the role of politicians is. I don't want to join her. But I would say that it is also the role of politicians not only to talk but also to do something. And that is exactly what I want from the Czech Government. Prime Minister, I'm used to the fact that if the government has any problem, it's the right-wing government's fault sometime before 2013. Okay, it's your figure of speech and Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš. I would just like to point out that in June 2013, when the last right-wing government fell, there was no such migration crisis. But to show you the emptiness of your words, let me remind you of a few of your numbers. I said one thing here. This is not a commitment of any government from the past. Government commitment - development aid 0.33%, facts 0.11%. The government's commitment - you set it up after you didn't agree with us - is 1.4 percent of GDP defense spending by 2020. You have economic growth, you don't know what to do with money, you give it to anyone. Look at the reality. Are we approaching 1.4 percent? No. It's 1.02 percent. Two hundred percent. And according to the outlook you have prepared, in 2018, we will reach 1.06 percent of GDP in defence. This is the real state of your goals. The goals you set yourself and what you do as a government. So don't tell us about the past, the lack of capacity, the reduction of defense spending in a completely different time, but notice what you've committed yourself to and what you're not able to do at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, your two minutes. After that, Mr Lank, Mrs Zelienková, Mr Filip, followed by Minister Zaorálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u40	Mr President, colleagues, I think it is wrong to talk here about two options - democracy and freedom, or Islam. I don't want Islamists here, I don't want Islamic terrorists here. I want to drink beer, I want to eat pork. I don't want anyone talking to me about this. I want Christmas trees in the squares. But that doesn't mean that the Muslim, the terrorist, the Muslim, the enemy. [[There's applause across the hall.]] It's an insult to these people. There are people from Islamic countries, there are Muslims who have joined, they have Czech citizenship. We have people here from Islamic countries too. Even democracy, parliamentary democracy - I do not know if the senator is a practicing Muslim, but he certainly came from an Islamic country and is in parliament. I think if anyone is mohamedan, let them run for parliament. That is simply the basic principle of freedom - not to distinguish people by religion, by gender, by race. I think that's a constitutional principle that we should maintain. What we have to do - to get those who come here to do this. [[with emphasis]] And if they don't, and if they don't comply with our constitutional principles, if they don't meet the fundamental values that we have, then they have to get hard to understand that either they respect them or they will be punished. I think it's quite obvious. That means, let's not make it out of this thing that's not there. It is also offensive to some of our fellow citizens and perhaps fellow Members of the House. I don't know if there are any Muslims sitting here. Maybe I do, and I don't care. They're citizens. We live in a civil secular state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Another duly registered point of fact is Mr Martin Lank. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. All I can do is respond to the Prime Minister's words, who accused us of frightening us in some way. No, we're not. We're just telling the facts and information. And the fact that, as a result, the facts and information are somehow creepy, that's just a fact. I'm afraid the Prime Minister has gone to the opposite extreme. After the meeting of the Bureau of the Security Council of the State, the Prime Minister said that the authorities did not have information from the intelligence services that someone was connected to the Islamic state among the refugees detained in the Czech Republic. In my opinion, he really tried to calm the situation and make it feel like nothing serious was happening. I followed the media output after the Security Council of the State with a logical interest, and I must admit that in the case of some media, I was wondering whether it was a way of informing intent or just gross ignorance. If it is said that the intelligence services currently do not have information that there are people with ties to the Islamic State among the refugees in the Czech Republic, it simply cannot be interpreted that there are no terrorists or people connected to the Islamic State, as the Prime Minister was assured by secret service agents. The sad truth is that no intelligence agency in the world is able to check out the entire refugee wave. People who pass through our Republic end up in refugee facilities and are subsequently released from them, we know virtually nothing in most cases. Not even if the name they gave was the real name. It's not much to verify in their country of origin. So if anyone claims that there are 100 percent trained fighters among immigrants in the Czech Republic, agents of the Islamic State, it's stupid misinformation. But if anyone claims that they are not 100 percent among them, it is, in my opinion, dangerous misinformation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, Mr Lank. With another factual remark by Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government, colleagues, I have applied properly for the debate, but I see that I would probably not be able to take my turn, so I have made a point of fact. I would like to draw Mr Okamura's attention first of all to the fact that if he is talking about some kind of war with the Islamic State, he should realise that the Islamic State is not a state and we should call it true names. It is a terrorist organization itself, and that is why we should treat it this way and approach it. Of course, I am aware of the seriousness of the current refugee situation in Europe and in the vicinity of Europe. The countries of the European Union, in the largest volumes of Germany and Sweden, expect the number of refugees to reach up to one million people in the European Union in 2015, which is about twice the annual average of the last two years. Those are the facts. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic responds to this by exploding xenophobia, fear and disinformation through our government policy. It's paradoxical because we've been away from refugee waves for many years. In 2014, we had a total of 1 156 asylum applications, and this year we have only less than a thousand. It's paradoxical because we are, for example. In 2001, more than 18,000 asylum applications were handled, we accepted in the 1990s and took good care of 3,500 refugees from the war in Bosnia and 1,000 refugees from the war in Kosovo. Most of them were Muslims, ladies and gentlemen. And it hasn't caused nearly as much hysteria as we see today. I believe that the real problem is not refugees, but the answers of politicians, which are unfortunately often populist and potentially very dangerous. We will all be surprised when the quartet Konvička, Okamura, Landa and Adam Bartoš get 15 or 20 percent of the votes in the next election due to our frivolity. It is also important that we are approaching Hungary through political culture by a mile, and our position is deteriorating significantly within the European Union and the Council of Europe. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I would then apply with one more point of fact, and I would suggest points that we should somehow discuss further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I have a proper application for a debate with priority rights, but given the way the debate is going, I have made a point of fact. I mean, I'm sorry about where the debate is going. Because it is not taken in a way that should correspond to what the Czech Republic is supposed to give as a mandate to the Prime Minister of the Czech Government at the European Council. I lived in good hope after the V4 meeting when at least a hint of solving the causes of the crisis was the contents of the Visegrad Group resolution. If we are talking only about the consequences of the crisis today, not about the causes, we will constantly face greater and greater consequences, greater problems, because we will not help the European Union finally to address the causes of the crisis. She can't deal with them herself. We therefore have an excellent chance at the United Nations General Assembly. I note that the basic condition for resolving any crisis is the elimination of its causes, and this applies both in social processes, in medicine and in law. And please, if we do not have the answers to this, and I have not heard them yet, but even in the speech of the Prime Minister, I believe that our purpose of leaving the Chamber of Deputies is that the Czech Government insists that the entire European Union as an international community should help address the causes of the crisis in those crumbling or crumbling states. That's the point of our discussion! Not some haunting or, excuse me, a completely stupid historical reminiscence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u47	I thank my fellow Vice-President. Mr. Lubomír Zaorálek, President Stanjura, is now making a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. Since I also have two minutes, ladies and gentlemen, it will be brief. But I would like to appreciate the last words that have been said here, because it seems to me that this is a certain shift compared to what has been said here by Mr Fiala of ODS, the President, who said that European solutions are failing, so we must probably turn to national ones. I cannot imagine how we would like to address at national level the causes of the crisis mentioned by Vice-President Fiala. If we have to turn to the causes of the crisis, we may not be able to do so as the Czech Republic either in Syria or in Iraq or anywhere. About the development aid we've been talking about. You know, it's not like we talk and do nothing. That 0.11% is last year, this year will be 0.17, which means 4.2 billion. We're moving to 6.5 billion. And we're moving on from some condition that we inherited. It's just not empty words when we say that there's been an eight-year drop in the defense budget. Those are not empty words when, in this House, we have complained many times in the past about the reduction of police status, and today there are 4,000 other police officers. It's just not that the government doesn't do it. And it's not that the past is indifferent. Just the state we inherited it from is the state we came out of. That is what I am based on in strengthening development aid. At the same time, the main point I would like to emphasise is that I am deeply convinced that the Czech Republic itself cannot handle the answers to this crisis. Look at the boundaries of what's going on in there. That's where the cars are today. Do you think the Czech Republic will prosper economically if these columns are there? Do you think we are able to defend our livelihood in this country if we cannot export in Europe? And manage in Europe? That's the condition of our standard of living. And if it's not, we'll go 40 percent down. I think that only in Europe does the Czech Republic have a chance as an economic entity, and this crisis has a solution only in Europe. If we could at least agree on this, we have a certain outcome of a debate which, I don't doubt, is very important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, Minister. Another, with a factual remark by Mr Stanjura, followed by Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u50	I feel like sometimes we say wishes here - good but pious. I would almost sign everything Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek said, but I have one question. How do we get rid of those who will not fulfill what we expect from them? Are we ready for this? Legitimately and humanly? Are we going to drive them to Austrian and Slovak borders? What if they don't want to take them? What are we gonna do with these people? That's what we say: we improve and tighten the return policy. The legitimate question is: how? And the Czech government should come up with that, and let it be arranged with our neighbors to make it the same. But why are we getting upset here? It was not the Czech Republic that first introduced the protection of the internal borders of Schengen. I was just pointing out the moment the problem was in the south. It was pretty quiet. The Greeks are in trouble. The Ital have been in trouble for a year. The years have been landing there. When the problem got to our neighbors, suddenly there's an escalating solution and we hear blackmail words like "either go to quotas or we don't give you money." But it's not worth the European money. That's what I'm saying. Let's not let this scare you. I think it's legitimate for us to ask questions. The government says we'll volunteer someone. I'd like to know the number. How much this year? And it's not gonna end this year. This is not the problem of 2015. How much next year? How much in two years? What are we gonna do about these people? Will they be full of users of our social system? Kids go to our schools? What's it gonna be? Those are legitimate questions. And do we need to change the law? I'm sure you are. If Denmark, so that we do not keep looking only at the former Eastern bloc, changes laws, reduces social benefits by 50 per cent for immigrants from day to day, they say that the first year will not be able to connect families and so on, and it is a Western country with a long democracy, and we pretend that nothing is needed, that we are ready for it. We ourselves have been able to integrate our minorities, that we say that we will integrate minorities from other cultures? How are we gonna handle this? It'd be nice. Who wouldn't want that? But that's just not true. And when the Vice Prime Minister says we're going to give people back, I ask, "How and to whom?" Who's gonna take them from us? These are not pieces of goods that we will be transporting across Europe! [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And hand them over at the border! One from west to east and sometimes back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u51	I thank Mr Stanjur. With another factual remark, Mr Černoch, Mr Okamura, followed by Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask my colleague Chalupa, who called here for unification, to protect the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. We've been doing this the whole time! What do we say all the time? Six months ago. To protect the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. Nothing more, nothing less. It's just that things could be predicted ahead, and not constantly waiting and constantly arguing, acting, a resolution coming out, then arguing again, then acting again. Nothing's happening to this day. Today, the situation across Europe is in such a situation where it is almost unsolvable. The moment Germany closes the border with us, these people will stay with us because they will have nowhere to go and no place to go. What are we gonna do when there's 20, 30, 40,000 immigrants here? And it's not about raising a party or anything like that. I really don't! It's just that common sense keeps things going for months, maybe years. And it's always going on and on and on and on and on. And at this point, if you look at the news from today, when Hungary has declared a state of crisis, when Serbia is calling an army, and nothing is happening with us. That is why we are asking questions and that is why we want answers to the specific questions we have. This is not the awakening of fear, it is only a real situation that needs to be addressed. And I think we agree on that, and it has been said several times here that the duty of every policy is primarily to defend the security of its own citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u53	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Mr Okamura, Mr Bendl, followed by Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really unpleasantly surprised again what the government MPs are saying here. On the one hand, they say that the Islamic State is a terrorist organization, which I have said for a long time, on the other hand, I have drawn attention to Europol's statistics that we have several thousand Islamic state fighters in the immigration wave. In July, you rejected the proposal of our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, to build Islamic Sharia and jihad law outside the law. You voted against it being outlawed! So I don't understand you, just the idle talk of this government! And we've got fans here, radical Islamists, already on the territory of Europe! [[16.40 hours]] Second thing. I have already called you here on behalf of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, repeatedly, over the long term, for several months to control the borders of the Czech Republic. You didn't do anything! Only when Germany does that will the government wake up, and when the Němec take the first step, our government is still reacting. That's crazy! We are not a sovereign country at all, if this government is here. And 200 police officers will be sent there, I'm warning you, they have to work on three shifts, i.e. We have a few dozen soldiers on the entire border. That's ridiculous what the government's doing. Moreover, I remind you that you here today rejected our proposal, our SPD movement, for a referendum by citizens on staying in the European Union, virtually. a speech so that citizens can decide their own future. That's not even a democracy you're doing here. And above all, let's deny your government's endless lie that it's a fugitive before the war. Or is there a war in Greece? Is there a war in Turkey? No. At the moment they run from Turkey and across Greece, they are pure economic immigrants, and I have absolutely no feelings for them. We have two million of our citizens on the border of poverty, a million Czech disabled, our seniors have eight to ten thousand common pensions, and they must come first for us. They are normal economic immigrants, whose aim is to make the most of money out of rich European countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for keeping time. With another point of fact, Mr Bendl, then Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, followed by Mr Hamáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u56	Hello, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief, because I have also been duly enrolled in the general debate, but unfortunately I see that the debate is underway. I would like to say the following to those who here appeal to the past. The Czech Republic had a very good immigration policy, it belongs, Prime Minister, or it was one of the ten safest countries in the world, we were not and we are not xenophobes. People of different religions came to the Czech Republic in the past and we were able to integrate these people into society so that it did not arouse any passion. But what is happening at Europe's level right now raises concern, I will not use the word fear, raises concern about how the European Union responds. And I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether it is true that the Czech Government adopted in July this year or in recent weeks or months a Convention on the participation of foreigners in public life at local level, because I have received such information, where the Czech Government has committed itself to allowing or granting foreigners who are not citizens of the Czech Republic to vote and to be elected to local authorities. Whether it is true or not. This is from the context of what is happening in Europe if the Czech Government has committed itself to the fact that foreigners can come to us and can run or be elected and have the right to vote in municipal elections, whether it is meant seriously or whether it is just some kind of media noise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u57	I thank Mr Bendl. Now with a point of fact, Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, after whom President Hamáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u58	Mr President, colleagues, let us say who fights the Islamic state the most. Who's that? No Muslims! The Muslims are the ones who fight the Islamic state the most. That's the first point. Second point. I wasn't talking about returning. I said that those who come here must simply be severely required to obey our laws, our rules. That's all I said. As far as return is concerned, some who do not receive the right to asylum are being returned. They are returned to Austria. It's not news, it's legislation that applies. Of course, the problem is that if Schengen was properly respected, and I think it's right that we're talking about this, they shouldn't even get here. I agree with that, it can't be a dispute. I don't think international law counts on such a mass exodus. That means if the numbers of people were one, two orders lower, it was something else. Of course, we're in a completely different situation right now. The situation isn't easy. We all want security for the citizens of the Czech Republic, but I think it would be good, and there are already contacts to essentially rethink the regulations within the UN and the European Parliament so that we can follow them so that they can be realistic about what is happening. It's clear we're not a hotel for the whole world, that's, I think, obvious. On the other hand, we can't say that people who are actually running away from wanting freedom who are running for freedom, and it doesn't matter if they're of any other cultural origin, it's important if they're coming here for liberal democracy, if they're coming here for freedom, if they're coming here for our legislation. And if you don't... Maybe, I'm sure most of them come here for economic reasons, there's no dispute about that. But please, let's not overreact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u59	Thank you to the Vice Prime Minister, Mr Jan Hamáček, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, the item is entitled Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on migration problems. Information from the government has been heard here, the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior have spoken here. I believe that in the current debate, all political parties have been able to speak and tell both us and the public their views on this issue, if any. his comments on the performance of either the Prime Minister or the Minister. I believe that the next milestone in this issue will be either an extraordinary summit of the premieres of the European Union or another meeting of the Council of Interior Ministers. It is probably clear what position the Czech Republic will take on these two events and what opinions it will hold there. Therefore, even in the context of the debate that we had on the Gremium when we decided whether to include this point or not, and already there we should not have negotiated this whole point today, I propose that we temporarily interrupt this point, either until the summit of the Presidents of the Governments of the European Union or until the next meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Interior of the European Union, whichever is the earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, President Hamáček. This is a procedural proposal that we will have to decide by vote. I have a request for all of you to be checked out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. There is a proposal to interrupt this point from President Hamáček until the summit of the premieres of the European Union States or the ministers of the interiors of the Member States of the European Union, whichever is earlier. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 12. 148 Members and Members are registered, for 105, against 30, and the proposal has been accepted, and I therefore interrupt item number 1 of today's meeting - Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on migration problems. I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the rapporteur. Before we proceed to discuss the draft laws passed by the Senate, I propose that, at the request of the President of the Senate, the House allow a speech to Mr. Senator Pavel Eybert in the Chamber of Deputies. Information about the Senate's amendments has been distributed to you by post, in your mail. I shall therefore vote on the possibility of Senator Pavel Eybert present. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the Senator's presence, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 13. 151 Members and Members are registered, for 137, against 1, and the proposal has been accepted, and I welcome Senator Pavel Eybert among us. Please sit at the newsstand. So we're going to be dealing with this point.
