ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse /house print 444/ - first reading I note five entries in the debate and, on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, I note that a proposal has been adopted that the debate of those who are enrolled will be held and the item will be interrupted by next Wednesday. I will therefore ask the first candidate, and that is Mr Herbert Pavera. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u2	Nice and pleasant morning, Mr President, dear colleagues. Allow me to present to you my findings and comments on bill No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse, which is mentioned in the press No. 444. The present proposal aims to address the shortcomings of the current wording of the Act on Market Power. According to the petitioner, these mainly consist in the inconclusiveness of certain provisions, in the inexplicability of more than 80 factual elements of the prohibited act, in the inaccurate definition of significant market power and in the uncertainty of imposing certain sanctions. All of this is intended to cause difficulties for the Office for the Protection of Competition in the conduct of administrative proceedings, as well as for the parties to these proceedings. I will remind you of the aim of the original law of 2009. I quote: Define the substance of the abuse of significant market power in relations in the field of the sale of agricultural and food products and create tools to assess and prevent these practices. The Law was thus intended to apply to cases of abuse of the significant market power of some competitors against others, where this market power allows them precisely to enforce themselves unilaterally more favourable conditions. It is argued that while the customer, particularly the business chain here, could choose from several suppliers, for suppliers often represented supply to a strong customer an existential issue. I have reservations about the proposal and comments which go to the explanatory report and, above all, to the assessment of the effects of regulation, so-called. RIA, specifically in the following points: The petitioner did not sufficiently deal with variant number 3, i.e. the possibility of repealing the law on significant market power. It states that according to the Authority's findings in administrative proceedings the pressure of the chain of commerce to reduce supply prices in the form of return bonuses and advertising prices remained unchanged. In principle, it recognises that the law does not help very much, but condemns the option of abolishing it without proper justification. There is no analysis of how the distribution of agricultural and food products has changed over the years since the adoption of the law. As far as I know, farmers themselves are trying to sell outside large business chains, whether in the form of, for example, farmers' markets or specialised stone shops. Quantification of these phenomena could change the view of whether this law is even necessary. Surprisingly, according to the petitioner, the overall development and change in food production do not indicate any negative effects of the existing law on significant market power. I felt that the reason for implementing or maintaining certain regulation was mainly its contribution, not the bare fact that it simply does not harm. It is further noted that a complete analysis has not been carried out by the Authority at present, which would contain quite specifically quantitative data on a regulated market. A comprehensive analysis of benefits and costs would require the involvement of other ministries and would be an extremely challenging project. This is considered only in connection with the preparation of the new law between 2015 and 2017. [[10.10 hours]] I consider it wrong that we should now change something that I do not know how it works and what it brings. At the same time, we don't know what the change will bring. It would therefore be appropriate to carry out the analysis under consideration first and only then to submit legislative amendments. In that analysis, which should be part of the RIA, it would be desirable to distinguish small, medium and large farmers as well as food businesses. Otherwise, you can't just say what the petitioner says without any data. In particular, for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, the abolition of regulation may have winding-up consequences. I also find it generally unfortunate that the petitioner's efforts to precise all practices of vendors and other aspects of customer-contracting relations. After all, it is not possible in a legal standard to affect all the conceivable phenomena that everyday practice brings, and they always respond to any regulation and are mostly ahead of it. I'm afraid that's how the petitioner gets on the never-ending path of new and new amendments, because regulation will be constantly around for example. only because disputes under this law have not yet been heard. As soon as that happens, there will probably be a need for further changes. Protection of competition in the field of customer-contracting relations of non-traditional competitors in the food sector is legally regulated in the Czech Republic by the said law on significant market power. Since 1 February 2010, the Office for the Protection of Competition has been responsible for monitoring compliance with it. The market power control agenda shall include an investigation into whether, in specific cases, there is no breach of the law, administrative proceedings, including the issuing of administrative decisions, and, where appropriate, the imposition of penalties for infringements of the law, the implementation of sectoral investigations, cooperation within the working group with the European Commission and other activities. In its activities, the Office for the Protection of Competition is based both on its own knowledge obtained from the sector investigation or from publicly available sources as well as on complaints received in the form of complaints. The competition authority cooperated with the European Commission on the creation of the Green Paper on unfair commercial practices between businesses in Europe in the food and non-food supply chain. In 2014, i.e. last year, but no administrative proceedings were initiated. However, four administrative procedures initiated in previous years have been conducted. One of which was terminated by issuing a decision and imposing a fine of 7, 144,000, which is irregular because the participant submitted a breakdown. Law No 395/2009 Sb., on the significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse, has in its name among others. significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products, but in § 1 para. 1 (a) This law provides information that it is a way of assessing and preventing the misuse of significant market power in connection with the purchase of foodstuffs for resale in the Czech Republic or services related to this purchase or sale of foodstuffs. The law does not address the possibility of buying out other agricultural products, e.g. the customer from Agrofert holding and does not really solve the dominant power of some suppliers. I have great doubts that the law on significant market power has somehow been able to help Czech and Moravian farmers. The submitters themselves are improbably admitting it. If he helped, it's probably just the big ones and mostly the food companies. Small and medium-sized people are looking for outlets outside the business chains. The growing popularity of farmers' markets, sales directly from farms or stone shops specialising in quality food, as I mentioned earlier, is indicative of this. I would consider the promotion of the sale of agricultural products directly to consumers as a more effective instrument of assistance. Here, a number of opportunities are opened where capable farmers can find their way even without the support of officials and politicians. However, speaking of support for agriculture, I would like to make an effort right here, and not in a dubious form of creating the further regulation, bureaucracy and administration that the present bill brings. My conclusion is clear: I propose that we return the draft amendment to the law on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products to the petitioner for revision according to these comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mrs Věra Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister, respectively. in this case, perhaps for the Prime Minister or for someone who knows the matter, why this amendment also does not regulate suppliers. After all, suppliers, according to market information, can be the abuser of their position. Therefore, the proposed solution seems very half-baked to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u5	Thank you. The next is Mrs Olga Havlová, Mr Laudát will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u6	Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, today we have a law on significant market power at first reading, and this law is poison for Czech small food professionals and concerns only consumers. The biggest chain of trade warns that the amendment will make food more expensive, disrupt the market environment, and lead to a reduction in the share of Czech food in shops. On the contrary, suppliers who benefit from this law and the government expect fair trading conditions to work and will no longer push the chain to sell below cost prices, pay for the customer to even place their food on the shelves, etc., which is common practice nowadays. I fear that the amendment to the law on significant market power is similar to that of the amendment to the Energy Act, because it did not pass the standard legislative process, the key passages of the law changed, changed until the words of suppliers and comments completely disappeared. The impact on consumers, customers, small suppliers and the state has not yet been calculated. The amendment can very hard hit our small Czech farmers and processors. According to the Association of Trade and Tourism, large chains will try to avoid the risk of unclear and winding-up sanctions that the amendment has set them up hard, and they will rather not buy from small Czech suppliers and look for goods abroad. The share of food from Czech products and suppliers is between 70 and 80 percent for large chains. Moreover, business chains export Czech products to their foreign branches in the amount of tens of billions of crowns, which are not negligible numbers, and which are not mentioned at all. It may be a plague for the Czech food industry, where in the finals only big suppliers, which are surprisingly not affected by the law, even though they also have significant market power and are in advantage and will have an even greater advantage - and the little ones will come to the drum. Therefore, I also propose that the amendment should return to the Government for completion, particularly on the impact study on small farmers and processors, which can easily destroy this failure, and I will also defend that this should also apply to suppliers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u7	Thank you, Madame. Next in line is Mr Laudát, I just don't see him anywhere. In that case, Mr Kučera is next in line. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u8	Thank you for the floor, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the amendment to this law. The law on significant market power was passed in 2009 as a parliamentary bill, however, the creator and for many years unsuccessfully enforcing such a law was I suspect the Food Chamber. The bill was presented repeatedly, failed several times. It didn't pass until 2009, although its quality was extremely low. The law itself is redundant. The misuse of significant market power is possible by the same authority, i.e. the Office for the Protection of Competition, within its standard competences. A significant market power collector is therefore an entity or group with a turnover greater than 5 billion. crowns a year. In my opinion, the UOHS itself assumed that the law would soon be abolished, so that until now the IOHS is proposing at least its legislative cleanup. There is no other way to call it - almost every paragraph of the law is replaced by a factually identical or similar paragraph, which is legally correctly formulated, e.g. supervision of the Authority instead of supervision, supplier instead of competitor, etc. One of the few substantive changes, however, important, is the new obligation of a customer with significant market power to enter into a contract in writing with the supplier. The amendment itself is therefore legally technically positive because it corrects the legislatively roughly formulated law. However, the amendment is very controversial. I think we all realize that we are in a situation where farmers' share of added value has fallen. It is reported here from 31 per cent to 24 per cent compared to the continued growth in profits of processors, wholesalers, retailers and entities outside the food chain. It is pointed out, and often correctly, to serious problems such as. abuse of decisive purchasing power, unfair contractual practices including late payments, unilateral changes in contractual terms, payments granted in advance for admission to negotiations, limited market access, lack of information on price formation and distribution of profitable margins within the food chain. I want to say that there is a very similar way of acting in the case of non-food goods. But what's the amendment to the law? It is without concept, obviously only responds to poorly structured and I would say the voluntarist lobbyist pressures, whether farmers, agricultural product processors or suppliers. We have all heard different concepts in recent years, but some improvement was expected in the unbearable situation of business chain suppliers. These are terms of economic dependence, purchasing power, significant market power, economic position, more favourable economic position. I'd like to say that we're not just talking about the significant market power of chains here. I would like to point out that, moreover, the amendment is discriminatory because it applies only to traders. However, it is clear that many suppliers also have significant market power. And here, of course, I am heading to the dominant position of Agrofert, owned by the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. I would like to draw attention here to a rather well-known case in 2012. I guess we'll all remember him. I'm going to quote here from the iDNES journal when it was not yet owned by the Finance Minister and the owner of Agrofert Andrej Babiš. So I quote from the iDNES journal of November 2, 2012 - quote: "The billionaire Andrej Babiš, who owns the empire Agrofert, has taken a hard turn on the chain of commerce. Their behavior to suppliers was likened to terrorism. Babiš responded to the recent decision of the Albert network, which stopped collecting pastries from domestic bakeries United Bakeries and Penam. The effect of strings is indeed on the level of terrorism. I'm sure you've watched that we've been flipped out, so they've stopped picking up goods in Ahold, from one day to the next. We stopped supplying 246 Aholda stores because we didn't agree on the price. 30 other bakeries replaced us, said Babiš." I continue to quote: "The Albert retail chain justified the change in the supplier of fresh bread by the growing popularity of regional bakery suppliers: 'Our customers have their favorite local bakers and we want to offer their products in our stores,' said the sales manager." End of quote. So what was it about? The chain of trade decided not to be blackmailed by Agrofert and, on the contrary, to support small local producers and suppliers. As it turned out, we all know - in this case, Agrofert won again. So this is where I ask who we approve the law for. For the protection of ordinary suppliers or for the protection of Andrej Babiš and his Agrofert Group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next in line is Mr Bendl and then Mr Laudát. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I spoke on this issue at the start of the first reading three or four weeks ago when we opened this matter. It will not allow me to repeat some things or opinions about this bill, because I was there when we had already discussed in the last parliamentary term whether there was any way to help small and medium-sized people, whether they could enter into a relationship between the manufacturer, supplier and seller in some legislative way. And we've almost always come across one thing -- there's always a way around it, but it's always at the expense of the little one or the middle one. Trying to turn the strings into the biggest crooks and criminals will lead to either leaving our market, which may be something someone wants because he wants to go to their place, after all, the previous speaker Kučera suggested it here, or he is simply looking for another way to essentially get an official or a politician to intervene in these relationships, which are exclusively, I will say, private. Often it's about price, often it's about quality. But we're trying to come up with a law to replace this. I think and believe that if we approve this law, it is against those small ones who are flexible and able to adapt to the market and can adapt often to what those chains want, because if you look at how people are buying and what they are buying today, then the number of butchers who sell in chains that are local is multiplying by the number of bakers - after all, United Bakeries may have left the market as the first Deputy Prime Minister then admitted that he left 46 places and got this space by small bakers etc. It's just that if we try to enter into these relationships, it's going to go against the small ones and the finals against the customer. I ask you very much to consider whether this law is necessary at all. Do we have more important things to do in the Chamber of Deputies than to find a way to help the United Bakeries?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u11	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Laudát. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Based on the club agreement - and already there are people jumping in, the agreement was that they would be allowed to initially sign up - I suggest that this point be interrupted by Wednesday. It's a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u13	Thank you. It is a procedural proposal, and I will put it to a vote without debate. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of interrupting this point by next Wednesday, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 177, registered 161 Members and Members, for proposal 79, against 6. I am of the opinion that the proposal has not been approved. [[10.30 hours]] In case... [[Noise in the hall. Members want to check the stetin.]] I see a reminder of the vote in progress, so I'm going to ask you for a moment of patience. [[Club presidents control the junk. No one wants to object.]] You have the floor, Madame. [[Ambassador Balaštíková: Hello.]] In case no one challenges the vote... Do you, sir? [[No.]] If no one questions the vote, we will continue this point and you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u14	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to answer individual colleagues who appeared before me to their questions. I would like to say in advance that I have never been an employee of Agrofert. I repeat this for the second time here, and I am actually negotiating with Agrofert's competitors, so I know what the rest of this republic wants in the area of significant market power. My colleague Pavera was bumping into him for a list of these practices. That didn't work out in many laws, because every time we give a list of what's not allowed, unfortunately, lawyers always find ways to circumvent the law and start doing what's not read there. So, unfortunately, by volunteering for the decision of the supervisory authority, we're interfering with the whole scope of what's going to be controlled. [[Huge noise in the hall.]] My colleague Pavera mentioned the popularity of farmers' markets. The really small regional manufacturers are not in chains. I told you last time. They don't really get there and they're not even able to meet their conditions. It is right that the popularity of small regional producers is growing, and it is intended for these farmers' markets, and perhaps this is the way we would force the chains to negotiate more, and in this local regional chain, to include these small regional producers here. I would like to say to Mrs Kovářová why they do not affect suppliers. Because, in fact, it was never registered from the supplier's area that there was any breach of significant market power. Colleagues Havlová says we're doing market regulation. If my colleague were interested, I visited the chains, I spoke to them, and yesterday I had a meeting with representatives of Kaufland to discuss how incorrect contracts for suppliers do, whether it is really business as our suppliers say. I talked to the bakers. I would also like my colleague Havlová to show more interest and not just read what anyone puts under her hand, because I am quite sorry that the representatives of the agricultural committee show such a small interest in finding out how the truth really stands. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room. Everyone's talking loudly.]] You're saying that the price of products will rise if we pass a law on significant market power. The law on significant market power repeals some of the possibilities of unfair practices. If prices go up, it's only because the chains have already said in advance how much they want to make in our country, and they don't want to leave this number, not because our suppliers won't participate in it completely anymore, because the law will allow our suppliers to breathe from the funds they get from selling their products, to invest again in production and to employ our people and not see supermarkets grow. From yesterday's meeting, Mr. Deputy Sales Director Kaufland himself said: There are too many of us here. And I want to ask, how come there's too many of them? Isn't it because the Czech Republic has become a gold mine for them? Because if they weren't making money here, they wouldn't be here. [[The MP is silent. Noise persists.]] As for the regulation, I'd say we don't really regulate the market. We're just legislative, legislative, regulating what doesn't work here. The fact that it was so few affected, or that the decision of the administrative court was such that the practices did not appear, is merely an example of the fact that the law was not perfect. That's why it needs to be adjusted. I told you last time that other countries deal with this. And it would be appropriate for us to talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u15	My colleague, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for some peace. If others want to discuss other points or other topics, or there has to be an agreement between the club presidents, they can certainly conclude it in the lobby and here respect the House of Deputies' resolution that we will finish the debate. I really beg all of you. Thank you. Go ahead, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u16	Colleague Havlová says she is afraid that Czech suppliers will be limited. I don't think so, because if they were limited, then the Czech suppliers didn't fight for it so much that the law on significant market power would move on. That's all from my place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u17	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Velebný, Mrs Havlová, and then the Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Prime Minister with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u18	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I just want to set something straight. It is not true that the Czech Republic is the only state in which there is regulation of supplier-customer relations. On the contrary, I think that we are among the states in which this is happening and compliance is controlled by public authorities. So just to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u19	Thank you. Now, Mrs Havlová, too, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would merely refer to what has been said here to my person, that I have little interest in this law, that I have apparently not spoken to anyone. I've talked to all the chain stores. I've also spoken to small customers. And I'm not gonna say who I talked to. However, I would also like to point out that this law was long overdue in the last parliamentary term of Public Affairs, and there we advocated not only for consumers but also for suppliers. And I insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u21	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister's speech. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u22	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I voted in favour of interrupting this point, but since the interruption has not yet taken place, I also allow myself to be involved in the debate on this bill. Let me respond at least to some of the things that have been said here in the discussion, and so I shall address the draft law that we are proposing, with the fact that I would then add my speech to the continuation of the meeting next week and also respond specifically to the questions, such as Mr Stanjura or some others that have been raised here today. Please consider this the first part of my speech on this bill. Of course, I'm ready to respond later next week. Ladies and gentlemen, the way in which this regulation has been incorporated into the legislation at all. The unbalanced relationship between the business chain and its suppliers is a problem that began to arise during the 1990s, especially after the arrival of multinational retail companies in the Czech Republic. 15 business chains have gradually entered the market in the Czech Republic and completely new practices and practices have started to emerge in relations between customers and their business partners, which have not yet been implemented in the Czech Republic. These practices gradually increased with the decline in small, independent stores and with the onset of major hypermarkets in particular after 2000. What happened? Late payment of invoices. Payments for inclusion in the list of suppliers. Payment for the business chain's birthday. Payment for promotions or for placing goods in a more favourable place in supermarket shelves. All these things have become common practice in the Czech retail trade of food and, unfortunately, they continue in many areas to this day. Suppliers do not have any means of defence against this negotiation. [[10.40 hours]] I must remind you that, at European level, this fact is repeatedly highlighted. While the chain usually has a choice of several suppliers of similar goods, for a number of food producers and distributors the contract with the trader is often an existential issue. And obtaining similar sales options is at least very difficult in hard competition. Following the very long discussions that were held, after many attempts made, in 2009, a parliamentary proposal aimed at adjusting unfair practices of chains was passed in the form of Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products. The law came into force on 1 February 2010. The significant market power is expected for competitors whose annual turnover exceeds CZK 5 billion, unless this presumption is refuted by market structure, market entry barriers, supplier's market share and customers' financial strength, size and location of their individual stores. I feel the need to emphasise this, because it is not really a question of turnover, but these factors, too, must be assessed. To date, a number of questions have been raised by the outgoing Members, until now the Office for the Protection of Competition in this area has conducted a sector investigation to become familiar with this new field of competence after 2010, and has initiated almost a dozen administrative procedures. However, in the application of the law in these proceedings, the Office for the Protection of Competition encountered interpretation difficulties relating to the basic concept of significant market power. He also met with considerable obstructions from the strings, which he naturally tries to drag through the entire proceedings, and that is why it may seem that if a common citizen looks at such a thing with his own eyes, all these proceedings are dragging and that the law is actually useless. From the administrative proceedings initiated by the ÚOHZ for possible infringement of the law, the two proceedings were finally terminated, namely the proceedings with Ahold and Kaufland. Furthermore, administrative proceedings are conducted with Tesco, Globus, Lidl, other administrative proceedings with Kaufland. However, these proceedings have not yet been terminated. Very often, the fact that this model is something special is mentioned here. It's not like that. It's not like that. Many other EU Member States have a similar form of regulation in their legal order. By now having this regulation, we are among the countries in which specific regulations through public law standards, whose compliance is controlled by public authorities, which decide on their infringement and the possible imposition of sanctions, have already been adopted in recent years. I would like to remind you that in this area of regulation there are countries such as Austria, such as Latvia, such as Finland, such as Hungary, such as the United Kingdom, such as Lithuania, such as Germany, France, Italy, Portugal, Spain. I would also like to remind you that, for example, a comparison of Hungarian, British and also Lithuanian legislation is being made in the 2013 Information Sheet of the Office for the Protection of Competition, which dealt with the issue of significant market power. This means that it is obvious that the Czech Republic is not a lonely island within the EU that would try to respond to unfair practices by customers, but that a large part of the EU Member States have responded to these practices in recent years. It is also good to note that the European Commission has recently focused its attention on the relations between suppliers and customers in the supply of goods for retail sale to final consumers. The reason for this increased interest is the fact that there is increasingly a situation where a stronger party, which is in the vast majority of cases a buyer, a business chain, submits to the other party, the supplier, a proposal for trading conditions which are unilaterally beneficial only for this business chain. The European Commission has conducted extensive investigations between all Member States in order to determine how trade relations between suppliers and customers are taking place. In order to find out what are the most common forms of pressure commercial chains on their suppliers. The Commission focused on relations between businesses in the area of trade in food and non-food goods. It has found that, in most cases, unequal relations occur precisely in the supply of food for retail sale to final consumers. At EU level, unfair trade practices in the food sector were first discussed in 2009. In 2010, an expert platform was established for contractual practices between businesses, which then published a set of principles and examples of honest practices in 2011 as well as cases of unfair practices in vertical relations within the food supply chain. The Green Paper on unfair commercial practices between businesses in Europe in the food supply chain as well as non-food goods clearly shows that not only in the Czech Republic, but also within the EU, the same problems are solved in supplier-customer relations in the supply of goods. The Green Paper also contains definitions and examples of unfair commercial practices, examples of possible impacts of these unfair commercial practices, and also focuses on the legal framework to combat these practices in individual Member States. In this context, I think it is also worth mentioning the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee, which is very strict and requires strict regulation of supplier-customer relations. Last, the issue of unfair commercial practices was also addressed in the European Parliament when the IMCO Committee held a workshop on unfair practices on 24 March this year, which once again showed how unfair customer practices are problematic across all EU countries, with a clear conclusion on the need to adopt regulation and enforce it consistently. I would therefore like to clearly reject the arguments that have emerged in the debate and that, firstly, there is no problem at all, and secondly, that the Czech Republic is dealing with this issue in isolation, that it is dealing with it itself, and that this is something that is unusual within the European Union. Many other EU countries also confirm that this is a real problem, and they are gradually adopting regulations that aim to correct unequal positions. Ladies and gentlemen, a few more comments on this proposal. Very often, one side of the supplier-customer relationship argues the need to create framework ethical codes, with both parties being very easy to follow. One of these initiatives promotes solutions based on ethical business standards by respecting good business practices and implementing an internal dispute resolution mechanism. The main players of these initiatives are the chains that support and promote them. The question, however, is how sustainable it is to resolve a dispute before an independent Ombudsman, set up by only one Party to a supplier-customer relationship. Moreover, practice in Europe has clearly shown that ethical codes can only work on the condition that compliance with them is badly enforced, such as in the UK. [[10.50 hours]] The law on significant market power currently causes, without a doubt, certain interpretation difficulties. It also raises some doubts about the conceptual nature, but it is subject to unprecedented pressure from the Association of Commercial and Tourism of the Czech Republic on its abolition. After a number of discussions on whether or not to completely abolish the law, whether to incorporate it into the competition protection law, which, however, does not fall under the principle of legal regulation, our government finally acceded to the amendment of the law, which was also actively involved by the Office for the Protection of Competition. The aim of this amendment, which we have tabled in the debate, is to achieve a regulation that will be more effective, easier to apply and will contribute to improving the business environment in the Czech Republic. I believe, honourable Members, that the proposal for significant market power put forward by the Government improves and improves the existing legislative regulation, and in my view it is in the interests of citizens, in the interests of consumers, in the interests of suppliers and consumers, in order for the Chamber of Deputies to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u23	Minister Jurečka is now registered with priority rights. He doesn't report, so in that case, my colleague František Laudát after the discussion has been exhausted. I presume he'll submit a procedural proposal. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. That's right. Since the agreement of the club presidents has worked, I would like to put forward a new procedural proposal, namely that we interrupt this point by 15.00 p.m. next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-22-ps2013-027-07-005-022.u25	Yeah, okay. I will, of course, have the procedural proposal voted. But first, I'm going to sign you off to find out the exact number in the House. I'm asking you to sign up with your ID cards. I'm gonna make sure that all those I've asked to bring the discussions to the lobby can return. Once the number of entries has settled, we will decide in the vote the serial number 178, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of the interruption until Wednesday within 15 hours. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 178, from 147 for 143 present. The motion was accepted. So I interrupt this item number 22, print 444, until Wednesday next week until 15 o'clock. Before we go any further, I'll make an apology. This is an apology from Mrs Zuzana Šánová from 10:30 to 14:00, and Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes from 10:15 to 11:00. The next item is the item
