ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u1	194. Report on the situation in the area of migration and integration of foreigners in the Czech Republic in 2014 /German press 562/ The Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec is on the scene, and the rapporteur of the Committee is on the spot. I will ask the Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec to report on the situation in the area of migration and integration of foreigners in the Czech Republic for 2014 according to the House's Press 562. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, on the issue of this report, on the issue of migration for 2014 let me have a short presentation report. This reference report was taken by the Government of the Czech Republic by its resolution No. 548 of 1 July noted. He's got an informative character. It describes the situation in the area of illegal and illegal migration as well as legal migration, international protection, integration of foreigners in the Czech Republic in 2014 compared to some profile indicators in the previous year or some other previous years, especially taking into account the compilation of an analysis of migration trends. At the same time, it provides information on legislative activities relating to the Act on the residence of foreigners, the Asylum Act, the Employment Act, which focused in particular on the transposition of certain new Union legislation. It is also necessary to include the processing of the draft new legislation to protect the state border of the Czech Republic. The report also focuses on the evaluation of Schengen cooperation, the area of visa policy, the issue of the implementation of readmission agreements and voluntary returns, foreign development assistance of the Czech Republic, which includes projects by the Ministry of Interior focusing on specific categories of foreigners. Further to humanitarian projects, migration projects. It also informs on the relocation of foreigners with proven Czech origin, i.e. countrymen living in Ukraine, that is the information provided in this report, that is de facto the transfer of our compatriots from areas in Ukraine where war operations took place. The fact in the report shows that the situation in the area of migration and integration of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic in 2014 - I stress - did not make significant changes compared to developments in previous and migratory security situations in the Czech Republic can be assessed as stable and satisfactory in view of 2014. On 31 December 2014, 451 923 foreigners were granted permanent residence in the Czech Republic. This is therefore an increase against the state to the previous year, namely 10 387 people. [[12.40 hours]] The foreigners thus account for more than 4 percent of the population of the Czech Republic. I would like to tell you here that the average number within the European Union is 4.1 percent of foreigners in individual Member States, and the Czech Republic is a country that is fully in Europe's trends. We are not a xenophobic country - 4 percent of the population compared to 4.1 percent that are in Europe today. The long-term trend recorded in relation to the foreign population is an interest in permanent settlement in the Czech Republic. As in the previous year, i.e. in 2013, we recorded a higher number of persons who are allowed permanent residence in the Czech Republic than persons who have a temporary stay. Although this is not the subject of the report, allow me now a few current data for this year. As of 30 September 2015, 461 880 foreigners were registered with permitted temporary or permanent residence in the Czech Republic. This is again an increase of 9 957 people compared to 2014. During illegal migration in the Czech Republic, 4,822 people were detained in 2014. Thus, there was an increase of 669 people compared to 2013. For this year, I have already said this year's issue here, it was the number 7,000 without the last quarter of this year. Foreigners were mainly provided for illegal residence in the Czech Republic, which is 96.2% of the total, which is related to illegal migration in the Czech Republic; 96,2 %, i.e. the vast majority, was provided precisely for reasons of illegal residence. This was the most ensured by the citizens of Ukraine, who were 1,000, the citizens of Kuwait 450, the citizens of Libya 406. We still are, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014. From the point of view of transit illegal migration, the Czech Republic has not been part of the main migration routes and is not even this year. I would also like to tell you how the Czech Government was or was not prepared for the migration crisis. I would like to tell you one number that there were 60 persons in the Czech Republic - 60 persons in 2014 on average in our detention facilities in 2014. There was a steep rise. This year, when we had more than 1,200 people in the short term, there was a dramatic steep increase. Today we are at 500 with the assumption that 40 people will be transported very soon, so we are at 450 people compared to the average of 60 in 2014. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u3	I thank the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanc and note that the resolution of the Security Committee has been delivered as House Press 562/1. I will therefore ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Zdeněk Bezecný, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ministers, colleagues, the Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies discussed this material at its 19th meeting held on 2 September 2015 and adopted the following resolution. The Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the introductory words of the First Deputy Minister of the Interior, doktor Jiří Nováček, after the report by the Committee rapporteur Jana Černochová and after the general and detailed debate, first notes Second, the report on the situation in the area of migration and integration of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic in 2014 instructs the President of the Security Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and, thirdly, instructs the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of this resolution. For the Committee's rapporteur is duly excused, so this task fell to me and I did what the committee had given me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u5	I thank Mr Zdeněk to the Bezecný for the news report. I am initiating a general debate, and I have Mr Tomio Okamura's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. And I would like to ask, here I see in the report under point II 2.3 on page 19 - you are mentioning the Employment Act with regard to migration. That, Minister, is what I warned you about in fact last spring, we met here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to ask you what you did in this regard or if you have plans to do something. The current situation is that when someone has a job vacancy somewhere, they first report it to the employment office and wait a month, I guess, if a Czech citizen applies to this job vacancy. And if he doesn't sign up, he can basically hire a foreigner, a foreign national who doesn't have a residence permit in the Czech Republic at that time. However, the problem I have pointed out, and this is a legal loophole, on the basis of which at least tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of foreign nationals have come into the Czech Republic and legalized their stays, is that the employer can enter into a computer or into the application such conditions that are not at all relevant for the given position and (b) does not actually enable the Czech citizen to be employed. We're seeing it at different curfews. We see this elsewhere, because they write in these terms, for example, that they ask applicants for a Vietnamese graduation, or they ask Vietnamese native spokesperson. At the same time, he is a salesman in a shop in the centre of Prague with souvenirs or a salesman in a curfew or perhaps even a waiter. This means that even though you are serving Czech clients, perhaps even some other ones, the law makes it possible today, it is a loophole that is widely used, and I have already pointed it out last year, so I want to ask you that basically the employers, these are the different foreign companies of those people who have stays here and what the companies here have legally, whether they are Arab companies, Russian companies, Vietnamese companies, Chinese companies, so they will put these for the Czech citizen, for the Czech unemployed citizen unrealistic conditions. The Lady of the Labor Office has no choice but to put it into the computer, so logically the Czech citizen cannot apply for the job, although the seller could, especially when selling to Czech citizens in the evening, so he should be able to mainly speak Czech not Vietnamese, and basically this is why foreign nationals are being recruited here, but in this case at the expense of job vacancies for Czech citizens. And there is, in fact, a similar system in parallel, where the Czech State is paying me unemployment support and various social support to Czech citizens, many of whom could easily do the job of a salesman, but in fact we are hiring foreign nationals here to free jobs that Czech citizens can perform. So I want to ask you, Minister, because it has been about a year and a half since we talked about it, so whether the government intends to do something in this regard, because this system is therefore very expensive for the Czech Republic, when we are simultaneously paying Czech citizens who could work, who want to work, but they are on social support, and so, in parallel with that, foreign nationals are being recruited here under some pseudoconditions, which are no longer necessary for this position from the logic of the matter at all, because for salesmen in the centre of Prague or in the evening you logically need mainly Czech, probably not native Vietnamese and so on. So if you're going to specify the law in this regard or in this regard what you're going to do. And I mention it in the sense that it's mentioned here in the report, because I already pointed it out last year, even the Minister here, that it has something to do with the issue of migration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u7	Thank you, Mr Tomio Okamur. The next one entered in the debate is Mrs Ivana Dobešová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the debate on migration has basically taken place at the last point, I would like to take the liberty of evaluating the 2014 report, which really concerns migration. I have studied in detail the data provided in this report, and clearly, although we can already talk about the migration wave at that time, this report shows that the most common asylum seekers in the Czech Republic were not Syrian refugees, but they were Ukrajinec. This means, I think that this corresponds exactly to what our Republic stands for, and that is: we must come from the geopolitical point of view of our Republic. That means we have to expect migration from the east. [[12.50 hours]] The conflict in Ukraine is still not over, and I think that our position to reject quotas, which only determine the number of refugees from Syria and North Africa, does not include refugees from Ukraine, and I think that the position of the Czech Republic is absolutely correct in this. What the report also states, or what is given in the past period, is that the Czech Republic is implementing a proactive policy of halting migration, which is investing a large number of funds in areas where refugees find their first place of salvation, namely in 2012 and 2014 it was 140 million. CZK and another 10 million were invested under the regional programme for the protection and development of the European Union. CZK to Jordan, Libya and Iraq. This programme included elements of the protection of refugees both economically and economically. I believe that the current position of the government on quotas imposed on us from Brussels is absolutely correct, because we do not, in fact, have much experience in integrating people who come from a completely different cultural environment. On the contrary, as the report shows, we have experience in integrating people from a related cultural environment, and I therefore believe that we should share our tasks in Europe and let Western countries integrate refugees from Syria because they have experience of this, and we should really focus on a potential wave of refugees from Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u9	Thank you, Mrs Ivana Dobešová. Allow me, before the debate continues, to load the apology that has come to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. He apologizes from 14.30 p.m. Mrs. Pavla Golasowská, from the afternoon meeting the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes and also apologizes from 12.40 to 14.30 p.m. Minister Daniel Herman. We are continuing the debate. Mr Karel Fiedler, who has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would follow up on what Mrs Dobešová said in front of me just a moment ago, and she very rightly pointed out here, in my opinion, that, when it comes to refugees, there is talk of quotas, so it is forgotten that the Czech Republic has accepted a large number of migrants from the region of Ukraine and from the eastern part, and it has been very well mentioned and it is a reminder. I would have asked the Minister if, during the negotiations which he attended in the European Parliament in Brussels, this issue is not only that the main migration wave currently in Syria, whether this is at all taken into account, whether these undisputable quotas are being taken into account, that we have actually adopted a large number of people here from Ukraine, who need to be said without problems or not without problems, but with minimal problems that it is not a problem for them to be involved in our society, if this is at all being discussed on the European Parliament's premises, that we are being imposed only on refugee quotas from Syria, and whether it is taken into account at all that we have adopted a significant proportion of people compared to, for example, states like France, Germany from Ukraine. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u11	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler for his time on the point of fact, and I ask who else to debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate. Yes, the Minister wants to answer the questions that have been raised in the debate. So the final word of Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall start from the end, by your means, to Mr Fiedler. We have received about 300 people from Ukraine as part of the system of arrival of our countrymen from the region of Ukraine, where they are fighting, so far, which is not a big number. Of course, we had this debate about the fact that migration waves may not only be from Syria, Libya, Africa, but also from Ukraine, where 1.5 million people are still internally displaced. We're having the debate. Europe is gradually beginning to understand that the Balkan route through Hungary is as important as the Italian and Greek route, which was not in the past either. I assume that we will also gradually come to the debate on Ukraine and possible migration waves from these parts of the world. Of course, I can speculate here, but I think that Poland's position as part of the vote on the arrival of another part of the migrants, the 120 000 people, was a little evoked by Poland's awareness that, in the event of the deterioration of the conflict in Ukraine, Poland would be the country to which most migrants from Ukraine are going to be heading, and of course there were debates that would then work those mandatory quotas, those standing quotas for any region from which migrants would come, whether Syria, Libya, other parts of Africa, or Ukraine. That, in its essence, is the vision of Europe in those constant quotas that it will solve problems where they occur. We say that other measures are needed. That's what I've been talking about, and I don't want to go back to it. On that question, to Mr Okamur, through Mr President. To me, it seems perfectly legitimate that someone wants to bring a Thai chef or an Indian chef as a specific profession, which means they're bringing that person from abroad. He is not in the territory of the Czech Republic, but he brings it from abroad. On the issue of curfews and others I agree with you that these people should learn primarily Czech. I think getting a trade certificate now means having a knowledge of the Czech language. And with those employees -- you know, I think if an employer hires an employee who doesn't know the language of his customers, he won't have a lot of them at the end of the day. Notabene the position, if occupied by a foreigner, is therefore posted for Czech citizens. You're contradicting the terms, let's say it's a Vietnamese graduation. I haven't met it yet. I'm gonna get to know the problem, and maybe I'm ready to discuss it with you. On the issue of Syria, cooperation with the UN and other organisations. We've been working together in the long run in Medevac. We have a doctor in Syria today, sending our aid to those countries, whether it's humanitarian or human. In Syria, teams of doctors worked very well and efficiently to help patients on site. So I guess that's all I can say for your questions. Thank you for your attention and for the debate on this report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u13	Thank you for the Minister's final words. I ask the rapporteur - he is not interested in the final word. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate, I have no application for it, and I will only ask the rapporteur to repeat the motion for a resolution. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u14	Thank you for the floor. Then we will vote on the resolution as amended: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic takes note of the Report on the Situation of Migration and Integration of Foreigners in the Czech Republic in 2014.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u15	Thank you. We will decide that in the vote order number 143. I checked you all out. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the motion for a resolution in the vote number 143, which I have just launched, and I ask who is in favour of taking note of this report. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 143 of the present 96 for 93, against no one. The motion was accepted. The motion for a resolution has been approved, I am ending item 194, and I will also adjourn the negotiations until 14.30 for oral questioning, because there is no chance for us to discuss the next item. Moreover, the Minister of Defence is duly excused from the meeting from half one, so it would not even be possible to discuss his points without the petitioner. So, have a good lunch and I look forward to meeting you at 14.30 during the oral patronage of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-005-194.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the next item on our agenda is:
