ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, repeals Act No. 266/2006 Coll., on employee accident insurance, and repealing or amending some other laws /house printing 376/ - second reading Point number nine, we return to second reading at our meeting. As I pointed out, this is a second reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Before I give her my word, I would ask my colleague Zavadil also to take the floor at the rapporteur's table as rapporteur for the Committee on Social Policy. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Members, I will take this very briefly. This bill was discussed in the Economic Committee, which recommended it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u3	I'll ask the House for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, on the left side, on the right side of the House, please remain calm. If you are discussing something else with some of your colleagues, including the members of the MPs, please discuss in the lobby. Thank you. You may proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u4	Thank you for the floor. So the Economic Committee recommended it to be approved without amendments. As regards the Social Policy Committee, he addressed the proposal in detail and recommended it for approval, as amended by several amendments. I will clearly take a positive view of these proposals as they have been discussed in advance and reflect the same position of the social partners. As far as these amendments are concerned, they concern extending the scope of the basic principles of employment relations, the lack of respect for which is a breach of public order, the principle of equal pay for employees, and the respect for the special status of trade unions and employers' organisations in employment as a group of their kind under the Civil Code, while recognising their right to reimbursement of the costs associated with their activities in the context of social dialogue. I thank both committees and believe that this proposal will also receive the support of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u5	I thank the Minister, and before we go any further, allow me to state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Between 10.00 and 14.30, Mr. Michal Kučera apologizes for the House's meetings for health reasons, for personal reasons from 14.30, Mr. Jiří Junek and from 12.00 to 12.30 for working reasons, Mr. Jaroslav Klaška and then from 14-45 to 17.00 for working reasons also Mr. Klaška. I will now state that on 11 February 2015, at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the press was ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy and the Economic Committee. In the transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure, it is stated that if, when examining the draft law, the Chamber of Deputies is not clear before the amendment to the Act on Rules of Procedure, which committee is a committee of guarantee, the guarantee committee shall designate the Chamber of Deputies. We must therefore vote on the guarantee committee. I therefore propose that we designate the Committee on Social Policy to the Committee on Guarantees. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I am opening the vote on order number 200 and I am asking who is the guarantee committee for the Social Policy Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 200, out of 162 present for 120, against no one, the proposal was adopted. I note that the resolution of the committees has been delivered to you as House prints 376/1, 2 and 3. I therefore ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil, take the floor first, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor. I will also ask for the preparation of my colleague, Mrs Putnová, who is the rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, esteemed participants for the government party. In my first-reading news report, I explained the entire material in detail, and I don't think I'm going to repeat it again. Otherwise, I would like to say that our Committee on Social Policy has discussed this proposal on 15 April and with all the proposals in the material. I'm not gonna comment. More or less, there was a clear recommendation that the Chamber of Deputies should agree with the Government's proposal for this law amending Act No. 262 etc. on accident insurance and repealing or amending other laws. As the Minister has already indicated here, it concerns several amendments to the social partners, it is all described there, and I think it is possible to comment on this within the framework of a debate that will certainly be launched now, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u7	I thank Mr Jaroslav Zavadil as rapporteur for the Committee on Social Policy and now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mrs Anna Putnová, to take the floor, to inform us about the negotiations of the Economic Committee and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u8	Good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Committee dealt with the printing of 376 at its 19th meeting on 18 March 2015. It recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve the House press 376 as amended by the Government Bill. This is an official resolution. Amendments have not been adopted. At the same time, I have announced that I will express my position in the debate that I am reporting to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u9	I thank the rapporteur and open the general debate at second reading. I have five applications for it, but I am registering the application with priority rights first for the rapporteur, Mrs Putnová, then for the President of the ODS and then for the application. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u10	Thank you. I, on the Economic Committee, respected the decisions of the members of the Economic Committee, who adopted this resolution by an overwhelming majority. At the same time, however, I also announced that I would convey to plenary my position on this law, because it caused considerable embarrassment on my part. I have divided that law into four areas where I would like to briefly introduce you to the reasons for my restraining position. The first part of the law concerns terminology changes and clarification of certain provisions of the Labour Code. It is necessary to express clear consent here. The second area concerns a substantive change in the Labour Code, e.g. Unification of the reason for the withdrawal of the commitment from work agreements outside the employment relationship, when the modification of labour agreements was absent. It is also possible to express your consent here. The other two points are problematic from my point of view, which is why I am saying this position. This is the transfer of part of the transitional provisions relating to accidents at work and occupational diseases to Part 11 of the Labour Code. For some changes, such as the envisaged valorisation of compensation for pain and social application according to the new § 271c para. 2 and compulsory valuation of compensation for loss of earnings after termination of incapacity for work and compensation for maintenance costs of survivors under the new § 271 para. 2, I must say that from my point of view in both cases valorization is possible even according to the current condition, even if it is a compensation for pain and difficulty in social application by decree of two ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Thermally, changes are certainly appropriate, but it is equally clear that both valorisations can be carried out on the basis of the existing law without any difficulty. [[Noise in the hall.]] The fourth area I would like to mention is the repeal of Act No. 266/2006 Coll., on employee accident insurance, and changes related. It is proposed to repeal this still ineffective accident insurance law. The abolition of the law is problematic without knowledge of what the new proposal will eventually be submitted by the government. In this situation, nothing prevents the workers' accident insurance law from being abolished, but at the same time it is not necessary. These are the main reasons why I will not support the amendment to this law in the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u11	Thank you, Mrs Anna Putnová, and I would ask my colleagues to pay attention to each performance, because they cancel those who have prepared for a rather serious subject of their speech. prosit, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u12	Thank you for the floor. I first comment on the recommendation of the Social Committee. The President was very restrained, and he said it so squeamishly, so let's think about what the left had put in there. The state budget under the law will pay social dialogue. For this year's budget, Sobotkův's government has released 40 miles. CZK, even from the General Treasury item, which is supposed to be a reserve for some emergency situations. I know it wasn't 40 million as it was in the bill, but less than 23 miles. released, but if the social dialogue is to be correct, i.e. hard, uncompromising, each defending their interests and looking for a common solution, that's hard to achieve when one of the three sides is true. I think that's normal. When someone hosts us, as a guest, you're quite polite and you don't tell him everything you feel bad about him because you respect that you're a guest and that host is hosting you for your money. And that's where the union and the left-wing government want to make it happen. That they put it in the budget, so be it. That's different every year. Every government can approach this differently. I think there's a zero right there. If three parties are interested in dialogue, let each pay for it itself - the government's expenses, trade unions, and employers' expenses. And it's not that all taxpayers are going to pay it, since the number of employees is far from equal to the number of unionists. Not even close. So we can't even say it's the money of all those who pay, for example. taxes on income from dependent activities. It's just a comment, we don't vote until third reading. No suggestion. Then I have one amendment. I have just submitted a document under the Rules of Procedure to the rapporteur. Then, in a detailed debate, I will refer to the number of the House document. It is another thing that, according to the Labour Code, trade unions do and, in my opinion, they do not have to do and do not. This concerns the safety and health test. Today, we have a central government body, whose headquarters are in my hometown of Opava, who is in charge of this. It has eight regional branches, inspectorates. In addition, which is the classic performance of the state administration, it is perfectly all right, in addition, in the current wording of the Labour Code, § 322 para. The costs incurred in carrying out safety and health control at work shall be borne by the State under agreement with the trade union organisation. So, like the left, unionists, they always say how the state power is privatized, and how bad it is when it's not all standing up, so when unions do it instead of the state, it's good and it's still worth it. I think, when the state has its organisation, a central government body based in Opava, I recall, with eight regional branches, there's no reason for anyone else to carry out this activity, no union or private company. This is a relatively simple amendment in two options. The first option cancels the whole paragraph and the second option cancels only paragraph 2. The 2 I quoted here. I believe that the Chairman of the Social Committee and the other members of the Guarantee Committee will support this, too, because I think that this justification is logical and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u13	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Now the rapporteur with priority rights wants to speak in the general debate, then Mr Karamazov with a proper application. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u14	I just want to say a few words through you to my colleague - he has already turned around - Stanjur. [[Member Stanjura stood facing the ODS benches.]] He didn't provoke me. He thinks he's gonna provoke me. But still a few words. First of all, I would like to say, with regard to the control and your amendment that you tabled, and it is OK, I have no problem with that. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court has already discussed this before and has recognised quite clearly that the control of the unions belongs. I'm going back to the Constitutional Court. Maybe you don't remember that remark, so I remind you. So that's one thing. Otherwise, of course, the check that was transferred in the Labour Code by Section 322 to trade unions, so there is not only a question of the money that is being placed there, but there are significantly higher costs for the whole control activity, so it would be very cheap to use that all money is being transferred to trade unions that carry out this control activity. They put at least four or five times more of their own resources into this. But that's just to the edge. With regard to the matter that appeared in the Labour Code and which is critically described by you. I don't mind. I just wish we could clear up some of the impressions and concepts. All the governments that ruled here were out loud and saying: social dialogue, yes, yeah, we're gonna support that. And as soon as it comes down to the money, we're gonna be on the brink right now. And here I would like to remind you of some of the things that have happened in Europe. With Juncker's mouth, Europe made it clear two months ago that European social dialogue would be strengthened, that it would be strengthened financially. And the appeal to national legislation was to do the same. You can find that out from the conference that took place two months ago. But, of course, we can say that we don't care that Europe doesn't care, that we don't care what it recommends, and we will go our way through the valley according to the white rocks. But of course we can do that. So I just want to point it out. And it's not just the union. I'm just a little irritated that there's always more accent on the union side and not the employer's side. I understand that's what it was said, but it's always been pushed by a trade union entity rather than the employer's. There's been a clear agreement between the two subjects and the government. I think it is a good thing that the government supports the social dialogue, not at the highest level, but also at the regional level, and that it costs a lot of money, that it's a lot of money. Finally, even by law - and watch out, here I want to turn against the union as many as it wants, but so far, the union represents all employees. That's still true. No one's changed that. When it doesn't apply, then you can talk about these reservations, and I won't argue with you so much. So now I'm gonna argue with you. So much for that. I don't think I'm gonna say anything about it yet, and then it finally decides to vote. I just wanted to explain some of these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u15	I thank the rapporteur for his speech. Mr Stanjura's point of order now. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u16	Thank you. To the rapporteur, by your means. Europe doesn't really talk to me with Juncker's mouth. I just don't accept the mouth of Junckerův, who speaks for Europe, there's no such thing. On that note of yours. I didn't say it was unconstitutional, that the unions actually carry out state administration. That's not what I said. I didn't even say I'd put it in the Constitutional Court or anything. I'm just saying it's pointless. Other times, when something, and rightly to me, is provided by private companies for the state, so very often trade unions and the left criticize it and talk about privatization of public power. And it's not here. About the note. It's such a theory that you represent all the employees. What about the businesses? You just forget about the little ones where the unions aren't! If we understand each other, you can't represent them. But I don't want to argue, and I don't want to change the law. I think it's useless. Just so we're clear. Employers and trade unions - employers and trade unions - should pay social dialogue from their own. It is nothing against social dialogue at all, but it seems to me that whoever pays for it is buying a bit of loyalty and favorable assessment of partners, because he is paying for it, and that doesn't seem right to me. That's what I'm talking about. And again, I say that the colleague and chairman of the Social Committee don't feel that I'm criticizing one side. Employers and unions, it applies to both sides. That's what I said in my first performance. I don't think the amount of 22 or 40 million a year is small for them to be sandwiches, etc. And Mr. Chairman and I spent a few hours here in tripartite, and I think it was just part of a normal dialogue between the government and the union. We were in a different position at the time, I fully respect that. And I say, if the government puts it in the state budget, I'm gonna protest it, but it's okay. But lawing it in the Code of Procedure is just wrong!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u17	Prime Minister, time is up. [[Thank you.]] Thank you. We can continue with the debate, and Mr Simeon Karamazov is signed in, and Mr David Kasal will be prepared in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues, the situation in which an employee is being transported for work by a passenger car is quite common. Parking places are often few and there is a struggle in the early morning, regardless of whether parking spaces are marked or unmarked, on the premises of the employer or anywhere else. The reason for this is not only the lack of free space, but also the restraint of employers who do not want to set up parking spaces for fear of any liability for damage caused to their employees' cars. Even with the greatest effort, employers cannot prevent a car from being intentionally damaged by a third party, for example. At the same time, current legislation and caselaw do not explicitly address this issue, so we can only assume where the employer's liability line lies. For this reason, I propose to supplement the existing wording in this sense that the employer is not obliged to compensate for the damage caused by the staff member on the means of transport at the time he parked it on the premises of the employer. There are two exceptions to this rule so that the employer's liability under another legislation, in particular the Civil Code, is not affected. Thus, the proposed change solves the pitfalls that many employers and employees face today and daily. The amended version of paragraph 265 will allow employers to set up parking lots and parking lots without being obliged to compensate for damage in situations where damage could not be avoided even with the best efforts. If employers make use of this option, the proposed change in the number of parking spaces should be reflected. It is thus based on practice without any of the parties concerned being burdened with disproportionate requirements. I therefore believe that you will support my amendment, which I will still sign up for in detail in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u19	I thank Mr Karamaz. Now, Mr David Kasal, Mr Leoš Heger will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, honourable Members and colleagues, Act No. 250/2014 Coll., on the amendment of laws relating to the adoption of the Civil Service Act, which has become effective 1. 1. 2015, in the Labour Code, the Institute of Contractual Salary was abolished. The amendment to the Labour Code applies to all employers who pay their employees not only to the employment offices. It turns out that such a flat-rate cancellation of the possibility of negotiating contractual salaries is inconsistent, since it also affects separate legal entities which do not fall under the regime of the Civil Service Act and state funds, some of which are also not service offices. The amendment therefore proposes the return of the possibility of negotiating contractual salaries to the Labour Code, but only to a limited extent applicable to state funds and contributory organisations, i.e. the employer referred to in Article 109 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; Article 4 (1) (a) (c) and (d) the Labour Code. The possibility of negotiating contractual salaries for the above-mentioned bodies for highly qualified staff in the 13th and higher grades will provide those employers with a higher degree of freedom in the negotiation of remuneration for work with a view to increasing the valuation and stabilization of exceptionally skilled employees and increasing the competitiveness of employers in the labour market in relation to the business sector. In view of the specific position and activities of the State Funds, it is therefore appropriate to renew the possibility of negotiating a contractual salary for these entities without distinction, i.e. even if they are covered by the Civil Service Act. In view of the wording of the general provisions on the remuneration of civil servants, I refer to the amendment of the Labour Code in Section 144 of the Civil Service Act. It is basically both the area of transport and the area of health. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u21	Thank you, Mr David Kasal. Mr Leoš Heger will now appear and prepare Mrs Nytrová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise a subject very similar to that presented by my colleague Kasal here, an amendment which has already been discussed in the Social Committee, which returns the possibility of implementing the contractual salary in the area of employers who operate medical facilities. This proposal has not been approved in the Social Committee, but I am still putting it to the vote in plenary. I would just like to say that, in essence, this is a proposal that is a subset of the proposals put forward by Mr Kasal, so in the event that he passes through his proposal, my amendment is already losing its meaning because it is being incorporated into it. By my proposed amendment has one other specific feature, he narrows the area into which he is implemented, not only to medical devices, but he also introduces insurance policies, in the sense that the contractual salary can be negotiated to a maximum of seven times the average wage in the national economy and to a maximum of 10 percent of the employees of the employer concerned. So much for the diction of the law or the proposal. [[11.40 hours]] Let me also make a brief comment on why the amendment is tabled. The Institute of Contractual Salaries has been extremely successful in health care establishments and has in no way been abused during the implementation. So the insurance policies that are put in there are far from being filled and it's just a kind of concern-to-be-preservation in order not to ever be abused. The application of the contract salary was really only large and in quotes from wealthy, well-run and prosperous hospitals, because these are the only institutes in the health sector that they have and deserve to pay, both on the management side of these hospitals, because the directors of roughly 20 contributory hospitals in the GSG manage the amounts of funding that reach between five and six billion a year for the largest bodies and relate to a few hundred top employees, especially doctors who are world-class experts. Many of them are de facto in research hospitals, such as IKEM. For these workers, this is a significant opportunity for employers to maintain them, because there is a huge interest in these top workers in the private market and, of course, there is an interest in them abroad. This is why I dare to make this proposal once more for plenary. I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u23	I thank Mr Leoš Heger. I now state, before the rapporteur's priority speech, Mr Karel Pražák's apologies received from 14.30 to 18.00 for work reasons and Mr Jiří Zlatuška's afternoon meeting for work reasons. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u24	Thank you again, Mr President. I would just like to make a few comments on two of my previous speakers, whether it was Mr Heger or Mr David Kasal. The Institute of Contractual Salary, which has been abolished, has not been abolished without being compensated. That's what I need to say. So the money that was provided for these people remains in the institutions. That's the first point. I don't know if it's appropriate to introduce it at all. I'm leaning towards the fact that I'm not, and I'll say why. Because then we would have to remove perhaps medical devices from Section 109, I suspect, and paragraph 3 of the Labour Code, where it is said that they are paid by salary, and therefore go into the remuneration of wages. Then, of course, any institution could negotiate wages as it would need and for which they would have funds. So we don't spill the tub and the baby. I understand that certain top experts in any institution, not only in the health sector, need to be rewarded better. But, first of all, we have the funds, and when I talked to some of the directors of the medical facility, they confirmed to me that the possibility is there, that the money is there. First of all. Secondly, it is possible to use different bonuses and other forms of remuneration to favour those who deserve it. But he may have -- and now I'm sorry, colleagues, I know it from the business sphere -- there's a little bit of a catch: it's laborious. It's harder because the manager really has to deal with all the people and distribute the funds according to what he sees fit. Maybe that's where the dog's buried, 'cause it's easier with the law. It's easier for us. So if I sum it up, the funds are there because the contractual salaries have not been canceled without compensation. That's an essential point. And the second point is that if we wanted to go this way, then I think it would be really worth it to set aside medical devices from Section 109 to abide by the Wage Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u25	Thank you. The presentation of the rapporteur has brought Mr Heger to a point of fact. I'm gonna ask my colleague Nytrová to wait. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u26	Thank you. I would like to make two comments on President Zavadil through Mr President. The remark that the money is there, maybe a little unwittingly adds up to the idea that the money is there in the state budget. They are there because the proposal concerns organisations that pay doctors not from the state budget. There is no state budget at all, but the contribution organizations mainly manage the resources of general health insurance, and the contribution is a completely marginal issue. The other - that's possible. I think empirical practice has shown that it can't be done. I assure you, once again, through Mr President, that the directors of the major institutions are very keen and are trying to give their top employees the money, but they simply cannot. They're not good at it, and those salaries have really fallen by up to 30% after the Institute's abolition. And I'm not talking about the smaller part of the directors that the ministry just cut the salaries by 40 percent, because it couldn't go any higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u27	I thank Mr Leoš Heger for his time. Now, then, Mrs Pavlína Nytrová. Mr. Miroslav Opálka will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u28	Thank you. Let me give you more information on my amendment. The draft law on the conditions for the registration of public utility status in a public register under the Civil Act, or Public utility status law, is contrary to the conclusions reached in the tripartite negotiations. The Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions therefore demanded that adjustments be made in a given law to ensure that the draft law fully respects the agreements between the representatives of the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions, the social partners of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Prime Minister, while complying with the obligations of the Czech Republic arising from the ratified Convention of the International Labour Organisation No. 87, on freedom of association and protection of the right to organise. In the present situation, the newly established trade union organisation must undergo three legal proceedings in order to carry out the activity for which it was established under standard tax conditions, for which it had not yet had to undergo any legal proceedings until the end of 2013, and for which only a relatively informal registration procedure was sufficient in the register kept by the Ministry of the Interior. It is clear that such an extensive agenda will not be able to handle the Czech courts with regard to the current extremely slow way of handling trade union records. It should be stressed that only legal persons who have a public register status will receive such favourable treatment as from the date of entry into force of the Act on Public Benefits during the preparation of this legislation, i.e. there is a serious risk that, due to the non-compliance with the tax regulation, all non-profit organisations and employers' organisations will lose their tax advantages to support their activities on the date of entry into force of the Public Benefits Act. In addition, this is an unnecessary procedure aimed, in consequence, at unacceptable interference with coalition freedom guaranteed by many international treaties which the Czech Republic ratified. At the meeting with the Prime Minister, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Marksová and Minister of Justice, Mr Pelikán, who took place on 14 May of this year, it was decided to add the provisions granting these organisations the status of public benefit to the amendment to the Labour Code beyond the proposed changes. I therefore tabled an amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u29	Thank you, Mrs Nytrová, for her performance. Mr Miroslav Opálka will now appear, Mrs Radka Maxová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, you can see when another law opens up in connection with one law, which will trigger the reaction immediately. I would return to the accident insurance law, for which this press was actually submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. I am concerned about what has already been discussed here in connection with the negotiations of the Economic Committee, and this is part 11, which repeals the Staff Accident Insurance Act. I understand that, after all these legislative interventions, this means restoring the situation associated with the Labour Code, the original law, which was discussed by the Government on the basis of the submission of Minister Škromach and subsequently Parliament of the Czech Republic, is not left, so for Minister Marksová, we have here a proposal that this law be abolished completely. A law that we have argued about for several years and has always shifted this efficiency, because it has been said not only that it is necessary, but that the European Union also wants to be sure that we have made some progress in this area. We haven't made any progress, but we always had an argument in hand - the law is, only it has delayed efficiency and the Czech Republic will deal with it in some way. I must say that during my visit, when I led the delegation of the Social Policy Committee at the end of the last parliamentary term in Geneva and we discussed the problem with the International Social Security Association, neither did they know what the situation in the Czech Republic really looked like, and it was obvious that they were not exactly informed by the Ministry. So I want to say that I have a problem with abolishing the law, that is, with part 11 of the draft, and that is because it is the only anchor that actually requires us when we have to solve the problem. And since we know that the law is no longer capable of realization, it is also the term when the Ministry is built, virtually. the government, before the task that it must submit a different solution by 2017. If we cancel the 11th part, we're actually gonna loosen up the term. If we look at the current situation, the Ministry has prepared a solution for the RIA government in which it evaluates individual alternatives and proposes a solution for the government. After that RIA will come only a substantive intention, after the substantive intention will come paragrafo the text, internal and external commentary procedure, settlement of comments and final version submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. If we consider that we are in mid-2015 and the law should apply according to the last delay of the law we want to abolish since 2017, we can see that time is very tense, and that if everything goes that way and part 11 is approved, we will actually get into a situation where neither the Ministry nor the government will be chased by a term. That's why I have a problem with part 11. But I also have a problem with RIA, which is ready for the government, for two reasons. One reason is that the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic number 353 of 20 is completely withheld in RIA. 6th last year, when Parliament asks the government how workers' accident insurance is to be dealt with. I know that this resolution is not binding, but I think that such material, which evaluates issues from different angles, should not conceal that the majority position of the Chamber of Deputies was as it was. So I ask myself, what is the weight of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies towards the government, towards the ministries, who actually controls the resolutions, how they are being treated, who evaluates them, whether it is really just a formal aspect or an act of the legislature. And the second problem I see is that the facts are hidden there, and that's the problems in fulfilling the compensation events of the current administrators, or the insurance companies, and the problems are not enough. We deal with them in our offices, we deal with them sometimes during interpelations, I turn to the State Labour Inspection Office. Even there, I think the Ministry would find a few examples. This is also one of the reasons to be mentioned in the RIA, because if it decides who will manage this, it clearly shows us in the current reality where it leads when even the insurance company does not respect the finding or order of the court. As briefly as I thought it was necessary to mention to this press, although I see it more as a technical amendment. I have no problem with the principles that are returned to the Labour Code. So I just have a problem with how the accident insurance situation will be dealt with in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u31	I thank Mr Miroslav Opálek. Now, Mrs Radka Maxová. The speech in the general debate is the last one so far. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to present here the amendments that I will then apply to, plus express my concern about the incorporation of social dialogue in the Labour Code for several reasons. In fact, the Government's resolution of 22 September 2014 gave some kind of green light, and our government agreed to support projects to promote social dialogue within the Council of Economic and Social Agreements and approved by the Government in 2015, up to 40 million. On this basis, of course, these projects have been published and will be supported. In the course of several negotiations involving relevant ministries and social partners, the question of securing a system tool was addressed to ensure the long-term provision of such support. The social partners have proposed that the possibility of providing funds from the State's social dialogue budget be regulated by law, namely the Labour Code. I do not think so because this is a fundamental systemic change, including social dialogue in the legal order of the Czech Republic. I therefore consider it necessary for these proposals to undergo a proper inter-ministerial reminder procedure. Projects that will be supported in 2015 by the social partners are pilot projects that will need to be evaluated and decided on what activities under the projects can be regarded as duplicated from the main activities of the social partners and what activities are above-standard to which funds intended to promote social dialogue can be used. Those projects must also be evaluated in terms of the effectiveness and purposefulness of the use of funds. The overall evaluation must clearly result in transparency in the use of these resources for the evaluation of individual projects and their contribution to the achieved standard of social dialogue. [[12.00 hours]] If the issue of social dialogue should be adapted, I do not agree that this should be a form of inclusion in the Labour Code. I think that this dialogue should be regulated perhaps by a special law, but, as I say, it should go through a classic inter-ministerial commentary procedure. The other thing is, if it's fixed this way in the Labour Code, whether the unions will be independent and decide the way they should be. That's one thing. The second point is that in my amendment to this Labour Code, my amendment has an amendment to Section 322 only because the law and practice need to be combined, where the State does not pay all the costs incurred by exercising control over safety and health at work, but only contributes to the reimbursement of costs. The proposed text eliminates the risk of a dispute between the State and the trade unions in applying the requirement to cover the costs of exercising control over the amount determined for that purpose in the relevant budget. Although the existing text envisages an agreement between the State and the trade union organisation, it does not imply that the State can also regulate the amount of remuneration, as is actually happening. The proposed text removes uncertainty about the content of the agreement and gives the relationship between participants a clear legal framework. The amended provision aims to clearly determine the nature of the relationship between the State and trade unions which control and protect health at work and eliminate legal uncertainty and risks arising from it. And the last thing concerning the effectiveness of Decree No. 125/1993 Coll., laying down the conditions and rates of statutory insurance of employer's liability for damage to work or occupational disease, as amended, was submitted for a transitional period of two to three years. However, it is still valid. The rate of increased premiums for late payment of the employer's statutory liability insurance for damage to an accident at work or occupational disease, § 12 para. 9 of the Decree, it has not been amended since then. The current penalty of 10 per cent of the amount due for each month started is disproportionately high and in many cases up to liquidation. The practice resulted in the need to implement the penalty rate and to align it with the social security insurance scheme under Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u33	I, too, thank the honourable Member and ask whether anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, I conclude the general debate and ask whether there is an interest in the final word, Madam Secretary. It's not like that. Neither does the rapporteur. I am now initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. First in line, please, and that is Mr Kasal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u34	Thank you, Madam President. In a detailed debate, I would like to sign up for my amendment under House document 2292. I have already said my reasons in the general debate, so I would not justify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u35	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Maxová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u36	Thank you, Madam President. I would therefore apply to the amendment under number 2288.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u37	Thank you. Please, Mr Karamazov, Mr Heger will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to sign up for my amendment under number 2355 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u39	Thank you. Mr Heger, please, Mrs Nytrová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u40	Thank you. I hereby formally declare Amendment No 2266. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u41	Thank you and please Mrs Nytrová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u42	I am signing up for my amendment, which is being held as House Document No 2357, which I have explained in detail in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u43	Thank you and I ask - in detail, Mr Stanjura is reporting to the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u44	Thank you for the floor. I want to sign up for my amendment under number 2398. I presented my reasons in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-009-009.u45	Yes, thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. It's not like that. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Now let's move on to the next point and that's
