ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u1	104. Information on the implementation of flood control measures in the Czech Republic in 2013 in the Gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture /German press 192/ This proposal will be presented by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the material is presented on the basis of Government resolution No. 496 of 10 May 2006 requiring the Minister of Agriculture to submit annually to the Chamber of Deputies Information on the implementation of flood measures in the Czech Republic for the previous calendar year in the Gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Agricultural Committee discussed the material submitted for its 9th meeting on 22 May 2014 and recommended that the Chamber of Deputies take note of it. The presented material contains information on the drawing of funds and the achieved parameters for construction actions for two of the most important programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture in flood prevention, namely programmes 129 120 - Support for prevention of floods II and 129 130 - Support for recovery, debauchery and reconstruction of ponds and water reservoir construction. It also provides information on the implementation of land modifications aimed at flood control measures. The main objective of the second phase of programme 129 120 - Supporting prevention against floods II is to further reduce threats and flood risks in flood areas, strengthen accumulation in valleys and increase capacity in intravilions. The programme was last amended by the documentation of the programme and the Government Resolution of 4 September 2013 following the June Flood 2013 extended by one year, i.e. until 2014. By the end of 2014, the programme envisages total subsidies of 11,17 billion. CZK including investors' own resources. The main objective of the programme 129 130, i.e. Support for the restoration, debauchery and reconstruction of ponds and the construction of water tanks, is to improve the technical condition of the pond fund of the Czech Republic and restore the water functions of ponds and water tanks in view of their importance in reducing extreme hydrological situations, floods and droughts. The programme was extended to 2015 by the second amendment to the programme documentation and extended to a new sub-programme designed to eliminate emergency situations and their consequences on ponds and water tanks. These programmes are appropriately supplemented with the implementation of land adjustments which partially assist with the preparation of constructions and investment measures according to approved plans for common equipment of land conversions. The selection of actions is carried out following the actions of individual water flow managers. The drawing of the programme is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is carried out satisfactorily and until the end of the programme it is expected to finance actions under individual programmes. The flood prevention measures implemented in the last ten years, especially in the first and second stages of the flood prevention programme, have fulfilled its purpose in the flood prevention programme 2013 with several exceptions and have contributed significantly to the elimination of flood damage in the protected area. The third stage for the period 2014 to 2020 is currently under way, the implementation of technical flood control measures in which retention support will be preferred, measures to manage river basins, cops, water reservoirs with retention areas and support in particular the missing measures in areas with potentially significant flood risk defined under the so-called flood directive. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you to accept this material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u3	Thank you, Minister. This House press has discussed the agricultural committee whose resolution has been delivered to you as House press 199/1. I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Josef Kott's agricultural committee to inform you of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u4	Hello, Mr President. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the information that the agricultural committee has submitted to the House Press No. 192 addressed its 9th meeting on 22 May 2014 and adopted this motion for a resolution in which it recommends the Chamber of Deputies to take note of the information on the implementation of flood measures in the Czech Republic for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u5	Thank you and the first Mr Petr Kudela will speak in the debate. Good noon already. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have become familiar with the 2013 report on flood control measures. At first glance, I was interested in the fact that the entire material is a showcase of spent money on how to transfer water to cities as quickly as possible, when measures are taken in cities to accelerate the drainage of the city's water so that the water in the cities doesn't do any damage. I miss more conceptual things about water retention in the landscape. The report only talks about these issues in the final parts, when there is talk about increasing the capacity of ponds and also of cops, with a sigh at the lack of mobilisation of funds in 2013. I welcome the information from the Minister of the Environment that he and the Minister of Agriculture will focus precisely on the issue of conservation and retention of water in the countryside. When we look at the historical maps of our country, we see a variety of lines depicting the diversity of owners. Owners' diversity was also a variety of grown crops in different stages of the diversity of growth phases. Landscape by intensive agriculture is losing the ability to retain water. Here we also reap the fruits of the melioration, the drying that has happened in past years. I recommend that the report be approved, but I also recommend that the Ministers of Agriculture and the Environment focus their attention precisely on water retention in the countryside, as the Minister of Agriculture spoke about it in the final stage of his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u7	I thank Mr Petr Kudel. Mr Petr Bendl will now take the floor and prepare Mr Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you for the report. I think it describes in detail the expenditure in an important area, which prevention of floods is undoubtedly. In 2007, several programmes were created that were triggered by the inactivity of the previous governments, before 2007, because what we experienced in 2002 and later in a number of cases during the floods showed the absolute lack of state capacity to deal with and be prepared for large floods. Thanks to this programme, which took place between 2007 and 2013 and in some parts it was extended until 2015, a number of very significant flood measures were really implemented, and therefore also the floods that we experienced a few years ago did not do such damage and the municipalities, cities, regions in cooperation with the state were able to cope much better than in previous years, at that time the major floods that we experienced at the time. The amount of CZK 11.7 billion is adequate, in my opinion, and it is necessary to continue in the spirit of what my previous speaker also said, not only in flood control measures, but programmes that were already in the system of support for flood control measures and related to the muddying of ponds, the flooding of dry tanks and the like, so that the water was in the landscape. I think this is something that the Czech Republic is supposed to devote itself to very significantly. We are discussing this on a relatively regular basis on the Committee on Agriculture and I register that perhaps there should be a will in the Chamber of Deputies to force the Ministry of Agriculture to come up with a serious programme to implement measures against drought so that we can maintain the financial pace that is there and, in the event that there are no more large projects for flood control measures, to maintain a financial basis for us to be able to pursue measures that will lead to the maintenance of water in the countryside, not only in huge ponds and their debauchery. I am thinking especially of these small ponds, rather watery areas, non-production ponds, which were once quite a lot in our cities and villages, unfortunately, they have grown, often muddy and inefficient, uneconomic for municipalities that have other concerns to invest in these things. That is why I think it is the duty of the state to take measures against drought and to help restore ponds. Today I also saw the reaction of the Minister of the Environment working on this in cooperation with the Minister of Agriculture. I hope that this will be soon, because the 2015 to 2020 financial year is basically already under way and the programmes should be ready and it should be clear whether in this area, i.e. promoting the maintenance of water in the landscape, the state is willing to do or not in the future, because in the past, this has already been the case. Some programs were created there, and there is something to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u9	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Now, Mr Pavera, Mr Zahradník will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u10	Nice and pleasant noon. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, dear colleagues, I would just like to begin by thanking everyone who has come dressed in blue today, because I think you know that today is the "Czech Lighting Blue" awareness campaign to raise awareness of children and people with autism, so thank you for coming and supporting this event. As far as flood measures are concerned, here I would like to thank, of course, for the fact that the State is really paying a lot of money to flood measures. I think that in the past the state has done a lot of damage by comparing the direction of rivers, streams, as it has also approached the rotational procedures in the fields, as various field paths have been plowed and ties have been broken. That's why we're talking about water capture in the country today. I think that, even in the future, money should be devoted not only to technical buildings and various measures that would hold water in the countryside, but also to how some slopes turn greener, how to return some field roads, how to make new ties, of course, and how to change some of the rotational practices on certain slopes, because even those are the reason that in lightning floods, municipalities and cities often have a lot of quality agricultural land in their homes and on their streets and roads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u11	I thank Mr Herbert Paver and ask my colleague Zahradník and my colleague Kučera to be patient. All right, Mr Zahradník, then colleague Pavel Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I am going back to what I mentioned here when I spoke about the report on the environment and when we agreed with Minister Brabc that something needs to be done on this matter. In the matter of trying to accumulate as much water as possible, which is produced on the territory of the Czech boiler. I'd split it into two parts. One conceptual part, which I think has a very good basis here from the time that the main water catchment area plan was discussed. I remind you that the main opponents of the adoption of this plan were, on the one hand, the mayors of the municipalities who did not like to see that they should be protected in their territories, not yet built up, but protected certain territories, and, on the other hand, environmental activists who had found an animal in each such territory, a creature who, according to their claims, lived there and who needs to be protected in such a way that this territory could not be included in the main river basin plan. [[12.10 hours]] The plan was therefore subject to a certain revision, it exists in the form of a generation of areas protected for the accumulation of water from 2011. This generator is very well processed and is available. I think we can lean on him and try to get him back in the game again. This is the big thing, the big concept - to define the territory of a larger extent, which could be flooded with water if there was an acute threat of water shortages, a dam was built, and water would be accumulated there. And the second thing - smaller measures concerning what my colleague Bendl mentioned, like ponds. The retention capacity may increase considerably by ditching the ponds. This brings a certain problem, however, because the ponds are in private hands, they are managed by various companies, and unfortunately, while other agricultural activities are heavily subsidized, there are little subsidies to the fishing sector. I would like to intercede for at least some plan to ditch ponds to direct money either from EU funds or, possibly, from the Czech Republic's budget so that pond owners can, with the support of these funds, ditch their ponds, thereby increasing the country's retention capacity. In my opinion, every cube that will be obtained in this way is good both in terms of protection against floods, but also in terms of protection against imminent drought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u13	Thank you. The President of the club Pavel Kováčik has now exercised his right of priority, and then Mr Michal Kučera is enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u14	Thank you for the floor. Since this is the subject here, and now I mean the topic of water retention in the landscape, not just the implementation of flood control measures, for a long time and many words have been said, I must say many good words, not only empty but even concrete. I hear here in the debate, as the report is positively acknowledged, the action is positively acknowledged, the implementation of the flood control measures, but I would like to make - nothing against it - a few remarks to my colleague Zahradník that we are caring as an agricultural committee or pushing it as an agricultural committee, so that the subsidies to liquefying the ponds come back after all. She used to be here, and then only the muddying of the fishing grounds was subsidized, and we believe that, especially after the experience with Rožmberk pond or the whole South Bohemian system from those catastrophic floods, it is precisely increasing the retention capacity of the ponds, which, in particular, by maintaining the entire capture capacity, means regular debugging, is perhaps one of the most effective flood measures in large floods. I agree that we need to take small measures, which are very effective in lightning floods. I agree with what is written in the report, and I would even say that the work of those who are working not only on the report needs to be appreciated, but above all, they have honestly worked off the flood prevention measures as planned, but unfortunately only as financed. And my appeal will be especially to those who are thinking not only of the immediate fact that now or recently there has been some trouble, it is necessary to say effectively and also to the public loudly that we have taken some measures and that it will not happen again, but we are like the Czech Republic on the roof of Europe, i.e. all water flows from us to other countries, so we are obliged to Europe and to ourselves, of course, mainly water that falls in the Czech Republic, protect and hold as long as possible on our territory. There are regions in the Czech Republic that already feel very strongly about the effects of climate change despite the opinions that there is no climate change. She exists. Go see Znojemsko, go see Břeclavsko or part of Břeclavsko and some other districts, go see some districts in Polabí, where they simply feel a tangible lack of water retention measures in the countryside, and where parts of the regions are therefore transformed into a semi-desert and desert. There is also a need to support certain agritechnical measures to avoid such a high need for water and, on the other hand, to support what has been said in recent years, to support animal production, because with animal production, with its possible further increase in arable land, permanent grassland will be restored, multiannual fodder plants that are very effective not only in improving soil quality, fertility, but also, above all, significant water retention, for example, in high lightning collisions, etc. So it's a total complex. And so my appeal is finally after this complex and incoherent explanation: I ask nicely, if there is anything really acute for our future, it is the release of enough money to make these measures - from building measures to agritechnická measures and I do not know what all of them - could do in time, could do well and could also do effectively to prevent any unnecessary constructions from beginning in the landscape, which have no meaning, as they will eventually prove, or are weak, inadequate, etc. And one last thing. You know, after the coup, there was quite a severe and possibly irreversible damage to the irrigation systems. I advocate that, where it is effective, efforts be directed, not only by funds, but also by project work and other work to restore them, of course at the level of today's knowledge, irrigation, so that the effectiveness of the measures is even better and even higher. Thank you for listening to me on this day in such a long speech, but please nicely, it is really very serious even for the future of our entire country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u15	I thank Mr Pavel Kováčik and now Mr Jan Zahradník, with a point of fact, will outrun Mr Kučera, although Mr Kučera has the right of priority, because there is not both the President and the first Vice-President of the TOP 09, but the factual remark of Mr Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just want to add one thing to what President Kováčik said. Of course, to implement these measures, as we have all mentioned here, a significant amount of money will be needed, but beware, it will also require a great deal of effort to enforce these measures, to obtain permission to build them up. Each of them will be strongly protested by environmental activists, and today they have a huge weapon in their hands in the form of a newly approved Environmental Impact Assessment Act. They'll be able to intervene whenever they can. So here I think, first of all, that we need to raise money, but first of all, aimfully, comprehensively and properly prepare plans to implement these measures so that we can face the resistance of environmentalists, who will certainly oppose it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u17	I thank Mr Zahradník. Now, then, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u18	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read with interest and then listened to the comment of Minister Jurečka on the information or report on the implementation of flood measures in the Czech Republic for 2013. I would like to point out here how the flood measures were already implemented under the authority of Minister Jurečka last year. As an example, I would mention the Ohře River basin. The retention capacity of the Nechranický dam has not been strengthened here. Nor has any other major flood prevention measures been implemented here, which Minister Jurečka here spoke of, or even considered. On the Ohře river, the active flood zone was only extended - for Minister Jurečka and the Ohře basin, of course. The update of the active flood zone was carried out by Minister Jurečka managed by the Ohře basin, despite the significant opposition of the affected towns of Louna, Postoloprta and other municipalities. The expansion of the active zone has a fundamental and negative impact on the legal rights of property owners in the territory concerned, the protection of ownership and the depreciation of the property of citizens and municipalities. The expansion of the active zone of the Ohře river does not take into account that there are other legal options for the implementation of flood control measures. In 2012, an inquiry was conducted by the Ombudsman's representative on flood areas. One of the conclusions of this report was that the existing methodology for establishing an active flood zone does not provide for a binding procedure for calculating the extent of the active zone. At the same time, it was stated that this methodology had to be updated. Yet the Ministry of the Environment, as a result of Povodí Ohře, joined the expansion of the active flood zone on the Ohře river, thereby limiting the local population. We, as Loun representatives last year, invited the director of the Povodí Ohře, where we wanted to explain the role of the waterworks Nechranice and its handling order in the floods that regularly affect the communities of the lower river Ohře, unfortunately without any results. I believe that this situation will be corrected by Minister Jurečka this year or next year, and that those restrictions which are very negatively perceived by citizens on the Ohře river will be abolished by changing the active flood zone and that they will proceed to proper flood protection, as Minister Jurečka described here in his report for 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u19	I thank Mr Michal Kučer, who was the last duly signed up for the general debate. I'm asking who's applying from the scene. I see no one, and the general debate is over. I'm asking if the Minister is interested in the final word. Yes, he does. The rapporteur? After that, too. Okay. Please, Minister, you have the final word on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a few comments on what has been said here. We are, of course, aware of all the shortcomings that have been gathering over the years and are giving further incentives to adjust the flood measures in the Czech Republic, and of course we are moving them into a lot of areas that our ministry manages. This means that these things have been reflected in the common agricultural policy and its setting, where much more emphasis is placed on good agrotechnical practices, good farming of agricultural land, greater emphasis on greening, the maintenance of permanent grasslands, etc. Within the framework of flood prevention measures of programme III, which is now set for the next five years, much more emphasis is placed on looking for measures that are close to nature, i.e. to make much more use of small tanks, cops, ponds in individual cadastrals, etc. The complaint that has been made here that, in the past period, at that stage II, which also covers 2013, emphasis has been placed only on flood control measures in urban agglomerations, the complaint cannot be accepted in this way, because it is necessary to look at the period overall. The report was for 2013 and logically some constructions related to the flood after 2012 were carried out and therefore the volume of these buildings was slightly larger there. We certainly don't forget the free landscape, the extraviles of the villages. The big problem today in the implementation of flood-related structures, and in the future it will be another big problem and a big possible, say, brake, is the issue of property settlement and access to land. This is not only a matter of line constructions in the ministry of transport, but also in the case of flood buildings, that simply two owners are able to block the entire implementation of the flood control measure. Today we are already considering whether to approach the debate on the issue of expropriation. Of course, there's a matter of dealing with drought, which has been mentioned here. We today, as the Environment Minister Richard Brabec said, are preparing together material that goes across the resorts so that we can really start taking concrete steps that may give us a chance to face drought in the future. Even the flood prevention measures that will now be implemented will aim, if technically possible, to fulfil the role not only of the flood control, but also of measures capable of increasing water retention in the countryside. On what Mr Kučera has said here, I would like to point out that the 2013 report has been submitted to Members, not for 2014. It will only come to the Chamber of Deputies when it is processed. Therefore, in this report, this is not a period that falls within the competence of Minister Jurečka. However, if active zones and criticism have been heard in relation to Ohra, then, of course, it is necessary to contact the competent ministry, which defines the definition of active zones, and this is the Ministry of the Environment. And as far as the flood control measures on Ohra are concerned, as far as I know from my general knowledge, for example, Terezín's flood protection was being completed in 2014. So it's not that nothing was done last year, it's more or less a year when one stage is ending and another one is starting this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u21	Thank you, Minister. Now, the rapporteur's final word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank all those on this issue, and I believe that all those who have something to do with this will hear Mr Kováčik's words that we will continue to address the situation in the framework of the flood prevention measures in the Czech Republic as best as possible and can be used as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u23	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I have no application for a detailed debate, so I will ask the rapporteur to present a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u24	Thank you. Allow me, Mr President, to make one more suggestion that the Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Information on the implementation of flood measures in the Czech Republic for 2013 in the Gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture, Parliament's Press 192. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-011-104.u25	Thank you. No one is reporting to the debate in detail, so I am ending the debate in detail. The final words may not be needed in this case after a detailed debate. We will therefore vote on the proposal. But I'm gonna check you out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the motion for a resolution in the 95 series vote that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution taking note of this report. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 95. From the present 130 to 130, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point 104. The next item is point number
