ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-13-ps2013-035-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the next day of the adjourned 35th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here today. I beg you all to sign up with ID cards and tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. Until now, they have asked the Members to issue a replacement card: Mr Tejc will vote with a replacement card No. 31, President Hamáček with replacement card No. 61, Mr Rykala with replacement card No. 6, Mr Okleštěk with replacement card No. 68 and Mr Kalousek with replacement card No. 69. I also say that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence from the negotiations: Adam Vojtěch from 12 o'clock for health reasons, Běhounek Jiří for reasons of foreign travel, Beznoska Adolf - foreign trip, Birke Jan - without reason, Böhnisch Robin - without reason, Černoch Marek - until 10.30 for health reasons, Černý Karel - health reasons, Farskýý Jan - work grounds, Fiala Petr - health reasons, Holík Jaroslav - work grounds, Horáček Václav - working Rostislav, Karamazov Simeon - personal reasons, Lobkowicz Jaroslav - health reasons, Luzar Leo - health reasons, Matušovská Květa - personal reasons, Mrs Marková, Mrs Marková for foreign travel, Pastuchová Jana - foreign trip, sedlář Martin - family reasons, Skalickýký Jiří - working grounds, Snopek Václav - personal reasons, Válková Wernerová Markéta - work trip - Seďa Antonín - foreign travelslav - working grounds - foreign route. From members of the government today apologize: Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka from 11.30 for work reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek for work reasons, Jiří Dienstbier for work reasons, Svatopluk Němeček for work reasons, Robert Pelikán for work reasons, Martin Stropnickýý for work reasons, Šlechtová Karla for work reasons, Dan Ťok within 11 hours for work reasons, Kateřina Valachová - foreign trip, Lubomír Zaorálek - working reasons. I'm going to ask you to sit in the bench and keep your voice down, because now we're going to deal with the items on the approved agenda. We will now proceed to discuss the point.
