ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-007-069.u1	69. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended /house print 501/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Environment Minister Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-007-069.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared a rather long speech that may even exceed the length of some of my unnamed colleagues' speeches. But since I'm in a considerable time frame, because if I'm not mistaken, at 12.55, we're going to continue at a firmly loaded point...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-007-069.u3	Yes, you're not wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-007-069.u4	So I am afraid that we will really only be able to negotiate this point, but we will not be able to complete it in the light of the debate that I am expecting. I would like to tell you that this is a bit of a historic moment, because in response to the long-term discussions concerning the legal regime of national parks, especially the National Park of Šumava, the Ministry of the Environment has prepared a proposal for an amendment to the Nature and Landscape Protection Act, which comprehensively amends the legislation of national parks, which is now, or has existed since the early 1990s, and adapts it to current factual and legal conditions. The proposal reflects more than 20 years of experience with the application of provisions relating to national parks and complies with international regulations in the national park care sector. A broad working group consisting of representatives of the Ministry and all national park administrations participated in the preparation of the bill and from the very beginning of the preparation the proposal was discussed with a wide professional and lay public. Indeed, they were hundreds of people with whom this law, or this amendment, was discussed, especially with the citizens, regions, scientific communities and NGOs concerned. In this respect, I consider the proposal to be the result of a very reasonable compromise, which ensures the protection of the natural environment of our most valuable territories, while respecting the legitimate interests of municipalities, regions and other entities. As far as the content of the bill is concerned, a uniform regulation of the rules for all national parks is proposed while maintaining the hierarchy and continuity of legislation. The proposed proposal clearly takes into account the links to the related legislation, such as forest law, water law, building law, hunting law against the existing legislation. The long-term objectives of protecting national parks and the mission of national parks are newly defined by law. The basic protection conditions, i.e. bans applicable to all national parks, are revised and simplified, with new distinction for the entire territory of the national park and for the territories outside the built-up areas and the pauseable areas of municipalities, which has not yet been and has led to some absurd situations. For example, the ban on the setting up of fires or the entry of motor vehicles off the road and local communications in intraviles, etc. A so-called institute is hereby established. a measure of a general nature as the most appropriate form for regulating activities in specific territories for a generally defined range of addressees. Measures of a general nature will be defined in quiet areas, nature conservation zones and will be reserved for trips and routes, camping sites or watercourses. Measures of a general nature which need to be agreed on territorial plans today, which are adopted in the context of a broad discussion with all entities and territories, in the territory of the objections of owners are then decided in administrative proceedings and the measure issued can also be challenged by a judicial action. The national park resonation is newly conceived in the draft law. Zones are divided according to the objectives of protection and care in relation to the current extent after changing ecosystems of human activities. Therefore, zones of nature, nature close to the zone of focused care for nature and zones of cultural landscape are newly introduced. Here I would like to stress that it is completely new and revolutionary to introduce so-called. a moratorium on ionization, that is, at least 15 years after the determination of the ionization, it will not be possible to make any changes within this ionation. For the necessary regulation of the movement of persons in the territory of the national park, quiet areas will be newly introduced, which will be defined in view of the real need to regulate the movement of persons where it is proven necessary to ensure the undisturbed development of ecosystems or their components, compared to the existing restriction, i.e. the area restrictions on entry into the entire territory of the first zone. Today's situation is that it is simply closed across the board in addition to marked paths of the first zone, often regardless of whether there is something to protect or not. Newly established quiet areas, which will have to be carefully drawn up in the context of precisely general measures, e.g. with municipalities, so it will be clearly necessary to prove that there really is something to protect - if I say it in public or lay. Moreover, it can only be protected or restricted in a certain period of the year. For example, nesting protected species of animals or flowering protected species of plants. The Visiting Order is newly conceived as a practical information document for visitors. Conceptual technical documents are newly introduced, so-called the principles of national park care. The role of municipalities in decision-making processes is strengthened. The municipalities will continue to be able to promote their interests in the national parks councils and will also be able to influence measures of a general nature from the position of the authorities concerned under the administrative order. They have not yet had that option. Larger areas of the park are open to gentle tourism. Allow me to conclude with a few comments. From the almost annual discussion of the proposal of this amendment and the debate with hundreds of people - I have now spent last week, Thursday, Friday again, as many weeks before in Sumava during discussions with municipalities, during discussions with citizens in public debates. I know what they're gonna say, I dare say, although we're not a psychic, I dare say I know what my colleagues are gonna say about this law. They will talk about the fact that the law does not bring stability to the Šumava National Park and that it would be necessary to make a special law for the Šumava National Park. I mean, it's just, in my opinion, and not just in my opinion, it's not true. The independent law on the Šumava National Park, as x has been tried in the last ten years and none of them has come out, the Senate proposal has not last come out, so I dare say that in many ways this amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act is more revolutionary. More revolutionary in stability and more revolutionary in opening national parks and, above all, Sumava's gentle tourism. It brings stability - stability from the point of view of ionization. And I also said, and I earned in the media immediately assault from NGOs that I closed a dirty handshake - well, I don't want to say dirty, I think there was a handl - with Mr. President Zeman and that I therefore sold my consent, or his opinion on this law, for promising that we would not expand without intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, this law does not in any way refer to any extension of the territory without intervention, i.e. how the territory should be expanded in the future, which should be left to the so-called natural development. I am very humble to natural processes, and I know that any decision we make will, of course, result in the fact that nature can recover from it for decades. I would like to make it very clear here that this law does not threaten Sumava in any way. I have heard and read a whole series of demagogics - forgive me the word - considering how, immediately after we accept this, 100 percent of the territory will be able to do a resting area, that immediately 50 percent will be able to expand without interference. We have made it clear and made it clear that for at least 15 years we do not want to expand the area without intervention and we want to leave the Šumava nature, but not just the Šumava nature, in any park, but in this case primarily Šumava, because what we are going to talk about goes primarily from the point of view of the principles of Šumava, we will let nature show what it does. In 2007, Orkán Kyrill came, of course, a huge intervention in Sumava, and we have the humility to leave nature now for 15 years on those non-stressing existing territories, which are approximately 23 percent, to show what he can do, how he will face climate change. Because the whole Czech Republic is drying up, not just Sumava. I hear Sumava's drying up because of the crust. It's nonsense, of course. I've got mine under me. Even the Research Institute of Water Management, I've talked to dozens of people about it, with hydrologists. [[12.40 hours]] Whoever read Karel Klostermann knows that earlier in Sumava attacked 4-5 meters of snow, today there are winters warm, dry, without snow, therefore the Sumava simply drys out. They're drying out the bogs. It kůrovcový does not contribute to the improvement of the condition, but it also does not contribute significantly to the deterioration of the condition. This means that this law, if this amendment is adopted, does not increase without intervention in any way. We clearly said that we would leave within the moratorium even in the case of a care plan, and of course we also have agreement with the management of the National Park administration that we would leave nature for at least 15 years - it may be more than 15 years in the final - to really show what it can do. After those 15 years, our followers will return to the situation, and sometime in 2032 they will probably first decide whether and what territory will eventually expand without interference. I would like to say that this proposal actually contains a number of elements that neither the Senate proposal had in it. In our opinion, it well combines nature conservation, which should be primary under the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act and, of course, national park legislation, while enabling municipalities to develop sustainablely, and of course also allowing tourists to learn more about the beautiful nature of Sumava Park and of course all national parks. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, because I know what the proposals are going to be, that is, a motion to reject, so that you can give this amendment a chance historically so that it can continue to be discussed in the committees. We are prepared to assess any proposal for modification, talk about it, take it into account, possibly argue. We are ready for amendments. I think we have a historical chance of stability on Sumava, and not only on it, to bring it, and it is because of this novel. Please give her a chance at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-007-069.u5	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Robin Böhnisch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-007-069.u6	Thank you for the floor. When I listened to the Minister, I was afraid he wouldn't be pathetic. But in the end, it worked out, and that's good, because it's a major change in the key standard for the whole resort, and that's definitely a bit of a pathos part of it. There's gonna be a lot of debate going on. At the moment, I am going to confine myself to the role of rapporteur, and I assume that after my speech, we will probably be forced to interrupt this debate anyway, and then I will come back with the details in the proper debate. Why is the pathos in place? It's already about 34. or 35., if not 36. amendment of Act No. 114/1992 Coll. The amendment did not always affect the core of the standard, the basic axis, sometimes it was an indirect amendment, but it shows the quality of the law that it has at present been in principle very complete and complex. They just wrote it in 1992 or before, I think, very well. From history I will recall one similarly important amendment, it was Law No. 218/2004 Coll., which we have just implemented into Act No. 114/1992 Coll. under the European directive on wild birds and the directive on the conservation of habitats of wild fauna and flora, you will remember it under the short name Natura 2000. The current long-awaited amendment affects the rules on the functioning of national parks. For now we have four: Krkonoše National Park, Šumava National Park, National Park Podyjí and finally Czech Switzerland National Park, which was the only one declared by law in 2000. The proposed bill defines, instead of the three four protection zones, the objectives of the protection and the permitted activities for each of them. The zones will be: natural, nature close, zone focused care of nature and zone cultural landscape. At the same time, this amendment sets out the conditions for the movement of visitors and is in this case more helpful than the original adaptation. So far, for example, in the first zones the entrance outside marked paths has been banned, the entry of tourists will be regulated by the definition of so-called. Quiet areas. This means that the most valuable territory will not need to be closed on a printed or permanent basis, but in principle only temporarily, if there is a reason for the closure of some very valuable area of the national park. Change is and will be the subject of discussion, I've already announced that. We can assume a debate on the exemption for preventive measures against fires in the most valuable parts of the park, on the application or non-application of forest law, on the possibility of revitalizing peatlands in the most valuable zones, etc. etc. I must say, the authors of the novel have done a great deal of work. Despite the partial comments that we are likely to continue to address in the Committee on the Environment, this standard represents a big step forward with regard to the care of national parks, but also with regard to openness to visitors or the coexistence of national parks with the municipalities concerned. I presume and intercede for the Committee on the Environment to be confirmed by the Guarantee Committee. In addition to the standard discussion within the committee, we assume that we will also deal with this standard in the subcommittee on conservation of nature and landscape, that we will do the whole series of round tables as we have done in the past. At the moment, I would like to thank you for your attention, and when we get back to the general debate, I hope it will be soon, I will join it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-007-069.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am now opening a general debate to which Mr Zahradník, Mrs Nohavová, Mr Šidlo, Mr Junek, Mr Jakubčík, Mr Votava and Mr Zemek have signed up. I now ask that the words be taken first, and this is Mr Zahradník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-007-069.u8	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have been careful to be the first to enter the debate because I have appeared to Sumava many times or more in the two years I have been here in the House. I have always acted as a supporter of the fact that, in addition to the wild nature, in addition to the so-called wilderness, apart from the 100% influence of environmental activists, man, citizen, population of the Šumava communities and that there should also be properly elected representatives of the Šumava self-government and self-government superior, i.e. regional self-government. The minister described the genesis of the law. He basically and rightly said that it was created because it was not possible to enforce an independent law on the National Park of Šumava. The Šumava National Park is set up by government regulations. It happened in 1991. This government regulation would work well, the national park could be very well managed in the past if the government were to deal with the situation in Sumava in its negotiations as a government, as a whole, where it could be given a chance to apply its views not only to the environmental ministers of the time, but also to ministers of other ministries - local development, agriculture, but also to foreign affairs, because the overlap in the Šumava National Park to neighbouring countries is very clear. I must say that it has never happened, however, that in fact Sumava has always become the protector of the minister who had the environment in his ministry, whether it were the ministers of Ambrozek or Bursík, who, in my opinion, most negatively entered into the situation in Šumava. That is why Šumava's opinion was born that it was necessary to have an independent law according to which the Šumava National Park would be managed. [[12.50 hours]] The regions, especially the Pilsen Region, tried to do so, then these materials, which never actually got to the House, seized the Senate and presented them in the form of a Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava. This Senate proposal, which had great support from the Šumava municipalities, which had great support from the regions and for which more than 50 voted in the Senate, I think 54 of the 57 Senators present in the meeting at the time, had huge support from their petitioner. On the contrary, he had a huge army against standing enemies. So it was particularly environmental activists who flooded hundreds of emails with your mailboxes before discussing the Senate proposal, why you should not vote in favour of the Senate bill. Finally, the Senate proposal was not approved and the Ministry at that time, it was known that when we dealt with the Senate proposal, it had already prepared an amendment to Law 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape, which should resolve the situation in Šumava together with the situation in other parks, which is not critical and which is not mentioned, there are actually no problems. The amendment to Law 114 is prepared by the then Ministry in cooperation with environmentalists. Massive support for the municipalities, the massive process of constant consultation with the municipalities, was evidently missing here and also on the shape of the law can be seen. The two regions on whose territory the Šumava National Park is located have repeatedly opposed this law. This, in short, is the genesis of how this law was introduced into the legislative process. At the beginning of the submission was a fundamental disapproval of the municipality with its likeness. Even at the beginning of this year, when the law came into the legislative process, the municipalities expressed their fundamental opposition, their fundamental opposition to this law. In this form, the law was therefore submitted to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure. This is a common process for every bill to be passed. A large number of fundamental comments were submitted by the Ministry of Agriculture at the time, of course aware of its responsibility for the forests and also for the agricultural land located in the park territory, a number of comments were submitted by the Ministry of Regional Development, aware of the fact that in the park territory, and in that the Šumava National Park is exceptional, there are municipalities, there are people living there, those municipalities want to manage, those people want to make a living. The two regions also submitted a fundamental disagreement with the draft law in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. Both the Pilsen Region and the South Bohemia Region rejected this proposal in their observations in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. Yet in it he got into the form of several things that were not part of this mainstream in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. These were things that, let's say, were intrigued by environmentalists, due to non-governmental environmental organisations. For example, in the definition of the park, the definition of the objectives of protecting national parks: ensuring the undisturbed course of natural events in their natural dynamics. This sentence was inserted in the inter-ministerial proceedings and, of course, my opinion is that it should legitimize everything that happened in the national park after 2007, when Minister Bursík decided that his ministry would not allow the first zones to be cleared after the Kyrill storm, and that resulted in a crusty calamity. Madam Vice-President, I think the time is coming. [[He's here.]] I'm not quitting my show, I have a lot more to tell you. I would then like to discuss the law as it was put forward and make my comments on it, but I will probably do so when it is next on the agenda for our meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-07-ps2013-033-02-007-069.u9	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, thank you. I'm interrupting this point. Of course, you will not lose your rights to the discussion and you will be automatically on the light board next time. I will now ask for Mr Kolovratník's microphone. We will proceed with the discussion of the point
