ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, as amended /German Press 395/ - First Reading Under the authority of the Government, Minister Chovanec was to mention this point, but I see that Minister Brabec is prepared here, and he is responsible to the House for points and his colleagues from other political parties, so I welcome him at the rapporteur's table. I will ask Mr Radim Holeček, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, to also move to the rapporteur's table. Minister Brabec has the floor. Before you begin to speak, Minister, I will say that President kolovratník will be given the floor first after this point, and I will ask all colleagues and colleagues to remain calm in the hall. If you want to discuss another point, wait impatiently for the election results, wait for them in the lobby. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u2	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honor for me to speak to you on behalf of the Minister of the Interior this time. I haven't played this role yet, and it would obviously look good on me, too. Let me briefly state the Government's bill amending the Act on Free Access to Information and which you have at your disposal as House press number 395. This is a draft law which responds to a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on the re-use of public sector information. The Act on Free Access to Information must respond to changes to the European legislation in question, which obliges the Member States of the European Union to transpose the amended directive with effect from 18 July this year. The proposal shall include in particular the following information provision measures: the obligation to publish information in open and, where possible, in machine-readable formats, where possible. Furthermore, the explicit incorporation of possible means of providing information, including ways to allow effective access to information for the re-use of information, of a more practical modification of the reference to the published information, where mandatory bodies that have referred the applicant to the website, following an electronically submitted request, will not be obliged to reflect the applicant's request for direct disclosure. Furthermore, the introduction of time limits for examining the duration of exclusive licences granted for the digitisation of cultural resources and, last but not least, the introduction of an obligation to indicate in the call for reimbursement of costs for providing information on the applicant's ability to lodge a complaint against the amount of the costs requested. The proposed changes should help to make public sector information more effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u3	Thank you, Minister of the Environment. Finally, environmental information is most often requested from public authorities, so you looked really handsome, Minister. The rapporteur Radim Holeček will present his report at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister on behalf of the proposed amendment has already said enough. In general, I think that we should pay more attention to the proposed prints that implement the requirements of the European directives, because I do not wish to traditionally be more papal than the Pope and our legal order to burden ourselves with completely unnecessary binding regulations. In this case, however, this is indeed primarily a technical amendment on free access to information, for some of you the infamous hundred-six, which reflects the debate of recent years on the use of modern means of communication in the provision of public data to applicants. This transposition of the directive of the European Union, in particular the proposed use of open data, even in a machine-readable way, essentially follows up on documents from the previous government period, such as the so-called. partnership for open governance or anti-corruption strategies of the Government 2013 to 2014. The benefit to the general public is that it enables public institutions to control more effectively, but also has a special potential contribution to research, innovation and business in general, as open data enable information to be used efficiently and appropriately combine buyers. for the development of applications, which is reported by the professional public of the technical faculties of our universities. It is a fact that the state's helpful approach to information technologies in today's age greatly affects its competitiveness. I will no longer delay and, like the Organizing Committee, I recommend ordering the petition committee to be discussed and to be released for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Věra Kovářová has signed up, which I will immediately give the floor, but before that I ask the House again for peace. Thank you. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to question this novel here. As has been said, they deal mostly with technical matters and I think they deserve to be discussed in committees. Possible consequences and contexts may be considered there. However, I do not feel that this proposal addresses the most pressing issue on the free access to information. I think he's somewhere else at the moment, and it's not that far. In a situation where mayors and officials, even in the smallest municipalities and cities, provide information on their income, the closest co-worker of the President of the Republic has a problem with this obligation. Dear colleagues, that is exactly what I believe is the problem with the free access to information that we should be dealing with. Therefore, I am already calling for a motion to adopt the accompanying resolution in the course of further discussion as follows: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic expresses concern about the current approach of the Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Vratislav Mynář to the request for information on the amount of his income. Its behaviour is grossly contrary to the requirements of public officials under the conditions of the democratic rule of law. [[14.40 hours]] In this context, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that it is unacceptable for a close associate of the head of state to violate the laws of this country. All the more so, in the case of Law No. 106 on free access to information is the legal situation with regard to the judgments concerning the predecessors of Chancellor Mynář. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic further states that the long-term abuse of the position of Head of the Office of the President of the Republic by Vratislav Mynář undermines the dignity of the head of state. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic therefore calls on the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman to take immediate action to remedy the situation. Thank you. . [[Applause for Members of the TOP 09 and Mayors]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Now in the debate, Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u8	Thank you. I would just like to propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sklenák. If no one applies to the debate, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? Not either. Since the final words are not final, there has not been a motion for repayment or rejection of the draft law tabled since Mrs Kovářová has read the motion for an accompanying resolution, we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the petition committee as a committee of guarantee. There was no change in the intelligence report. Does anyone else have a proposal after the guarantee committee? It's not like that. Please, Mr. Vondrášek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'm not in a relationship that committee guarantee. But I would suggest that the proposal be given to the Constitutional Legal Committee as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-01-ps2013-026-05-010-022.u11	So, after discussing the Committee on Guarantee, we would note as another Committee on Constitutional Law. We will now vote on the guarantee committee. I'm gonna turn on the gong for a while, I'm gonna check you out, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration, 'cause after all, I've asked my colleagues who are discussing another matter to go to the lobby. So I'll wait until the number of entries is settled so we can vote on the commandment. We will decide that the Committee on Petitions will be the guarantee committee for the discussion of this press, vote number 74, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 74, of the 121 Members present, for 120, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the petition committee as a guarantee committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The proposal was made to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as the next committee to discuss this press. Anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. So we will decide on the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee, in voting number 75, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 75, from 125 Members present for 102, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have yet to approve the commandment of the committee constitutionally legal, the deadline for discussion is under the law of 60 days. I'm done with number 22. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. [[Protests. Voice: Time limit.]] Sorry, sorry, the time limit for the hearing was - yes - a proposal to shorten the deadline, I apologize to my colleague Sklenák. We will still decide on a shortening of the time limit for discussion, namely in the vote the order number 76 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of a shortening of the time limit for discussion. Who's against it? In the vote order number 76 out of 128 present for 84, against 1. The application was accepted, the time limit for the hearing was reduced by 30 days. Thank you very much this time to the Minister, the rapporteur. I'm done with number 22. The next item will be paragraph 23, but before that, I will say to Mrs Gabriela Pecková, who apologizes from 14.30 to 19.00 from today's meeting day. Now let me begin the point.
