ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 133/2000 Coll., on the registration of residents and birth numbers and on the amendment of certain laws (the Act on registration of residents), as amended, Act No. 328/1999 Coll., on Civil Cards, as amended, Act No. 329/1999 Coll., on travel documents, as amended, and other related laws /house print 498/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on this proposal, which I set out in detail in the first reading. The proposal in the section containing the amendment to the People's Recording Act extends and specifies the data kept in the information system of the population records and the register of birth numbers. An obligation to allow natural persons declared for permanent residence at the address of the reporting office to receive notification of the deposit of the consignment and a call for instruction is now to be laid down. This provision will allow for the use of delivery fiction and will help to make delivery more effective under all procedural rules. In the parts of the proposal relating to amendments to the laws on civil documents and travel documents, in addition to adapting access to data in the single register, it is proposed to harmonise the rules for filing applications for such personal documents. It will be possible to submit an application at any office of the municipality with extended scope. In the Travel Document Act, it is proposed to terminate the issue of passports without machine-readable data and without a biometric data medium. On the contrary, it is possible to issue a full passport preferably within a reduced period of 6 working days for an increased administrative fee. The amendment to the Act on Administrative Fees, which, in addition to the increase in the administrative fee for issuing a passport within a short period of time, proposes to introduce new administrative fees, for submitting a proposal for cancellation of the permanent residence, for declaring the end of permanent residence in the territory of the Czech Republic as well as the administrative fee for the optional exchange of ID, taking into account the costs incurred by the municipalities in connection with this agenda. The draft law was discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Constitutional and Security Committee. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the Government's bill as amended by six amendments that were consulted with the Ministry of the Interior. Their purpose is, above all, the possibility of taking over the identity card and passport at the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope, which the citizen will indicate in his application, and thus the related introduction of a new administrative fee of CZK 100, and the extension of the validity of the ID for citizens over 70 to 35 years of age. I agree with these amendments, as I have just said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u3	Thank you. I am registering here an application with priority rights, but I am asking Mrs Černochová whether she will last when I open the debate. [[It'll hold.]] Excellent. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Security Committee and the Constitutional Legal Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 498/1 to 4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Klán, take the floor and inform us of the committee proposal and justify any amendment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Madam Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 27th meeting following the reasoning of Mgr Jana Vildumetzová, Deputy Minister of the Interior, after the report by Mr Mgr Jan Klán and following the debate adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the 498 press as amended by the amendments adopted. I will now introduce you to the various amendments. [[Noise in the hall.]] I. In Part Two, Amendment to the Civil Card Act, Art. Point 14 of point III shall read: "Citizen's card shall be taken over by the citizen or persons referred to in paragraph 2 at the municipal authority of the municipality with extended competence for whom an application for a licence has been submitted. The identity card referred to in Article 2 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be issued by the European Parliament and by the Council. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and (b) may also be taken over by the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope, which the citizen has indicated in the application.' II. In Part Two, Amendment to the Civil Card Act, in Art. The following point 17 is inserted after point 16: "The period of validity of the licence referred to in Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and (b) are (a) 10 years old, (b) 5 years old, if the identity card is issued to a citizen under 15 years of age or (c) 35 years old, if the identity card is issued to a citizen over 70 years of age.' Point (d) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 17 to 38 shall be referred to as points No. 18 to 39. III. In Part Three, Amendment to the Law on travel documents, in Art. Point 21 is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u5	I will ask my fellow Members in the Chamber to do so in the lobby, if they have anything to say to each other, and not disturb their colleague in his speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u6	"The person referred to in paragraph 1 shall be required to appear in person for the taking over of the travel document to the authority to which he has submitted an application for its issue. The passport issued within 30 days may also be taken over by the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope, which it indicated in the application. If she has submitted an application for the issue of a passport at the representative office, she may take it also at the municipal authority of the municipality with an extended scope relevant to its issue - § 12. The representative office may also forward the passport to the person referred to in paragraph 1 through the Head of Honorary Consular Office.' IV. In part eight, Amendment to the Act on Administrative Charges: "The issue of a licence with machine-readable data due to registration of a title or scientific rank or its issuance for other personal reasons over a period of more than half a year before the expiry of the existing ID card 200 CZK. Taking over the ID card with machine-readable data at the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope, which the citizen stated in the application, CZK 100." It is also here in part eight, Amendment to the Act on Administrative Fees, that the extension of the validity of the travel card 50 CZK for every change and receipt of the passport at the municipal authority of the municipality with extended effect, which the citizen stated in the application, 100 CZK. [[V.]] It is still only a change that this law takes effect on 1 January 2016, with the exception of the provisions of Art. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[to]] That's how many news reports he's got.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Václav Klučka, take the floor and introduce us to the committee's discussion and, if necessary, justify amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u8	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Let me introduce you to resolution 82 of the 19th meeting held on 2 September 2015. [[He said nine.]] Committee on Security of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the first Deputy Minister of Interior, Dr. Engineer Jiří Nováček, after the report by the Committee rapporteur, by engineer Václav Klučka and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to amend Act No. 133/2000 Coll., on the registration of residents and birth numbers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, Act No. 328/1999 Coll., on Civil Cards, as amended, Act No. 39/1999 Coll., on travel documents, as amended, and other related laws, House Press No. 498, has given its consent; [[People's Recording Act]] II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u9	Thank you and I now ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, President Jeroným Tejc, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me represent the rapporteur, Mrs Wernerová, with a brief report, such that at the 37th meeting on 2 September this year, we recommended that we approve the bill as it was tabled, i.e. without amendments. To that content, I will allow myself not to abuse the role of rapporteur, to sign up for a general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am now opening up a general debate in which I have the priority right to sign up to Mrs Černochová, and then Mr Luzar will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I have said some of the comments that I will also say to you on the Security Committee, where we dealt with this bill for other reasons. Of course, the guarantee committee was someone other than the Security Committee. But I think that all of us in this Chamber of Deputies should bear in mind that this standard applies to 10,5 million citizens of the Czech Republic. And I certainly don't like the way we're discussing something here again today, and we approve something, and the Home Office says there's a big amendment somewhere that we don't even know when it's going to be submitted to the legislative process. It is once again proof of the salami method that today we will adopt a little something in legislation, but then maybe in two years we will adopt a big law. We've been hearing this for a year and a half since we've been part of this honorable legislature. What bothers us, or what, as a deputy, but also mayor of the Prague 2 district, about this standard? I have a problem with the introduction of reporting obligations, when the proposal does not in any way address the persons with permanent residence in the reporting room. There are several hundred thousand of these people throughout the Czech Republic. It does not, however, address the permanent residence institute at the reporting office. It is under the distinctive character of the law to determine which persons have permanent residence at the address of the reporting office because they must have it there, on the ground that, when this institute exists, they cannot apply for permanent residence elsewhere, and the permanent residence information is cancelled on the basis of the authorised person's proposal. Or, for example, the permanent residence of a child of a woman who has applied for the secrecy of her person in connection with childbirth. This also applies to persons who have a permanent residence at the address of the reporting office in the long term and are obviously purposeful. For example, executions. It is generally quite well known that the easiest way to obtain permanent residence at the address of the reporting office is for a citizen to end permanent residence in the territory of the Czech Republic and then to come to the notice room and to state that he does not have any ownership or other right to use the property intended for housing without actually leaving the Czech Republic. It's simply circumvention and abuse of this law. Data on permanent residence often states that it is of a registered nature, but this is not the case in many cases. Even residents with permanent residence at the newsroom address have the right to vote, they can apply for the issue of a parking card as residents. This specifically concerns those blue zones that you hate in Prague, those who are not from the relevant city area. From the practice of the authorities it is also known that a frequent point in rental contracts, especially those concluded for a fixed period, is already quite regularly that the landlord expressly disagrees with the tenant's registration at the address of the landlord's landlord's landlord's permanent residence. While this is a civil matter, it is logically important for the tenant not to violate the provisions of the lease agreement, so that the option of the landlord's testimony is not exposed rather than to align the actual residence with the permanent residence. Another problem that has not been resolved by any amendment is the address for delivery. It is Section 10b, when the legislation in this respect is insufficient. The address for delivery can be set up with anyone without the owner of the object, the beneficiary, being able to know about it at all. The owner of the object, the authorized person, is not able to defend or cancel against the establishment of the address for service. As is the case with the cancellation of permanent residence data, for example, if that person establishes this, let's call it a, which has several executions, and set up a delivery address with B. This one will not know, has no way of defending himself against it and it is highly likely that the execution attempt will be carried out at the address of person B. In general, I would also like to appeal to my fellow municipal politicians in this House, so that we really start focusing on the level of administrative fees. Because administrative fees do not compensate individual municipalities for the costs they incur on the production of various documents, certificates, the entire agenda. They do not compensate for any or in some cases slightly increased administrative fees. I know it's a subject for a wider debate, but I'm sure you'll be struggling with the budget again with a lack of funding. Again, it is another agenda that the state delegates to the municipalities without giving them enough funding. And that we are seeing this more and more often, we all know that, and unfortunately, there is nothing going on that would improve our situation as local politicians. Another stupidity, which unfortunately has also not been removed by the amendment, is the security personal ID code. There is a problem that, in fact, since it was introduced, we have not even learned whether it has any practical or factual use. I don't know until today. Our real experience at City Hall is that entering this code is merely delaying the process of taking over the ID, and it is difficult to explain to a citizen taking over the ID, even though our officials are trying very hard. And that he must enlist, choose. This brings great problems in practice even when entering security codes. For example, people older, hospitalized on geriatrics or in LDN who are often unable to enter this code at all, let alone be able to remember this code throughout the validity of the ID. But it's not just a senior problem, it's a problem for all of us. We're just people and the codes that we have in our lives, whether it's PIN codes, security codes, surround us, there's so much that really this is our negative experience that these people don't even know why or what to do with it. What I think is perhaps the most important thing, and there I am glad and thank the members of the Public Administration Committee that they have removed things that were wrong there. Possibility to request the issue and receipt of a travel document from any municipal authority with extended scope. It is clearly desirable that the administrative fee should remain at the office where the citizen has requested the issue of a document, a ID card or a passport, and that the administrative fees are not transferred anywhere. When I saw it in the original version, of course, I was very worried that it would mean a fatal increase in the processed agenda for us, which would not be possible for personnel, capacity, technical coverage, and the Office of the City District of Prague 2, which has a third of the requests for identity submitted by non-residents, would again pay for the fact that no one would compensate us. Thank you for removing it. We appreciate not only me, but also the officials of the Prague 2 City Department. What should be said here, and I would like to hear the Minister's reply to that, for what reason did the bill leave a period of six working days? I think I understand why we want to cancel the temporary passports. I understand that we are still part of the European Union. That we want the biometric passports to be in circulation as much as possible. But again, my practice at City Hall is that it is now possible to apply for a passport without machine-readable data and without biometric data with a period of validity of six months and a deadline for release within 15 days. Applications for these passports are very common in our 2nd. In 2014, we issued over 130 passports. In the summer season we publish 20 pieces every two weeks. Because, of course, at the time of the vacation... We're just people. Someone's paying for a vacation, she's on Saturday, she's putting together papers on Thursday, she's exchanging money, and she finds out she doesn't have a passport. [[20.20 hours]] On Thursdays or Fridays he came to our town hall and we tried and we always did our best to get the passport so he could go on vacation. And it really is a practice that I think works not only in Prague 2, which is a central part of the city, but also in other municipalities that are available. Unfortunately, the proposed modification cancels the issue of passports without machine-readable data and without biometric data and anchors the issue of so-called. e-passage within a shorter period, please within six working days for an increased administrative fee. I'd even raise the fee even more. But you can imagine, fellow mayors, deputy mayors, councillors, the situation that a citizen will come to you - yes, his mistake was that he didn't make sure he had a valid passport - and you tell him sorry, six working days, you just have to cancel your vacation because usually that person, or most of us, acts like that he's on vacation for either a week or two weeks, so, in fact, during this period, he may have a passport somewhere, but he's not going on that vacation because six working days is really a very long time. And again, please don't look at it as politicians now, as officials, let's look at it as people. Let's think about how we behave, that sometimes we also just forget to arrange some things on time, and six working days is a very long time. Those people are going to be on leave, they're going to turn to the mayors, and we're going to explain to them that it's not our fault, that it's simply an amendment to the law of the Interior Ministry's pen, so they can go complain to Minister Chovanc. I was very surprised to discover on the website of the Ministry of the Interior of the Slovak Republic - Slovakia has quite well graduated passport expenditure for three periods and this corresponds to the corresponding differentiation of administrative fees. They have it divided: within 30 days, within 10 working days and into two - into two! - working days. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if there are really objective reasons why a passport cannot be settled in the Czech Republic within a period of less than six working days, when in another state, a country that is close to us not only from the point of view of borders, it is possible in two working days. I know there's an agenda a little easier than ours, but the production is still the same. And I understand the complexity of distribution that, if the possibility were only in the capital city of Prague, other regions would feel discriminated against, that they had to go to Prague. But we have county authorities here. I don't think any of the chieftains, the mayor, would refuse his office to carry out this agenda on Fridays, maybe Saturdays. We're thinking of having Saturday morning, because we're here to adapt to citizens' behavior, and to try to get along when someone's working late, so that they can sort out their agenda and their affairs on time. So I would like to ask the Minister very much if he could actually say that there is no way of shortening the time so that we really treat the citizens fairly and not destroy, not spoiling them with one of the few pleasures they have, and that is their vacation, when it will actually happen that they will cancel paid vacations on the ground that the possibility of taking a passport without biometric data will disappear in the legislation and they can go with it to countries which, of course, allow this passport. So I'm asking too much to find a solution here to find a way here, because it will bring a whole series of problems not only to us local politicians, but last but not least to the Ministry. And I don't think that's the aim of this proposal either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u13	I thank you and now allow you to quickly load two apologies, for the reasons of work of Minister Jurečka from 20.30 and Mr Kalousek from the 20.00 to the end of the meeting day. I will now ask Mr Pilný's factual comment and then prepare the duly signed-in Mr Luzar. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I have basically no comments about the law, I would just repeat my question, which I had here at first reading and which, to my surprise, was not addressed by the Security Committee, namely that the Civil Cards Act will also be issued by the Ministry of the Interior with a decree on the requirements of cryptographic keys and authentication certificates and on the security principles for the use of this certificate. So I ask again what it is, whether it is related to those voluntary citizens with the chip and, above all, how it is related to the eIDAS Directive on electronic identity, which is prescribed by the EU and which we must adopt next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u15	I thank you for complying with the time limit and now I am asking Mr Luzar for a microphone. Please, you have the floor. Before I give you my word, I'll ask my colleagues both on the right and on the left. There are few of them, but they can still make a lot of noise, so I'm going to ask them to calm down, to keep it down. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear gentlemen and Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the amendments that I have prepared for this law on the basis of familiarisation with the proposal submitted for a committee meeting which I have come to, as well as at the seminar which the committee has held on this law. These amendments are nine, but they are short. Don't worry, I'll allow myself a brief introduction to the justification. The first proposal is in Section 3 to delete paragraph 4, which reads: "If the citizen indicates that he does not wish to enter the address of the place of residence or data on the family status or partnership, this information shall not be entered in the ID card." The identity card in this country historically serves as the only relevant proof of the place of residence or, if applicable, of the place of residence. the condition of the person who has it. There are dozens of services and businesses that are territorially dependent on finding this person's place of residence - at random, a public library and similar institutions that draw data on contact with a person who borrows something from them. I am not talking about other rental companies - construction machines and others and others that depend on the data provided in the ID card. And I'm not really talking about the recent growing extortion of emotional, virtually. matrimonial, when various marriage cheaters and other existences abuse a difficult time and cannot somehow present evidence as to their family condition or their possible. by residence. I think that the tradition of putting in a permanent residence card and status here should be maintained. That's why I suggest we drop this point. Second point. In Article 3, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 add the following words: "The number of the ID card is entered in the contact electronic chip and the data can be further entered" - here I add "and applications," "the registration and scope of which is specified by a special regulation." I would like to point out here that, of course, the Ministry of the Interior, with its special regulation, sets out the data to be entered in the ID card. But I also want to draw attention to the difference between date and application. I think this option will allow the relevant departments of the Ministry of the Interior to look for further use of the ID as a specific electronic media allowing for further applications. Therefore, I propose to add this one word to paragraph 6 of Section 3. [[20.30 hours]] In Article 4, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 add in the proposed sentence "Ask for the issue of the identity card referred to in § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) a citizen may, at any municipal authority of the municipality, have the extended scope of the competent authority referred to in paragraph 1. 1. The application form, processed by the municipal authority of the municipality, is accompanied by two photographs of the size -" this point continues. I suggest adding to this "general authority of the municipality with extended scope, if the office is not equipped with a digitized workstation acquiring the necessary data". In this point, the Ministry automatically assumes that it will have to equip the authorities with digitized workplaces and does not leave an open door to the municipal authorities' own initiative, which can offer this service to its citizens as part of their own investment and take photographs for citizens in the form of electrical imagery. I think that these municipalities in the Czech Republic should have had this opportunity, to extend the service for their own resources and to offer it to citizens. In Article 4, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 delete the penultimate sentence: "For religious or health reasons, the application may be submitted for religious or health reasons with a head cover which may not cover the facial part in a way which makes it impossible to identify the citizen.' On this subject, I would like to remind myself that, as has already been said in this debate today, we are living in a secular state, and a head cover, in my opinion, is not a matter that should be tolerated within the framework of religion from the point of view of identifying a citizen. Now I'm not talking about Muslim countries at all, but these problems can arise. Europe is struggling with this and it is quite a big problem. I am not even talking about the fact that a bunch of recessists - and in Czech lands this has already happened in my opinion, I was able to capture this in the media - appeared a church that called itself a "church of butter on its head" or "head pots" and was allowed to take pictures or want to be photographed with this subject and thus point out the absurdity of this regulation that for religious reasons I can have a head covering, whatever it is. The second thing - of course, health reasons, I would be able to understand, but here I want to point out that health reasons are mostly a fleeting issue against the validity of the ID. From this title, I think it's quite a marginal issue, which is why I recommend that this be released. Five. In Article 13b (1) of the Treaty on 1: The birth numbers determined before 1 January 2003 may be kept in paper form only. I suggest we add "to the time of digitization of the paper records." Here at this point, in my opinion, the Ministry is a little bit alibied that the digitization as it doesn't have to, and it ends, we have it in the law - I would recommend that this door be open and that it has to be digitized by civil servants in order to digitize older records than by 2003, it was in this law. Six. In Article 17, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (h) delete: "if they are registered in the ID card'. Here it is pointed out that only the records that are physically registered in the ID card will be made electronically. Here I would like to propose this release given that the ID has its own format and that format cannot, of course, be written all the data that the future might want to record within the central record. From this title, I think that this sentence or this shut-off should be deleted from this law, thus enabling the state to keep data other than those entered in the ID by electronic means in the register of citizens. Eight o'clock. The provisions of the Security Information Service Act - I will now read provisions relating to laws other than those specifically of the law, but they have a link to the central register of residents - the provisions of the Security Information Service Act in Section 13 Covering means, cover documents to be supplemented in point 5 "and access records for insertion of changes or deletion of data in the register." For clarification. The current state of the proposal is that the Director of the Security Service only records the release and cancellation of such a cover document, which, of course, can be checked, but no longer requires this director to keep records of any interference, which I would suggest extending, because I can imagine interventions in existing documents - I don't know, orientally need proof of education, of family status, etc., which could and would not be registered anywhere and would actually be anonymous, updated by the region, which would be in the register of residents without matching the truth. This allows only increased control of the intervention into the central records of these authorities. Provisions common, transitional and final in Section 11a Use of information systems data - delete in paragraph 1 "and for the purposes of recovering the fees due, and the surcharges referred to in Section 10 in paragraph 2 the same sentence'. This paragraph or this point concerns the possibility of public bodies, namely Czech Television, Czech Radio, to freely access the citizens' central records. I confess, I don't like this approach in general, but I suggest we release only the one part that serves to recover debts. The paragraph relating to registration remains there, i.e. so that the institution has an accurate overview of how many citizens in the Czech Republic are, where they live, etc., but no longer to consider or draw this figure in the context of the recovery of claims. First of all, I think it's immoral for her to make her job easier to get her abonents and transmission fees. And secondly, it introduces a slightly uneven attitude towards other subjects. Here I would like to remind myself of, for example, the Copyright Union, which is also entitled by law to choose something, and at that moment we would have another demand here - and we also want it to make our job easier and have a whip on the dishonest ones. The last amendment I propose is in Part 12 of the Act on Resistance and Resistance to Communism, § 7a para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 3 - release the word "comise a." This paragraph says that the government will set up a special ethics committee to reward or appreciate these people. I don't have a problem with that, it's government business. But what I have a problem with is that this committee - let us call it an ethical committee whose composition will be approved by the government - is free access to citizens' records for everything it probably needs to do. This committee, in my view, is gaining too much access to citizens' personal data. If this commission is created and the government appoints it, then, of course, this commission, like any other institution or commission, has the possibility to request such information from the Ministry of the Interior or from the government that has that access in this section, it would be preserved. So, again, I am concerned that other institutions, or just some temporary body, do not have legal access to population records. So many of my comments. In a detailed debate, I will then join the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u17	Thank you. Before Mrs Kovářová comes to the microphone next in line, allow me to load two more apologies. Mrs Golasowská apologizes from 20 hours 30 minutes to the end of today's day and from 20.45 for personal reasons, Mr Komárek. I am now asking Mrs Kovářová to prepare Mr Kudela. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we originally wanted to make an amendment, but this law contains provisions on whether to apply for a new ID or to exchange it, the clerk will offer you whether you want an ID with a chip. And what do you ask as a client? "What's that for? What's the chip for?" And the clerk says, "Nothing yet." "How much is it?" "It's 500 crowns." And what will the citizen choose? Of course, a citizen will take his ID without a chip, because the chip is of no use to him yet. I originally wanted to make this amendment with the fact that the administrative fee of CZK 500 would not be paid and the citizen would, of course, choose, even if it does not serve anything so far, a citizen's ID card with a chip that one day in the future will be able to use it and will not have to go to the office repeatedly. I have updated this amendment on our Sub-Committee on Public Administration and eGovernment with the fact that the employees of the Ministry of the Interior have told us that they are counting on that from 1. 1. 2017 could be introduced so-called electronic identity. [[20.40 hours]] It goes 1.5 miles a year. I.D.'s. If we allowed citizens to decide on a chip ID, they wouldn't have to go to the I.D. office again after the introduction of an electronic identity. I was persuaded by the employees of the Ministry of the Interior not to submit this amendment, on the grounds that by December, they would submit a draft amendment to the Chamber of Deputies with the fact that a free chip would be introduced and, if necessary, citizens could also get a reader to this chip, which would then be from 1. 1. They could use 2017. I am saying this here because I consider this promise to be binding, and I hope that we will have such a proposal in the House by December, because we, in the subcommittee on public administration and eGovernment, wait two years in vain for a law that we could discuss and which would move us to an electronic identity that would make life easier for a number of citizens and authorities as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u19	I thank the honourable Member and please take the microphone next in order, and that is Mr Kudela. Mr. Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, hello, Madam President, more like a good evening. I've been reading the bill's draft. I was intrigued by one thing that everything is registered to a citizen. The following data shall be kept with the citizen: name, surname and surname, birth number, date of birth, sex, marital status and marriage data or partnership data, adoption of data on death or declaration for the deceased or missing. The law should be general, remember all possibilities. What I didn't find is maybe a little something, little thing, maybe a serious thing. I couldn't find the sex-change data because the sex-change name, last name, maybe even the birth number and these things change. Maybe the last item will be used to do that, and those are notes. I don't know. So, if someone acknowledges that gender change should also be recorded in the electronic system, then, of course, it is possible to propose this in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u21	I thank the Member. Now, please get to Mr. Hovorka's microphone. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u22	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on the debate at first reading and to draw attention again to the failure to address the issue of announcements. It's already been mentioned here. It's the abuse of this institute. There is a constant increase in the number of people who are reported for permanent stay at the reporting office. Here I would like to draw the Minister and the Ministry of the Interior's attention to clear contradictions concerning the permanent residence of citizens. It is a contradiction in Sections 10 and 12. Paragraph 10 concerns the permanent residence of citizens and § 12 cancellation of the permanent residence. Paragraph 2 of Section 10 states that no rights to the property referred to in paragraph 1 or to the owner of the property arise from the registration of the citizen to permanent residence. The place of permanent residence of a citizen at the time of his birth is the place of permanent residence of his mother. If the mother is not a citizen, the place of permanent residence of the child at the time of birth shall be the place of permanent residence of the father. In the event that the permanent residence of a citizen as referred to in paragraph 3 cannot be established, the permanent residence of that citizen shall mean the residence of the reporting office in whose territory the citizen was born or the residence of a special registry in the event of his being born abroad, etc. Then there is a significant paragraph 5 where it is said that the change in the permanent residence of the citizen is reported to the reporting room at the place of the new permanent residence. If the permanent residence is officially cancelled, § 12, the permanent residence is the registered office of the reporting office in whose territory the permanent residence of the citizen has been officially cancelled. In the case of the adoption of a citizen abroad, the address of the place of permanent residence of the adopted child shall be the seat of the reporting centre in whose territory the adopted child has the last place of residence and, at the same time, the permanent residence shall be terminated. If you look at that section 12, the cancellation of the permanent residence, then in paragraph 1 in the letter. (c) it is written: If the citizen's right of use to an object or a defined part of an object whose address is listed in the population register as a permanent residence of a citizen and if the citizen does not use this object or its defined part. Now there is paragraph 2: Announcement will decide on the cancellation of the permanent residence data pursuant to paragraph 1 letter. (c) only on the proposal of the owner of the object or of its defined part or on the proposal of the authorised person referred to in Section 10 (1) (a) Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (c). In such a case, the applicant shall be obliged to have the reasons referred to in paragraph 1 (a). (c) prove to the public. There is clearly a contradiction in which the section "permanent residence of citizens" says that no rights to the property referred to in paragraph 1 or to the owner of the property arise from the registration of a citizen for permanent residence, and, on the other hand, in the event of the cancellation of the permanent residence data, it is already mentioned that the permanent residence may be cancelled if the right of use has expired, etc. I think that these two things should be brought into line and the Ministry should seriously address why and for what reasons the Institute of Reporting Office is being abused as official addresses. Actually, I'd like to respond to that. This is a problem which, in my opinion, is not able to solve by a Member in the form of a parliamentary proposal, but nevertheless I would like to point out from practice one thing, namely the fraud of persons who are assigned to the address of the notice. In my opinion, if a citizen's special-purpose transfer to the address of the reporting office occurs, this change should in any event be reflected in the trade and trade register and should be explicitly stated that it is a permanent residence, which is the registered office of the reporting office, so that the potential business partners of that natural person know that there may be a problem, because there is often non-payment of invoices in trade relations, etc. For this reason, I have taken the liberty of submitting an amendment, which I will read in the detailed debate to which I am reporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Bendl's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, in discussing this point in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, we have found that the Czech Republic has, in essence, not shifted in terms of citizens' access to the state in terms of information and simplification of the agendas that are troubling people since the Czech Points were created. We just found out that - I want to correct my colleague Kovářová - on a direct question about chips on our citizens' ID cards, where the state wants 500 CZK, as she said here, that is correct, but in the debate we learned that the state will probably not need it for the future and will not use it. Authorities say to people: buy, pay for your ID card with a chip, because you may not have to carry some documents to the office in the future and you won't have to verify them and you will have them there permanently, but we have learned from ministerial officials that this will probably not be the case, that the European Union is considering a different way of registering, signing rights and so on, everything related to it, and that this chip will probably be useless. [[20.50 hours]] I would ask the Minister of the Interior whether he could inform us at the third reading whether or not we will need a chip or whether the public administration will continue to offer citizens something for $500 that the state will not use in the end. I think that's at least one of the small things the Home Secretary could do. We found during the debate that, unlike Slovakia, which has been mentioned here today by my colleague Černochová, that they can do the relevant document within two days and we are proposing here in the Czech Republic in six working days that Slovák, as regards eGovernment and the situation in the work of individual registers with which the state is working, are far ahead of us, that in terms of meeting citizens, simplifying agendas and simplifying the state's agenda as such, which saves considerable funding, the Slovák are really five, maybe six years ahead of us. And it's a shame the Home Office is sleeping in this respect in my deepest conviction. There's basically nothing going on in the eGovernment area. We all looked at each other there. We have also been to a rather large conference on this area, and all those who are moving in this area note that really those two years have been in eGovernment, simplifying state agendas, basically nothing happened, because we expect the European Union to come up with something for us somewhere. I would ask the Minister of the Interior because he comes from the public administration and he is closer to it than he is to the police, I suppose that he should focus on this matter and agree with the Prime Minister that he will force individual state agendas to start communicating and working together, to be compatible with individual registers, to make it clear whether the Czech Republic wants to do something for citizens in this regard, to simplify their agenda. When we say here today that, although 70-year-olds, we're going to ask them to change their IDs in 30 years or 35 years, that we might even torture someone here in 106, that they have to go to the office to exchange IDs, I think it would be more practical for him to be there already, that he has this ID for life. But I'm almost 100% sure that in two in three years, the state will come and say - another citizen, another chip or no chip or anything like that. As in the opinion of a number of people sitting in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, it would be easier for the Czech Republic and the citizen to have one document so that we can have both ID and passport in one for example. Some countries can do that. I don't know if the Czech Republic wants the vision of the Ministry of the Interior. I wonder how the Home Office feels about this. I understand that maybe the Minister won't be able to answer now, but maybe at third reading something about a vision in this area, the Minister could tell us. There are a number of things that we have encountered in the area of increasing numbers with permanent residence at those city halls where the state can arrange the way for those who end up with their records in the city halls, but there is no way out of here. As we all know there are frauds going on, a lot of people have learned that, but how to eventually start reducing the number of people registered at the city halls, there is also no recipe at this time, and it brings quite a lot of problems to the town hall. So I'm wondering what the Home Office really wants to figure out in the future whether he has a cure or whether we're just gonna watch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u25	I, too, thank you and ask whether anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Allow me to respond briefly to my previous speakers, and the Minister will surely supplement me in some matters. To Mr Bendl's last previous speaker on the issue of a citizen's card to persons over 70 years of age or 35 years of validity. I've been trying in some way to keep those older people alive, that's for an indefinite period of time. It was made clear to me from the ministry that he doesn't know our system for an indefinite period of time. I don't know how that's possible. He just doesn't know her because there's got to be some figure in there. If it's been in force for a hundred years, it'll be there for a hundred years. That was the answer from the Home Office. That is why we agreed on 35 years in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development on the grounds that the oldest citizen lived 104 years at this time, which is why the 35 years seem adequate to us. Of course, you might argue that after living through that respectable age of 105 years, he'll have to move on to the office in some way, but it's not true. He will be able to use the off-line mode, which of course will still work. That means the officials will come home to you, take pictures of you, prepare everything, and then bring you your ID again. So, of course, the off-line mode must remain valid just because they use it, for example. people with disabilities, because they will not be dragged to the office either, so it will normally remain. It is worth mentioning here that an indefinite period for persons over 65 years or 70 years of age, which does not matter, had Poland and Slovakia, but cancelled in 2014, respectively in 2013. I don't know what led them to this, but they canceled it, too. As for the travel document and the publication of the express in six days, it seems quite good to me that it will be in six days, of course for the administrative fee, but, as Mrs Černochová said here, if I went on vacation as a normal citizen, then when I plan it, I will first see if I have a valid travel document. At least let me see, I always check to see if I have a valid travel document. Otherwise, it is mostly the citizen's fault that it will not guard its validity, but, of course, if Slovakia can do it in two days, then I do not see why we would not be able to do it either, if they can do it in Slovakia, of course. After what is important here in this amendment and in the amendments, it is that there will no longer be local jurisdiction in the issue of travel documents. This means you will be able to apply for it in any community with extended powers and there you will also have to pick it up if you include it in the application, of course for an administrative fee of CZK 100. There hasn't been a certain unification of local jurisdiction with driver's licenses yet. I consulted with the Deputy Minister of Transport today, as well as the Deputy Minister of the Interior, and I was told that local jurisdiction in driving licences would be abolished. This means you will be able to request and pick it up in any village with extended scope. This will, of course, be dealt with in the Road Traffic Act. There will be one amendment to unify all this. There has also been a discussion here at first reading that individual photographs can be passed on to each other by the authorities if they are based in one building. All of this will be dealt with in the Road Traffic Act, so for example. the photo from the system where you will be photographed on the ID card will be able to draw a register of drivers, so you will no longer have to wear e.g. a physical photograph. There's been a lot of reports here. I know that this is a rather significant problem and it needs to be addressed, but let us say that this amendment concerns really civil documents and travel documents. Of course, there are also partially reports there, however, according to the assurance of the Ministry of the Interior, the problem of announcements and other things, e.g. the permanent residence on the civil documents, which actually from 1. 1. 2017 will be the choice whether or not to leave it there will be a big amendment that should come to the Chamber of Deputies at the end of the year or at the latest at the beginning of the next year. So let's really deal with the IDs and travel documents so that it doesn't turn out to be something monstrous when we say it in the third reading. But it's for everyone to consider. There's still that permanent residence on the ID card. Of course, I'm inclined to keep the permanent residence there, because if someone is going to legitimize you, they usually ask you about the address or permanent residence, and if the police are going to legitimize you, they're looking at where you live. [[21.00 hours]] If this is not mentioned, you will need to have either a different identity card with you, where permanent residence will be stated, or you will have to have some kind of document, for example. from Czech POINT, where you actually live. This is all for consideration, but I think at this point, it's gonna be everything from me. I will only have a legislative technical amendment in the amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u27	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. And the Minister is interested in the final word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u28	I, through Madam President, would like to thank everyone for the debate. I'm sure the debate is beneficial. I've consulted some questions with my colleagues, so if you don't mind, a few details. Slovakia. In Slovakia, the system of issuing documents is easier. They're being issued by the police. And those two days, my colleague through Madam President, are valid only in Bratislava. This means that the citizen must ask in Bratislava, he will arrive in Bratislava and he will receive in Bratislava. We're not saying it's a six-day deadline. We say six days. That means the deadline can be shorter. But according to the technological data that we've been communicating with the person who prints the passport, collection sites, transportation, extradition - we're able to guarantee six days. Of course, there will be an effort to make the deadline shorter, but we are unable to guarantee two days. Again, Slovakia only applies and only in Bratislava according to our data. As regards the question of Mr Pilný. We're working on eIDAS. I'll send you a full written report. About the codes you were talking about. The new function of the chip - and I answer other questions - should also allow recording of so-called. private signatures, i.e. This should allow for this new functionality. Let us hope that further functionality will increase as the possibility is extended within the framework of individual legislation. On the question of Mr Bendl through Madam President. I think it deserves some kind of professional seminar. And we're ready to prepare the seminar and run it. I'd be very happy if you'd be involved, Mr. Colleague. This means that, in a short time, we will give all Members of Parliament a position report on eGovernment, developments over the last year and a half or two years, starting points, and we will propose, if possible, some gesecutive committee if it takes place, that we would organise this seminar and there, to some extent, have a few hours of debate which I think is clearly necessary. To Mr Koudel through Madam President. [[Right Kudel]] We believe that when sex changes, there is a record in the history of the person concerned's data, but not in that document. [[Noise on the right.]] The sex change has been raised here as one of the questions...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u29	Mr. Kudela.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u30	I'm sorry, colleague. I'm sorry. [[He's not present.]] Even though he's not here, I'm sorry. As far as Mr Hovorka is concerned, there has been this possibility that he has referred to for 15 years and there are no problems with it. We think it's more of a misunderstood issue. And I'm gonna have a short notice of how we see it. Or let's go back to that at third reading. What we talked about with my colleague Bendl, I've already said here. Finally, to Mrs Černochová through Madam President. I wouldn't want to bother those people with one of the few pleasures, though I can imagine other than vacations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u31	Thank you for the final words. And now I am initiating a detailed debate. I'm just reminding you-- [[Mrs Cernoch is asking for the floor.]] But you came forward with the facts when I open the debate. I'm registering you, but I have to comply with the Rules of Procedure. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. And now I will ask Mrs Černochová. I have it logged in with a de facto or a priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u32	I'd like to ask the Minister what other joy he meant. [[With a smile.]] No, seriously. Thank you. I also met with colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior in discussing the right of assembly. I must say that their willingness to accept some of the proposals of local politicians here is clear. Thank you so much for that. And I think that before the mother who goes on vacation with her two children should cancel this vacation for, say, 30,000, or go from Ostrava to Prague to get the passport, she prefers to choose of course variant b). So if that option were at least in Prague, I think it would be an alternative that these citizens would certainly like to take advantage of. I do not have a loaded amendment, but I wanted to ask, as my colleague Klán said here, when the bill is submitted to the legislative process at the end of the year, if it could not be included in this amendment so that the citizen would have the opportunity. And let's leave it to them again. Let's not think for them. I know you're right, Mr. Colleague, that of course a lot of people are responsible and look in the drawer to see if he has the passport or not. But a lot of people - I don't want to say that he's irresponsible, but a lot of people are just counting on him to have it there, even when he finds out at the airport that the passport has expired. So once again, as I say, let's sometimes think about how we behave ourselves, and let's not just look at it from the position that we're like executives who are absolutely responsible in all aspects of our actions. We're just not. There are stories like this happening every week at City Hall in the summer months and I experienced the willingness even of our officials to open our counter on Saturday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u33	[[He's coming in.]] Madam, I'm sorry, your time. Thank you. And now, please, the first duly entered into a detailed debate, that is Mr Luzar, Mr Hovorka will be prepared, and then Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u34	Thank you. I've only been for a very short time. I also know how to use technique, and I won't ask a question. Only why it takes one week to issue a passport in Norway, and it is still being printed in Finland, and why we have so much trouble printing the passports faster in Prague. But I would like to sign up here for House document 2798, which contains my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u35	Thank you. And I'll get Mr. Hovorka's mike. Before this happens, Mr Bendl withdraws his application for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u36	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to table a short amendment to the Parliament's press 498, namely the People's Recording Act. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 9, which reads: "When changing the permanent residence of a natural person to the registered office of the reporting office, the reporting office shall communicate to the trade and trade register the name, surname and date of birth of the citizen leading to the indication of the place of permanent residence. The trade and trade register shall indicate for the business person the change of permanent residence to the address of the reporting office and shall indicate that it is the address of the registered office of the reporting office.' The following paragraphs are amended. Short justification: This amendment is intended to ensure that entrepreneurs are informed that any business partner has a permanent residence in the reporting room, i.e. the relevant municipal or municipal authority, and thus avoid any unpleasant surprises and fraud in the operation of the business in the event of the purpose of the transfer of the business to the address of the reporting office. And otherwise, thank you for the Minister's offer to deal with the announcements. Even for getting a letter from the Home Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u37	Thank you. And I ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. [[Member of the Clan reporting.]] In a detailed debate, Mr rapporteur, or as a final word? Okay, the rapporteur for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u38	I still have to sign up for the detailed debate on my amendment, which is being held in the system under number 2792. This is a legislative technical regulation based on the requirements of legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-15-ps2013-031-01-008-018.u39	Yes, thank you. And once again, the challenge is whether anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate and ending the second reading of this proposal. [[21.10 hours]] We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
