ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u1	138. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 27th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of seven responses were submitted to the meetings of the Chamber of Deputies, with which Members were not satisfied, and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Assembly of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will therefore now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. One more note came to my house. By 9.10 or 9.15, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš apologizes from today's meeting. I am canceling the note I have read, Mr Horáček, who is present at today's meeting. The first point is the interpelation of the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek responded to the interview by Mr Miroslav Grebeníček on compliance and enforcement of the law for the protection of peace, the UN Charter and the Hague and Geneva Conventions on International War Law and the Protection of the Victims of War, the civilian population and prisoners of war and occupations, diplomatically, materially and militarily supported by the Government of the Czech Republic and implemented by NATO Member States and the NATO Pact. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 429. As Mr Grebeníček is not present at today's meeting, this first written interview is postponed. The next is an interview with Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. He also apologized from today's meeting, so I am also delaying this interpelation. Next, there is an interview with the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, who apologized for about 10 minutes from today's meeting. I therefore propose that I place this item in the presence of the Minister of Finance and Vice Prime Minister Babiš and continue to discuss the points included, and these are the points of the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka. I'm asking if anyone is objecting to the procedure. [[When asked from the plenary, the President answers that the inclusion of other points is not until 11 o'clock, now there are answers to written interpelations.]] Since no one has objected to my proposed procedure, I am opening the first point of written interpellation concerning the Minister of Agriculture. Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka responded to Mr Petr Bendl's interpellation in the case of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 467. I open the debate and ask who wants to speak, whether the Minister of Agriculture or Mr Bendl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Dear Minister, colleagues, I have turned to the Minister of Agriculture on the matter of timber contracts in the Czech Forests and asked him questions which I will introduce you to. The first was, under which contracts are given to the Forests of the Czech Republic... I'm sorry, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u3	I'm in order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u4	One more second, I took another piece of paper.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u5	Of course, go get your files.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u6	Thank you for your patience, I'm very sorry. The first question was how the Forests of the Czech Republic sell wood in auctions. The second question was, through whom wood is sold in the Czech Forest auctions. The third question, I ask you to provide complete contractual documentation on the basis of which the wood is sold in auctions. Fourth, I request that documents be provided for the selection procedure under which contracts have been signed with the timber sales intermediary. The Minister replied that Forests of the Czech Republic sell wood in several ways through presentation auctions and electronic auctions. He provided me with materials relating to the selection procedure, respectively. The Minister here calls it a tender in his material, however it is a tender procedure called. JŘBU, or unified procedure without publication, i.e. a direct issue, with electronic auctions being provided by Elza and VARS. During last year, these companies brokered the sale of woodwoods of the Czech Republic at the level of about 950 thousand ccs of wood. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] The minister here says that on average the remuneration of this company is moving somewhere on the level, I say, crowns 50 per cubic meter, which I think is relatively fine. Nevertheless, I would like to ask whether, when choosing this company, when it was possible for JŘBU, other companies were also contacted, because before Elza and VARS received this contract, another broker operated electronic auctions of the Forests of the Czech Republic, and why JŘBU was eventually chosen in the event that others were not contacted. If they've been approached, I think it's okay. Then I don't understand why the Minister didn't let me know who was addressed and why JŘBU was eventually. But what I consider to be a much bigger problem, and I would say, that is the main reason why I have asked for the inclusion of this material at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, is a matter called. Presidential auctions, which, according to the Minister, is an additional activity -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u7	I'm sorry, colleagues, but the noise level in the room is very high again. If you have something to say and you need to discuss it, go to the lobby. You can't hear what's being lectured here. Thank you for respecting that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u8	That is, as the Minister states, an additional activity or an additional sale through which approximately 100,000 cc's of wood were sold last year. These 100,000 cc's of wood were brokered by Foresta SG. This company, the minister here states that it has only so-called. Intermediary contract and collects commission from the sold cubicle of wood approximately 55 CZK per cubicle while paying for each individual auction it will hold for the Forests of the Czech Republic, approximately 80 CZK per auction, which is minimum money. According to the Minister, there were some 317 auctions last year, so-called. In a descending way, when Forests of the Czech Republic, together with Foresta SG, will introduce those interested in the maximum price and then during this presentation, the price will be reduced until someone is found to buy the wood offered in this auction. But what I think is at least, in simple terms, beyond the scope of the Public Procurement Act is the fact that Foresta SG did not come out of any tender, was addressed so-called. directly, while other companies are already doing auctions for the Forests of the Czech Republic. So I don't understand why there wasn't a tender, and I'd like that explanation. At the same time, I would like to ask you about the fact that a contract was signed with Foresta SG, where the Forests of the Czech Republic guarantee that through Foresta SG will be sold this year, I suspect, at least 200,000 ccs of wood, while, as the Minister states, the commission from the sold cab is 55 CZK. Last year, over 109,000 cc's of wood were sold. If this trade of Forests of the Czech Republic is mediated by Foresta SG, which, as I say, came without a tender, entered directly, when you count 109 thousand ccs of wood times 55, it is the profit of the company mediated from the Forests of the Czech Republic last year, about 5.5 million, this year it is millions of 11, and I am deeply convinced that it is behind the edge of the Public Procurement Act. By the way, I gave exactly the same interpelation to Minister Stropnický, whether the Military Forests and Farms are also using this system and the Foresta SG company. I've been told that yes, but they're selling about 16,000 cc's of wood through them this year. If you multiply 55 you'll definitely get within 2 miles. I don't think there's a major problem. And Minister Stropnický says in the second interview that, of course, a tender will be drawn up for a timber sales agent in this form, because they believe, and I think that is correct, that it simply has to go through the selection procedure. Here it happened that the new management of the Forests of the Czech Republic, and I note that I had already had an interview with the Minister of Agriculture once, concerning the selection procedure for the company, for the personnel agency that selected the management, the Deputy Director General of the Forests of the Czech Republic, that the company also failed the selection procedure, it was a contract up to 2 million. CZK, and coincidentally one of the Deputy Director General became a former member of the statutory bodies of Foresta SG, Mr Radovan Srba. It's possible to track it in the commercial register, I think it's possible for everyone who's interested to look at it, to discover it. [[9.20 hours]] Given how the Minister here, and also how it can be traced in my interpelation, he said how he personally advocated that all the contracts, which were somehow negotiated at the time, would be stopped, that they would be checked, whether there was something unfair going on there or not, which I acknowledged, and I say now that it is okay. However, the new management, which has already been promoted by the Minister of Agriculture, is organizing new management of the Forests of the Czech Republic, respectively in quotation marks selection procedures and mediating relatively significant trade for 11 million this year, last year for CZK 5.5 million of the company, in whose supervisory bodies the current member of the highest management of the Forests of the Czech Republic worked, I note, without a tender procedure. I want to ask how this combines with the sentences that we have heard here about the waste of money and the need to prevent the unfairness there, which I call it, is fine, and if there is anything there, it is necessary to describe it, name it and take concrete measures. Here, Minister, and I think you've had enough time to study it, you've really used the 30-day deadline for almost a second precisely, you should answer me, so you've had enough time to check whether it's okay or not. So I'm asking you if it's normal that, in a situation where there are companies in the business area that are able to mediate sales through auctions, you proceed through a single procedure without publication, that means a direct assignment - that's the first question. I'm convinced it's not enough and it's wrong. You should have put out a tender. Moreover, the period of two million crowns, which he takes as a commission from the sale of forests, is exceeded or I will say the property of the Forests of the Czech Republic last year. I'm quoting 5.5 million. This year, you committed to brokering the business of the Foresta SG company for CZK 11 million, and I consider it absolutely scandalous that a person who, even a few weeks before the contract was signed and before becoming a High Representative of the Forests of the Czech Republic and Deputy Director, sat in the supervisory bodies or supervisory body of the company or the statutory body of Foresta SG. Please, Minister, explain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister will respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u10	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, good morning. I would like to add and say a few things to what Mr Bendl has said here. On the key question of why there was no tender. So it is necessary to realize that the system of measuring the volume of the forest offered at the presentation auction is a thing that has been developing in the Czech Republic for over ten years. It's a very sophisticated activity. The first pioneer of this method, and the company also supplies it to other countries, is the company Foresta SG. I will just remind you that this company worked in the Forests of the Czech Republic long before I joined the Ministry of Agriculture. She worked there for Minister Bendl. As far as the matter of measurement is concerned, yes, another company is profiling in the Czech market, with which, if I am not mistaken, I should have a meeting, they approached me on this matter, I would like to meet with them, I do not see the problem. And with regard to the future of the method of sale in the framework of presentations and evaluation of this wood, we are more or less heading towards the system that we will do this activity ourselves as the Forests of the Czech Republic through the in house system, because we perceive that this will be one of the best models we can make in terms of saving and finding effective activities of the Forests of the Czech Republic. So much for this matter. It is necessary to realize that the Forests of the Czech Republic - this is not a service that Foresta would do for the Forests of the Czech Republic. This service is done by Foresta for those who buy the wood. We don't know if we're gonna sell 200,000 cc's of wood this year, that's some kind of plan. This is a question of how the situation will develop this year, if there will be any calamity and so on. I have to say some things that have also been said here, I also have a few things to add. I may be a little sorry that, as Mr Bendl today is interested in the Forests of the Czech Republic, he was not so interested in the Forests of the Czech Republic when he was Minister of Agriculture. At the time, the forests of the Czech Republic really needed this, because the things that were going on there, and I see today, when it comes only to savings in the internal functioning of the Czech Forests, which reached more than 250 million crowns last year, Mr Bendle through Mr President, I always ask what my predecessors and ODS ministers did when I see it. Why have some contracts been concluded there, why have some firms such as Dynn and Time Import supplied things that maybe the Forests didn't need at all in some cases? It is a pity that ministers cannot intersect their former predecessors, current Members, it might be interesting. And what you've made here several times in some of the innuendoes. If you feel anything illegal is going on here, Mr. Ambassador, I'm asking you right now, and please file a criminal report immediately. And maybe then hand it over to yourself, so it's fair if you stand by what you said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u11	Thank you, Minister. Mr Bendl wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u12	That's smiling. You guys are reminding me of things that didn't happen for me, but you know, and we're gonna talk about this together in another interview, because the forests of the Czech Republic don't have a treaty to cover the resolution of legal disputes anymore. Yet you paid out last year, or the Forests of the Czech Republic, without having to... with the completion of the framework contract for the provision of legal services, so you paid out or paid out more than 50 million crowns, but this is a different case. Even you, if you have any suspicions, file a criminal report, I'm sure you've already done it. And if you didn't do it, then do it, if anything illegal happened there, that's okay, which is why I'm saying we need to check things out. The treaties you recall did not arise during the time of Minister Bendl's work, and Minister Bendl tried to deal with a number of things and it is verifiable. But you didn't answer, and you avoided the questions I asked here. I ask you: Forests of the Czech Republic brokered the business of Foresta SG, in its statutory bodies just before joining the Forests of the Czech Republic, worked the same person, you brokered the trade for more than two million, last year for 5.5 million. And it is not true what you say, Minister, that you do not know how much to sell this year's Forest SG or how much the Forests of the Czech Republic have committed themselves to contract, even though you did not give me the contract. But you know there's 200 grand in there. After all, it was also in presentation materials in the presence of my fellow Members from the Agricultural Committee, where the Forests of the Czech Republic presented their fabulous plan for future years. I mean, first of all, they want to increase the number of employees by three times over the course of three years, cut profits, and throw everything at church restitution. [[9.30 hours]] But what you did there. It is obvious that you want to sell through the Forest SG, and again I say, without a tender chosen firm, more or more. At least 200,000 cc's of wood. That means it's about CZK 11 million worth of business. Explain to me how it is possible - or it is not suspicious for you to say how you want to make transparent all those exchanges of people in individual important positions. By the way, I can only remember that we have a deputy at the State Land Office, a former border guard chief in Rozvadov. These are the technical forces that are joining us at the Department of Agriculture. But I'm going back to Mr. Srba. Please explain how this is possible. You said you'd be doing everything clean and that there would be no more mistakes. You brokered without a tender for the company, which, just before Mr. Srba joined the management of the Forests of the Czech Republic, the deal at this time in about CZK 16 million over the course of two years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u13	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u14	I was just saying where we're going with this trend when it comes to evaluating the volume of wood at the showroom auctions. I replied that we have a plan to do these services in house. Foresta is a company of private and our tests, which we do internally, which can do most precisely and best. We have an evaluation for that. So we will be happy to deal with possible other commercial entities, but they will also present the quality of their work, and I am waiting for the meeting to take place, but nevertheless in those tests that have been, Foresta came out best. That's what needs to be realized. Minister Bendle, through Mr President, I have chosen the people I have chosen through and in cooperation with the Director General of the Forests of the Czech Republic and the company that has given us expert expert opinions on the personal and professional profiles of those applicants for individual positions, I am simply standing. I'm able to document it in the numbers that the management that's there today works very well, and I'm very happy to compare the numbers in the next interpellation with what was going on with your actions and your predecessors. And those numbers are very interesting. I'm gonna go back to what I said here. We plan to do these things ourselves through our own experts within the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic. Foresta is doing it today because she has the best results, she has the know how that market came up with, and Foresta doesn't have the situation, like you said, 200,000 cc's, that's what's planned, but that doesn't mean that this year's reality is going to be able to be 100% fulfilled, because we don't know if there's gonna be enough wood to sell at those presentations, if we're gonna be able to sell it at all with regard to development. If there's a calamity, we have to adjust the mining plans. You know that very well. Those are things you can't say 100 percent today that they're gonna be like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u15	Thank you. Mr Bendl is reporting for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u16	Dear Minister, you say you don't know how much you'll sell through Forest SG if you have a contract. The forests of the Czech Republic have agreed with Foresta SG that they will supply them with at least 200,000 cc's of wood for sale. How do you not know? What are you coming from? Those are the words. But there's something else in your contract. And last year, you sold 109,000 cc's of wood through Forest SG, which is roughly CZK 5.5 million for Forest without a tender. At the same time, if you're saying you want to leave the system, when do you want to leave it? You say for the future. That's a real term-- that's five years from now, or ten years from now, or a month from now? So far you have a contract that you have written with Foresta SG, over the course of last year you have done nothing to make a - when you call it an exceptional - system of measuring the amount of wood sold so-called. standing up without bark. The forests of the Czech Republic are rich enough to acquire such a system. During last year, you could have already done what they do in the Military Forests and Farms. Minister Stropnický wrote to me that they simply had to issue a tender to the maximum of 16,000 cc's. So why is Minister Stropnický and Military Forests and Farms issuing a tender procedure and aware that crossing the two million trade mediation limit without a selection procedure is a problem, and does the management of the Forests of the Czech Republic consider it normal? Please demonstrate here that you have taken substantive steps to ensure that the Forests of the Czech Republic in more than a year's working cooperation with Foresta SG, to terminate the contract and at the same time set up the system that the Forests of the Czech Republic will actually do it themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u17	I thank you, Mr Member, and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone, in which case I'm done with the debate. I would like to ask Mr Bendl, what is the position that we will be voting on? Your opinion on the Minister's reply whether it is in agreement or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u18	You know, I think everyone has to make a picture of themselves. The Minister, when he got into office, he blamed everyone and said how it would all work better. As common sense finally came, common sense came to the Ministry of Agriculture and a man with experience and experience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u19	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. The debate is closed. Now you should only propose your position on which I will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u20	Yes, I'm on my way. I do not think that there is a need to submit a decision to the Chamber of Deputies on whether or not the Minister has erred. The Minister brokered the company's business without a tender for CZK 16 million. That's the whole result of his work at the Department of Agriculture. ,
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u21	Anyway, according to the Rules of Procedure, your position in the event that it is agreed, I will not vote on it. If it's disagreeable, I have to put it to a vote. So I need you to... [[The answer's off the microphone.]] We will not vote. That means you're proposing a favourable position. Thank you, and I'm done discussing this interpellation. We will now continue the program as I said. The meeting was attended by Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Antonín Sed interpellation on the reimbursement of cost analysis and payment of health insurance to SW Lab, s.r.o. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as press 449 and I am opening up a debate on this point and Mr Seďa is the first to report to this point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr First Deputy Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your written answers to my five questions regarding the reimbursement of cost analysis and payment of health insurance to SW Lab, s.r.o. I do not want to argue with you about the quality of the information of the Health Log server, which you are serious about, and I also do not want to compare the work of your established expert group at the Ministry of Finance with the activities of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics. I am only concerned about why your ministry did not use the services of this institute and chose a private company to analyse the costs and reimbursements of health insurance, because I believe that the same information would also be provided to you by this institution, whose activities are financed from the state budget. [[9.40 hours]] Based on your recommendation, I found this relevant analysis on the Ministry of Finance website for which your Ministry paid the company CZK 180,000 without value added tax. I do not want to question the scope or time-consumingness of this analysis, but I believe that 20 days' work on this analysis envisaged earlier preparation and information. The analysis entitled Improving transparency of financial flows and promoting the economic efficiency of health services provided in the public health insurance system is based on the provision of hospital care for the years 2009 to 2013 of all bodies providing acute bed care for all health insurance companies, based on payments for health care provided to that extent, comparing payment and cost parameters in the range of data transferred to health insurance companies and is unique in scope and structure of input data according to processors. Supposedly, all acute hospitalization care from primary data was processed in a uniform manner to the maximum extent possible by a database containing 9 million 400 thousand hospitalizations, over 100 million documents and about 500 million performance codes, medicines and materials over a period of five years. As part of the analysis, financial flows in the range of almost CZK 100 billion per year for care shown by 150 hospitals were mapped. Dear Minister, as you know, the analysis has four basic parts. First, an analysis of the volume and structure of health care provided by health insurance companies, hospitals and regions during 2009 to 2013, second, an analysis of the payment parameters in a uniform breakdown related to comparable care, third, a cost analysis of hospitalization at the level of standardised costs and fourth, a model of the projected amount of remuneration for 2014 and a comparison with the reference period. According to the processing company, the database of processed information used for this analysis is used primarily to optimise the public health insurance system, to make financial flows between health care providers and health insurance companies transparent, to promote the control and regulatory role of both your Ministry and the Ministry of Health, to increase the economic efficiency of the health care provided and to reduce unnecessary costs and to support the joint review activities of health insurance companies. Mr Vice-President of the Government, I do not wish to question the advantages or disadvantages of the contract concluded or the competence of the Ministry of Finance to carry out control of the activities and the management of health insurance companies. On the contrary, I support the efforts of your Ministry and Minister Svatopluk Němeček to make financing of Czech health care more transparent and efficient. Still, I want to ask you a few questions that are not clear to me from your answers to my questions. The first query goes to its own contract with SW Lab, s.r.o. The answer is that the company is still doing a job for the Department of Labour, which according to the contract is divided into nine months. I want to ask what specific activities and services this company is currently carrying out and will carry out in the course of the next months and whether it will be paid for this activity, or at what level and under which contract. In this context, I would like to remind you that at the end of the analysis, the company itself states that the process of defining and taking over large data sources, processing them and evaluating them in a very short period of time gives the prerequisites for extending the project in real time by data of other segments of healthcare. However, it is necessary to emphasise the need for the cultivation of these data and the correct interpretation of the required outputs. From this conclusion, I therefore consider that the analysis of the costs and reimbursements of health insurance will continue to be carried out. The second question is whether this analysis has been provided to the Ministry of Health, which is required by law to control directly managed health organizations, creates legislation and payment orders to ensure health care in our country. The third question is about providing data from health insurance companies to SW Lab, s.r.o. You state that the data is owned by the Ministry of Finance, but you also state that SW Lab, s.r.o. regulates the information system. I therefore want to make sure that this sensitive information cannot be misused. You're referring to Law No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, but I would also like to remind you of Act No. 101/2001 Coll., on the protection of personal data. So how is the protection of personal data and data from registers of health insurance companies ensured? Dear Vice-President of the Government, I want to believe that your actions in the area of controlling health care funding are not led by personal reasons and that both your established expert working groups and the Department of Health and Public Health Insurance of the Ministry of Finance are working independently and without political input. However, I must point out in this context that you are also in conflict of interest in the health sector, because according to the information published, your investment fund has already purchased 16 medical establishments through its subsidiary and intends to continue these investments. Also, your long-term criticism of the Minister of Health and his ministry, which, among other things, you have not avoided in answering my fifth question, shows that you have a personal interest in in infiltrating our country's healthcare funding environment. In conclusion, I would like to say that instead of personal disputes between you and Minister Němeček, it would be far more effective to proceed in control and in proposals to increase transparency and efficiency in the management of public funds in a coordinated and cooperative manner. Thank you for your additional answers, which you can also send me in writing at your discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u23	I thank you, Mr Member, and I ask if anyone is joining the debate. This is Vice Prime Minister Babiš. You have your word, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u24	Thank you, Mr President: Colleagues and colleagues, yesterday we discussed 4.5 hours of budget. [[Vice-President]] And yesterday, on the coalition, I said clearly once again that the health system is not transparent. So I'm really amused by this interview, because the MP is worried that for the first time as the Treasury Department, we've uncovered data that no one has uncovered. Many health market participants are writing to us, and I say that Mr Němeček has done nothing to ensure the transparency of health care. And I said it yesterday at the coalition. And that other insurance claims are unacceptable to me. Because only from raising the salaries and salaries in the state administration will 7 billion come to health care. And if we're not able to save 2 percent of the 250 billion and we made the mistake of canceling those hospital fees, I repeat, health care is not transparent to me. And I'm not alone. That's what Brusel says. So if the MP is worried that for 180 grand, we've gotten unique data, based on which we've made a press conference, where we've proven that pacemakers and other devices are overpriced, that they're being bought somewhere by up to 100 percent of the price, I'm sorry. Yes, I take care of health care because it's 250 billion, and the Treasury also has some sort of control role, given that I'm responsible for the budget. So it is a pity that the MP doesn't actually intersect the minister to tell us what he did there for the transparency. Maybe we don't know that Homolka was stealing hundreds of millions. That the European Union within the Health Corruption Report has told us who's in charge here, our health services. I don't know if they're making this up in Brussels. [[9.50 hours]] So, about the interpellation. I would repeat the answers I sent you, Mr. Ambassador. One. It is not true that the Ministry of Finance does not mention members of the expert committee in question, other media have already received this information, which is traceable. The members of the working committee are . Petr Sláma, Mgr Iva Bezděková, editor of the Medical Tribune, JUDr. Ondřej Dostál, Platform of health insurance workers, . Miroslav Vrána, ministerstvo of Finance, and Mgr Vojtěch, Ministry of Finance. This area is also covered by the Department of Health and Public Health Insurance of the Ministry of Finance. Two. As you said, that information is not accurate. We obtained data from health insurance companies at the request of the Ministry of Finance with the consent of these insurance companies, while all insurance companies were sufficiently informed that the data would be processed, exported from the National Reference Centre on the basis of Ing's power of attorney. Petr Sláma and . Lubomír Štěrba from SW Lab, s.r.o. It should be noted that SW Lab, s.r.o. has worked with this data for a long time as administrator of the National Reference Centre. However, only on the basis of the consent of health insurance companies could this data be exported from the National Reference Centre. However, the Ministry of Finance owns the data. It should also be noted that the anonymous data of health insurance companies are subject to Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, thus ultimately any entity has the right to dispose of them. So you're talking about my conflict of interest. So all I can tell you is that my fund's investment is clearly public remuneration - 26,000. koruna - for all alike. It's too bad we don't know the payments for all the health care jobs in the whole health care sector to compare the payments that are classified. You probably have a problem with transparency. Maybe the citizens would like to know what they're doing with health insurance. So any subject has the right to deal with them. On the edge it is possible to say that it is the personality of . Petr Sláma was a guarantee of serious quality data processing for health insurance companies. Three. The following software tools have been used: operating system Linux, PostgreSOL database, application server J2EE container Tomcat, which is free of charge and serves among others. as a standard for other J2EE containers, client environment - computer equipped with Internet browser compatible with Mozzila, Microsoft Internet Explorer version 5.5 and higher, Opera. The Adobe Acrobat Reader or other PDF files are then used to view the assemblies. User access is ensured based on the application for analysis of multidimensional data objects in OLAP technology. The information system is managed by SW Lab, s.r.o., which is part of the amount paid - 180 thousand. We paid for the crown. That's a really gigantic amount, isn't it? Within 250 billion. and not the transparency of our health care. The license to the program is then granted to the Ministry of Finance free of charge. Four. The question is, does the company work? Yes, the company is still doing a job for the Treasury. The initial analysis submitted can be downloaded from the Ministry of Finance's website, but it was only the beginning of the entire work. We are now in the stage of negotiations on the possibilities of using data outputs for all stakeholders, which we are working closely with SW Lab, s.r.o. again. Five. I cannot agree with your opinion, because according to the provisions of § 4 para. 1 so-called Competent act No. 2/1967 Coll. The Ministry of Finance is the central body of the state administration, among others. for public health insurance premiums, financial control, accounting and auditing. Moreover, as in Law No. 551/1991 Coll., on General Health Insurance, so in Act No. 280/1992 Coll., on branch insurance companies, there is a clear legal mandate of the Ministry of Finance to control the activities and the management of health insurance companies. I personally believe that the Ministry of Finance is even a better controller of the management of public health insurance funds, because it is more independent and does not find itself in conflict of interest as well as the Ministry of Health, which exercises control on one side, but on the other hand establishes a network of directly managed organizations, namely hospitals, which dispose of funds in the order of tens of billions of crowns. We recently had an audit in Brussels as hospitals handle funds. The audit found multiple expensive devices. We also criticized the instrument committee. Mr. Ambassador, I don't know if it's normal for you to have the instrument committee deciding on the location of the instruments, but they don't know how many hospitals they buy after that. You know, in the normal world of business, they would have done it by centrally shopping and getting the machines for ten percent cheaper. However, the Ministry of Finance is prepared to cooperate with the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Health Information and Statistics on the possible common use of the data concerned. This cooperation will be the subject of negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u25	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I'm registering a few factual remarks. The first is Mr Urban, then Mr Kalousek and others. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I don't want to talk about a possible conflict of interest here. I'd almost say I don't care if someone else does. But what bothers me is another thing. It bothers me when someone here in the coalition keeps saying - us and you, us and them. I think, Prime Minister, that as you are responsible for all the departments of other coalition partners, we - I mean social democracy - are responsible for yours. And I think we're the government. No, you're the government, and we're like in some opposition! We do it right, you do it wrong. We're saving, you're spending. We're looking for holes, you're stealing... That's not how this government works! Why do you say that? Then leave the government if you don't like the government so harshly! I don't think you have any other choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u27	Thank you. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I would like to say to the Minister that his remark provoked me to speak that perhaps the Ministry of Finance is more independent, because the Ministry of Health is setting up direct-controlled facilities. But we know, Minister, that you, too, are setting up a network of health facilities that belong to you. And you really don't realize the conflict of interest because of the information you get from your position as a competitor? You really don't realize that? I would understand if in that conflict of interest, where you're the Minister of Finance, you'd be much more restrained to the other ministries. But you're expanding your interest in data that you can logically use in your private business. And this is where the House should be very careful. And I think, whether it's biofuels, whether it's health care, whether it's a whole series of other cases, it's becoming more than obvious that in that famous statement of yours, that all stealing, for you, it's not the fundamental problem of the word stealing, that the word is a fundamental problem for you all. We're gonna have to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u29	Thank you. Mr Seďa and Mr Koubek are now making a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, I have a few comments. The first point concerns your relationship with Minister Svatopluk Němeček. I'm really sorry that the Minister isn't here, that he can't defend himself, and I'm not defending him. But on the other hand, what I said is true. I think that we should work in a coordinated manner in the government so that the health is really transparent and taxpayers' money is spent effectively. And I hope we agree on that. [[10.00 hours]] The second point concerns me. Yes, Mr Seďa has long been interested in health, efficiency and transparency. And I've been critical many times, I've performed many times. And I don't care about the 180,000, but I made it clear that I had three questions. Three questions that led to whether and for what contract, for what money your cooperation with SW Lab, s.r.o. continues. The second question was whether the Ministry of Health received this analysis and whether you, as Minister of Finance, would cooperate with the Ministry of Finance on the issues I was talking about. And the third question was the protection of personal data. That's what I think must be interested in all the insured people in this country. And I finally said that I am expecting and I hope that this will apply, that you will tell me that you will answer these three questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u31	Thank you. Mr Koubek is now making a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to go anywhere, of course, and he respects Mr Sedi's time and his written answers. But to Minister Babiš. Several times we've heard you say, "Cancel regulatory fees was a mistake." That's it. And that's all that's happening. So I would say that there may be a third, half of the people who have ever been through the representative corps, and we all have sometimes made a mistake in our positions as representatives, mayors or mayors. We admitted the mistake - and what did we do? We came to the council, we came to the council, and we said, "Friends, we made a mistake! I am giving a review of this resolution. It's normal! So you're just walking around crying and saying, "We made a mistake! We've canceled the regulatory fees. Minister, correct the mistake! What's stopping you? Stop crying and reinstate the regulatory fees! The increase that has now been published - in January plus 9 percent of people with practitioners, in February 16 percent, in March 18 percent - is clear numbers. Any manager, any good manager, would start to act on these numbers. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babish, stop crying and start working!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u33	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I'm registering two factual points. I just want to ask, are you applying with priority rights or with a point of fact, Mr. Vice Prime Minister? So I know. In fact, okay. So first, Mr Schwarz, then Mr Janulík and then you, Mr Vice Prime Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u34	Good noon, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I know you don't do that, but I think the Minister should answer for himself. But I'll try to answer the mayor's question. You know, it's not just about the minister, it's about our whole club. And we're just being decent about it, you know. We're trying to keep the coalition deal. By apologizing, and he said it right that it was a mistake, but that's all we're digging into because we're decent and we're keeping a coalition contract. That's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u35	Thank you. Now, Mr. Janulík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just put it back on the margo health care and the more global view that previous speaker Seďa was talking about what's being done or not doing what should, shouldn't, about the efficiency. Look at one global issue about efficiency. In all of Europe, most of the money in health care flows into the outpatient sphere, because logically, everyone will understand that in that ambulance it's cheaper than in the hospital. It just doesn't cost as much money as it does in the hospital. And this logic, of course, is applied by Western Europe or the developed world, which is why most of the funds collected from health insurance flow into ambulances. Not as much in the Czech Republic as our secretary would say - oh, no! It's just the opposite for us. And answer why you think that is. Then why can't we cure these things in the ambulances? And we can cure them! I'm a doctor, I know those colleagues. And why are we putting it all in the hospital? Well, because it's a much bigger business! Remember what happened in those 25 years, when I've been a part of that system for 30 years, and I remember when there were no insurance companies. The main problem here is the cost of our work! We have great health care, but why? Because doctors and nurses do it for dry nose! For God's sake, if you look at any action in the German tariff, the first largest amount is the cost of the doctor's work, the paramedic. In our country, it is the opposite. In our country, needles and threads are more expensive than the work of a neurosurgeon who is at the end of the price list. And that's the big problem! So the money goes into the material, and that's what the business's done. That's what's been going on for 25 years because there's companies here, and now they're shutting down half the hospices, and I don't know what their names are, B Braun, who was there with Rath, the managers all got five and a half years or what, because it's a gros. That's where the huge sums get lost, because we're in the hospital or the ambulances, we're at the end of the chain, and we're always pulling the shorter end of the rope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u37	Thank you. Now Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, with his point of fact. And Mr Nykl will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u38	Thank you, just a few words. To Mr. Urban's performance, to leave the government. Well, thanks for the suggestion. We'll think about it. About Mr. Koubka. I designed it yesterday at the coalition. So we're doing it. Yesterday, 4.5 hours I fought to maintain a deficit of 70 billion. To be fiscally responsible, to fulfil our commitments to the European Union. So I suggested it, but it didn't work. We're in a coalition, so I don't decide for myself. So that's it. So if there are proposals that will have a negative impact on the budget for state insured people in the next 13 to 20 billion years, then logically I am defending it and logically trying to make it transparent for health care. And I'm asking you to talk about a conflict of interest so we can see the payments! Who's paying? Why is this a big secret? How do you make a payment decree, how are the return bonuses? How's the hospital running? It's all traceable. So I don't know what we're talking about. I thought there was an interest in the Czech Republic - Mr Kalousek always talking about the structural deficit, and I want to reduce it, too, and of course health is also part of that budget. So I just want the citizens to know what they're paying for health insurance and where the money is, 250 billion. Every year, it's flowing. And again, they're leaking non-transparentally. Not transparently. And I'm discussing this with Mr. Němeček, and he says he's going to take action, so we're still debating, but the result isn't even there yet. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u39	Thank you. Now, with Mr Nykl's factual comment, Mr Hovorka will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u40	Good morning. I would reply to Mr Urban, through the President, why we refer to health, although we are coalition partners. Because social democracy and the ANO movement have a slightly different view of the state of health. When your minister and Prime Minister perform, they always say everything's stable in the health department. You know what we did on the health committee? There was a working group for broken Czech health care, so look at the difference. You say stabilized, we smashed. Why is that? What's going on in health care? We're breaking the labor code. Europe has given us ten years to work out overtime. Everything's broken and we say it's good. We've got a broken-down sister education system, doctors. We have an uncreated DRG system that has been functional in the world for 20 years, and in the Czech Republic after ten years we say that we are starting a restart. It's gonna take five years! You can't make hospital payments without him. That's another point. We have the most expensive cardiovascular materials. I, as a cardiologist, confirm that there are 50 percent cheaper heart instruments in Germany than in the Czech Republic. I mean, that's completely ridiculous! On the contrary, we have the cheapest drugs that will allow reexports. There's a drug deal! That's stable health? We have European audits on the drawing of European funds. They all showed up at the auction! What do you want to say? Is that stabilized? Charges! It's an interesting issue, but we didn't get a chance to comment on them in the initial coalition negotiations, otherwise there wouldn't be a coalition. Now we know that hospitalization fees, I keep saying it here, not regulatory, but hospitalization fees are in Germany, Austria, it's a subject that can be opened if social democracy agrees. Furthermore, we need healthy common sense within the framework of, for example, instrument committees, where the committees are actually set up, but the principle of their work is not at all correct. [[Attention on time.]] That's what I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u41	Thank you. Now, with Mr Hovorka's point of fact, then President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to say that an analysis of data in the health sector is necessary, necessary. We can increase payments for state insured people, since 1993 increased from 17 to 60 billion crowns today, but this obviously has its limits. The second thing is to look for possible savings. To date, we do not have regulation of prices and reimbursement of medical devices, most medicines, because medicines that are delivered to hospitals like hospital medicines or central medicines are not regulated at all. That's just the key to non-transparency. The list of performances contains performances that do not have really set prices for the work of doctors, they do not really have the price of devices, the price of medical devices, the price of medicines. The SAO did a check-up at four faculty hospitals. He found that some hospitals were buying the same drugs by 100 percent more than others. These are all things that need to be corrected, and that is what analysis is for. It is necessary to find savings in the system, then it is possible to add money to keep the system up with the system abroad. But I think the key really is transparency, because the payment decree is now, but according to the payment decree, only 25% of contractual relationships concluded are governed. This means 75 per cent is closed outside the payment order and there are performances that are not even in the performance list. They are special performances of health insurance companies, which actually have these insurance companies contracted with a medical facility. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] These things have to be set, they have to be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u43	Thank you. Now, President Kalousek, Mr Kučera will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u44	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, I would like to say to the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you guys are really cute. You here with a serious face said how you want to reduce the structural deficit. So far, you've done nothing but raise it twice. In 2014 compared to 2013 and 2015 compared to 2014. I'm based on the official finance department numbers. You are equally serious in saying that you want to save, while increasing the cost of operating expenditure for the state. With an equally serious face, you promised to collect tens of billions more. When I deduct the increase in GDP and consumption, the efficiency of tax collection decreases and the cost of tax administration rises. You're just doing the opposite of what you're saying here with a serious face. Excuse me, Minister, it's clearly in your blood. Just the Great October Socialist Revolution wasn't in October, but in November, Lenin wasn't named Lenin, but Uljanov, Stalin wasn't named Stalin, but Džugašvili, and so it's completely with everything you're saying here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u45	Now, then, Mr Kučera. [[A Member of Krakora is reporting for the floor.]] You're in order, there's more of you in order, so it's your turn. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would more or less follow up on the words of my colleague and the previous speaker, President Kalousek. She gave the answer and the explanation more or less in Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš's speech. I must confess that this is the first time I have applauded Minister Babiš after two years because he finally said a beautiful sentence that is such a personification of this coalition. He said, "We're acting, but there are no results." Minister, write this down in your office and frame it: We are acting, the results are not any.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u47	Thank you. Now, Mr Urban, after him, Mr Krákora. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u48	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, perhaps just a response to Mr Nykl. I imagine the national team and his efforts to prove something in a completely different way. The problems are, I could talk about your problems at the Ministry of Transport with no use, at the Ministry of Regional Development etc. But those are the problems that representatives of Sparta and Slavia in the national team are supposed to solve in the cabin, and not that they are running around the world telling how the other, the left bek, how it plays badly and thanks to that we have no results. You can't do that. This way no national team will achieve any result. That's my point. So you play for your Agrofert, respectively. Yes, but not for the national team at all. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u49	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Krákora, Mr Seďa will be prepared with his point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u50	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are, of course, dramatizing sometimes. There are health problems, operational, economic problems, like other resorts. We can look into other resorts and the issue will be repeated. I think that Czech health services have achieved significant success over the last 20 years. Yesterday we learned that we were the first in neonatal mortality, we're to the third place in infant mortality, we have excellent results in infant mortality, transplant programs, cardiology care. Of course, I agree with some of the things Mr Babiš says here, because shortcomings are and should be addressed, but they are not only in the Health Department, but they are also in other departments. That's what we're here to deal with, to be dealt with by the government. Otherwise, I wanted to say, for example, about the payment of health care or health insurance. After all, the 845 CZK is a ridiculous amount, which is why we propose an increase. Health insurance companies, there are 5.5 million of them, i.e. half the population, but they use 70 percent of care, so probably the increase should also be there. You know that businessmen pay around a thousand crowns, employees around nineteen hundred and entrepreneurs between two and three thousand, but state insured 845 CZK. So we need to think about these things and deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u51	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I agree with the previous speakers and colleagues, but I personally think that the interpelation has a completely different touch and maybe who has the courage to give a written interview to the Minister of Health on this matter and we can talk about health from A to Z. But I'd like to say, here's the coalition government, and the coalition government should be dealing with problems. There are a lot of problems in different departments, and I think it's the responsibility of this government because this government didn't create the problems. We inherited the problems. On the second point, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance and the First Deputy Prime Minister for the third time to tell me that he will answer this microphone in writing to make sure that I get the answers to three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u53	Thank you. I'm registering further factual remarks. The first is Mr Heger, then Mr Vyzula and then Mr Vice Prime Minister Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u54	Thank you for the floor. The debate came to a very destructive stage because questions began about the unfortunate analysis from the Ministry of Finance, which is being used again today, as were the audits used in hospitals. Not for something to go wrong in health care, but for something to go wrong. There are things that are really difficult in health care and are not transparent, but they need to be gradually improved, and there are a number of other analyses available. Viewing the whole system is difficult, but the analysis that was presented as "finally there is some first analysis that will allow it to be seen in health care" did almost nothing but add what people from abroad call cemetery data. We just have a bunch of tables, cemeteries of data, and no information that could serve as information for crucial decision-making. That's not in the analysis, and the Treasury itself said that there were no conclusions on the analysis. And in the end, the Minister Němeček, who said yes, said that hospitals are paid unevenly, everyone knows that for ten twenty years and we are all trying to fight it in some way. The analysis was published in February I suspect or in one of the winter months. I must stand up for Minister Babiš - he made it available to the Ministry of Health because it is public, but it was made in the autumn of last year. And since then, nothing has happened to move the health department forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u55	Thank you. Now, Mr Vyzula and after him, Vice Prime Minister Babiš, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like, through Mr President, to reply to Mr Urban for accusing Mr Nykl here of playing for Agrofert and not for the national team. I'm well aware that we're just playing a national team. He doesn't listen to me, but he doesn't mind. And I would love to play for the national team, and we have absolutely no interest in presenting the problems that are in the coalition to present them publicly. We deal with them on the Health Committee, which is the thing. The way I see it, it's the platform where we should agree on how we're going to move on to health care! And when we propose things that would lead to transparency, such as the question of merging insurance companies, which is absolutely essential, there is big money, or the pricing of medicines, the minister will speak out and say: I am fundamentally, fundamentally, fundamentally opposed! For no reason at all. So that's the Nationals game? Is this your idea of a Nationals game? I didn't! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u57	Thank you. Now Vice Prime Minister Babiš, followed by Mr Svoboda and Mr Laudát. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To Mr. Urban, the national team. Fine. And Mr. Seďa is the top 09? Or ODS? Or who's he really for? Why is Mr. Seďa intersecting me here? Why doesn't he come to the Treasury? I'll take care of him. We'll show him everything. Why are you intersecting me here when we're a national team? Says Mr. Urban, although I don't know if he and Kalousek are on that national team by chance, still in the Tuscan game. [[Fun.]] So what are we talking about here? I have done statistics by intersecting our Members, and I do not feel that they would intersect our coalition partners. If we're a national team then come, Mr. Seďa, I'll show you everything and answer you a hundred times. I'll show you the data, all of them. I'd like that. The results of the negotiations that somebody here has cut short, they're not. Yes. Mr. Němeček and I haven't had the results yet. They're not. But our results are, and Mr. Kalousek will keep repeating it here. Well, I'd like to repeat the results again. In 2014, we reduced the deficit by 35 billion compared to the planned one. For the first time since 1997, we've reduced our debt by absolutely 19 billion. And we chose 31.5 billion. more in taxes and we plan to withdraw by 35 billion for next year. more in taxes. And I also fought yesterday to make sure there wasn't a deficit of 85, but he was 70. And that's what I did. Because I repeat again - health care, state insurance - yes, we've already given 4.2 once, with a raise of 7 and now we want 4.2 billion again. And I say that's a 250 billion problem. Save 2 per cent? That's 5 billion. That's what we want. And Mr. Heger. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u59	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u60	I'm just saying, it's a shame we haven't dealt with Homolka in the past, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u61	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Svoboda, Mr Laudát, will now be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very fond of hearing about Nationals. I'm glad we have a Nationals. That's the coalition. And so I feel like some kind of backup that's in the background, and in the moment, if Nationals failed, I'd be allowed on the field, too. But the fact is, Nationals are building voters. So when they build it, they want results from it. They don't give a damn how Nationals played two years ago, whether there were bad players, whether they stole everything or dug it all up wrong. They're interested in how the current Nationals are playing. And that's what I'm interested in as an alternate, how he plays, how he scores, and if he scores. Now, I have to say, aside from Nationals saying they kicked you wrong in front of him, he doesn't score any goals. I don't see any results. I don't see them in health care - there I see cancelled fees and bad decrees and no decisions on how to deal with overtime doctors, and he could say a lot of things. I've been doing health care for years, so I can see all these exercises. But I don't see any results in traffic anywhere else. It's just every time I ask you anything, I know they played it wrong in front of us. I didn't play it, I'm here now as a new understudy, and I want the results to be, and when someone kicks wrong, I want them to stop.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u63	Thank you. Now, Mr Laudát, Mr Seďa will be prepared with a factual remark. And then I have a large number of factual remarks, so we'll continue in order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. First of all, I would ask the coalition not to argue so much that it happens not to end prematurely, because part of the electorate has given you votes, so let them enjoy you! [[A round of applause for Members of the TOP 09 and the Mayors.]] Because without seeing in quotes the results you have, unfortunately, the opinion of what kind of lunatics run this country with Mr. Babiš, and I say deliberately led by Mr. Babiš, must be enjoyed by his constituents to understand that it will touch them very unpleasantly. However, I understand that Mr Sed interpellation was systemic and concerned a conflict of interest. Am I saying that right? I think that this is indeed a systemic problem that is unprecedented to the west of our Republic, and I think it really is up to the government to quickly remove this problem. I believe that if the European Commission is self-righteous, sooner or later it will ban or stop funding for various programmes, because this is not the kind of thing that was here. To Mr. Vyzula. I believe, through Mr President, that you then - I believe it was you who tried to plant this amendment from the lobbyists, so remain silent until the end of the parliamentary term. You're doing Prime Minister Babiš a bear's service. In the past period, there was this piece of shit here, too, and it did it for the solar barons. After they extract this republic - both public and private finance, we would still pay them to liquidate solar panels. There was one of those good guys, too. [[Messenger. He was with you in the coalition!]] No, as far as I know, he got off. At the time he was no longer in the coalition, he defected. And another one. Of course, what wonders about social democracy? It's a classic dog wag. There's chaos at the Treasury Department, where the essential materials go when the Minister pulls his heels out of the Ministry, probably behind his back, or maybe with his knowledge, that's all the worse. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, you're out of time, too.]] Then what are you wondering? Classic dog wriggling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u65	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Seďa. [[Responsive and reminiscent of Mr Jandak.]] I see you, Ambassador Jandák. You're in line. It's your turn, believe me, I've got you written down. Mr. Pavera will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll be very brief. I only have three notes. The first one - I don't even dig in the ODS jersey or the TOP 09 jersey. Since November 1989, I've been kicking for social democracy. Second comment - I play for national team Czech Republic. And please, Mr Vice-President, do not deny me the right to interpel any member of the government, including ours. Third thing - thank you for your invitation to the Ministry of Finance. So I'm gonna go get those three answers for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u67	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Pavera and with a point of fact, Mrs Marková will be prepared. [[Once again, Mr Jandak is mentioned.]] I actually see you, Mr. Ambassador, but I have to follow the order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u68	Have a nice morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to say and speak on the communication from Minister Babiš on the high collection of taxes. From the experience we have in cities and municipalities, I can say that the fall in taxes in municipalities is minus 13 percent. So, Minister, don't tell me you're picking something right. Maybe it'll get better. Then I'd like to apologize very much. Unfortunately, we have to stop all investments so far and we can't deal with what we wanted. It's just life, and that's how it works. Taxes aren't collected the way you promised. And as for health care, I think health care is a great opportunity for interesting business. 250 billion is 250 billion. You know that Minister Babiš also buys clinics. Just when someone is pointing out that public hospitals are poorly managed and that they are well managed by private hospitals, they should also say that private hospitals only run those fields that make good money. And as for other things, because I don't have much time left, I'm going back to my diabetic leg. It is your Members, Minister, who have stopped the treatment of diabetic feet using stem cells so far. I know there are hundreds of patients waiting at the faculty hospital to be treated. At the hospital, they can treat up to two patients a month, and they need to do ten times as many. So please try to find a solution and support the financing of diabetic feet using stem cells. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Soňa Marková. Mr. Leoš Heger will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u70	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I couldn't take it anymore. I would like to make a few points. I am very surprised by the development of the debate on this interpelation, because we are witnessing the kicking of the ankles within the coalition live. I hope that the voters of the government coalition are watching above all, because this is really bad news for citizens, for voters. They lured you to some populist promises such as: We will stabilize Czech health care, increase payments for state insured people, cancel fees etc. - so give us your votes and forget it. We'll do whatever we want, we won't keep our promises. On the contrary, what was presented here on Monday during the hearing of the law, we will do at the head of the ANO movement what the right-wing previous governments failed to do or were not allowed to do. We're gonna raise patients' involvement, we're gonna introduce health care only for the wealthy, and you're gonna come back to the polls, because you have to give us your votes, because if someone promises something three times, it's like they're gonna give it to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u71	Thank you, Mrs Marková. Good morning. Another duly applied for is Mr Heger. Mr. Jandák, I'm registering. Right after Mr Heger's turn. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u72	I'm gonna change the subject a little bit, because the health debate is extensive, and I'm gonna put it back on a personal level, because Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš here thought I wasn't doing anything with Homolka. And it's not the first time I've been here in a very unfair way. I have to respond to that. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I was the minister who called off Director Dbalý. It's really not my fault that there were a lot of police investigations that were postponed and not dragged to the end. You also attacked me as director of the faculty hospital in Hradec Králové and used an audit, which has already been mentioned here, even personally against me. You were talking about a 150 million fine that's gonna hit the hospital. Then suddenly it turned out to be only $5 million from your ministry, but in the end it turned out in the audit that it was clearly stated that faculty hospitals were shopping perfectly well under the rules. So please, you use different methods, but don't at least use me. Now that you're using the CT reporters to point out what they're saying, and based on that, we've got another hint, you said yourself that in the group that analyzes health care, there's one of the sharpest investigative journalists in the Medical Tribune, Mrs. Iva BezdBezděková, so that you don't complain about her again, like you complained about those CT reporters when it came to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u73	Thank you. Now, Mr Jandák, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, don't beat yourself up around here since we've got it together and let's not cry about it. We're here to find a solution. What is the main issue in this country? Always about the money we're gonna talk about. I want to ask you as a layman, an MP who doesn't understand health, but one and one are two, that's sacred to me. Now take one thing - you're looking for billions. You accuse one minister, the minister defends himself, but where does the money lie? And I'm asking, maybe stupid, but I'm asking why this tiny republic has so many health insurance companies. That everyone would offer something hugely rich for the citizens? No. They all offer the same and some even less. Why, like some other civilized European countries, do we not have one health insurance company? Billions of operating expenses would be saved. It's true, isn't it? It is. So that's my solution guide, and that's what it takes to get the money. Let's try to have some fun or at least think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u75	I thank Mr Jandák for his speech and for his education of young people at the gallery. Another duly registered member is Mr Jakubčík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. After that, Mr Leoš Heger will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u76	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance, I think you should probably find a little better advisor, because I'm going back a little bit when you're in the House to the law on budgetary determination of taxes for the county, you know what I've heard? Do you know why Pilsen County isn't in debt, why they built the most expensive tram depot in the world and the most expensive theatre? Well, because there was the largest base of ODS and CSSD and they had wide elbows and you made the best coefficient. I think your advisors have made a slight mistake because the Plzeň Region is not in debt, yes, because it is well managed. The most expensive tram depot - you know, it's not a tram depot, it's a bus depot and it's built by the city of Plzeň, not the Plzeň Region. The most expensive theatre, again, was built by the town of Plzeň, not the Plzeň Region, and the city of Plzeň built a theatre with no direct means of state. [[10.40 hours]] The largest base of ODS and ČSSD in the Pilsen Region has never been a coalition or base of ODS or ČSSD. There was always only ODS in the coalition with someone, possibly ČSSD either alone or in the coalition, but never with ODS. And make the best coefficient -- I don't know, I don't know how you can get the county to do its best coefficient. That's why I think that what you've read to us here about health care, and your thoughts on health care, if you have the same advisors you had on this bill, I think you should exchange them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u77	I thank Mr Jakubčík. With another factual remark, Mr Leoš Heger, followed by Mr Svoboda, with a factual remark, Mrs Marková. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u78	I'll return it from the depot in Pilsen to health care. I am speaking for the last time, but I have to ask Mr Jandák through the management meeting: Mr Member, when you plan to have only one insurance company in the ČSSD, I assume it will be the VZP because it is the largest. I just want to ask if you're gonna have that VZP that was shopping for IZIP and it was in big trouble, or if you're gonna have that VZP that's working pretty well right now. Which of the two you're gonna put in that government statement, so we're clear on what we're supposed to be prepared for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u79	Thank you and I ask the Members not to shout at each other. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, then Mrs Marková, with a point of fact, followed by Vice-President Bartošek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u80	Thank you for the floor. I always like to listen to Mr Jandák because I always have a good time. There's one thing I'd like to say that's serious, but it's not funny. We're still dealing with substitute issues here at the moment. We're discussing whether there's gonna be one insurance company or six. We don't care that the insurance company isn't an insurance company, that it's a parafiscal tax that works the way it's worked since Bismarck, who introduced this kind of insurance. We're not discussing principled things. If we open up a room for real private insurance. We're not discussing whether we're gonna stop dealing with overtime issues with a trick or some crooked deal, and we're gonna try to figure it out for real, because if we don't do the essentials, we can argue about the little things over and over again. And that's with the health department all the time. The moment things start to work out, they move on to a little problem, they all argue about it, eventually they don't solve it, or something changes, and it doesn't do anything about it. If there's no one here who's gonna solve the health policy of the country, we're not gonna get anywhere. All this talk that's been going on in here, I've been hearing it for 20 years. It's still about the same little things, and no one has the courage to touch the principle and start building health care from scratch, and that's what Nationals should do in any form. Not to argue about whether it's better to play left foot or right foot. I can play both.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u81	I thank Mr Svoboda, who wants to take it from the ground. Now, Mrs Soňa Marková, with her point of fact. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u82	Thank you for the floor. One more comment. I am very pleased that one health insurance company is opening up here, because KSČM has had one health insurance company in the program since 2006, so I am glad that this is where it starts to talk. The second thing is, I just want to remind you a little bit about why there's no money left in the health sector. Why she's missing, too. Except what the Vice Prime Minister said. It is also missing because previous governments, Topolánkův and Nečasův, basically saved money on health care by freezing payments for state insured persons. That they've put up the richest income. That they raised the VAT, so the health service lost billions. They have done everything in their power to give the impression that there is no money in the health sector, so as to enable people to pay as much for health care as possible. That, Mr Vice Prime Minister, is one of the reasons why the situation needs to be recovered at this point in time in the area of increasing payments for state insured persons. I'm not questioning the need to save money, but on the other hand, these things are just true. Over the years that the right-wing coalition ruled, health care lost 30 to 40 billion. The koruna and you just need to return to the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u83	Thank you, Mrs Marková. Now Vice-President Bartošek, followed by Mr Jandák. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I signed up with a point of fact because I couldn't respond before because I was in charge of the meeting. In any case, I would like to respond not to the health sector, but to the fact that it has been called into question or asked why Mr Seďa is intersecting the Minister, albeit coalition. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, it's just because it's his right. Just because we live in democracy and we can discuss whatever we want. But I refuse to take the right to ask what we are interested in, ministers, even though they are coalition. I simply refuse to question these democratic principles here in the House. For me personally, this is completely unacceptable. I simply reject it, and I stand by Mr Sed's side, because it is his full right, and it belongs in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u85	I thank Vice-President Bartošek. Mr Jandak, Mr Svoboda, followed by Mr Jandák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u86	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, I'll be a little low ground. It's not about democracy. But through the President towards Mr Svoboda. Ambassador, I would have signed everything you said here. I'm just curious about one thing. Eight years you've been with the government, ODS, Top, Right. Why didn't you start the discussion? You've been silent until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u87	I thank Mr Jandák. Mr Svoboda, with a factual point, followed by Mr Hovorka and Mr Vyzula. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u88	Thank you. Your way first to Mr Jandák. I wasn't even in ODS or government, and my voice still sounds the same. I have to say, it's not true that the ODS isn't trying to make any changes. And that is what - that is why I really signed up, that is for colleague Marková through Mr President. If we talk about problems of sorts, such as one insurance company or five insurance companies, and we do not go to the principle, we will end up as America has now done with Obamův's reform. Look at the state insurance costs now, that prices jumped up there rocketically and that it just doesn't work. Their system, which had many mistakes and shortcomings, suddenly became really expensive. It costs a hundred times more in the area of insured people who went into insurance, to Medicare and Medicaid than it normally stands. The drugs are put in the most expensive, everything's more expensive. And that's what I'm saying. If we don't touch the principle and we don't deal with it systemically, nothing's gonna change. And one insurance company, or fifteen insurance companies, that's probably more traffic costs, but nothing else. Nothing else. And that's not decisive. It's three percent of the total. Three percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u89	I thank Mr Svoboda. With another factual remark, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, after whom Mr Vyzula, Mr Kořenek, followed by Mrs Marková. Then it's almost 11:00. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u90	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would only be a little more careful about the US system, because when the Chamber of Deputies started 2006, the costs of the American health system before Obamův's reform were 13 percent of GDP and gradually by 2010 when it tried to promote the transformation of health insurance companies into public limited companies, their privatisation and the privatisation of health facilities, the costs actually increased to 16 percent in America and it turned out that the system is unsustainable. That's why President Obama tried to solve the system. The 800 health insurance system that's in America. We all know how it works. When health insurance inspection doctors are motivated not to pay for health care. [[10.50 hours]] You have 50 million Američan who have no insurance at all, and yet the system is the most expensive and ligating the costs of the American economy. That's why they decided to deal with it in America. That the solution is half, half, that's not the reason it's in today's condition. But I definitely don't think we should be lecturing there. Our system isn't bad. But the system must remove the defects it has. This means pricing, equality in payments for medical facilities, and it is also not possible to do what was done, that a number of activities took place in external services, to external private services, which received significantly higher remuneration than they were in the original medical facilities. This is privatization of dialysis, privatization of laboratories, etc., etc. Why have there been a system of subsidiaries on Homolka since 2008? Nobody cared. Homolka had the biggest payments, and still enough to make hundreds of millions of money to go to subsidiaries and tax havens, and nobody cared. [[Time warning]] So here you have to look at this and deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u91	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another registered comment is Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, in fact, to kind of stress the words that the professor of Svoboda said here. I respect him as much as I do as a person, as a doctor, and I think he said it right, what wasn't really said here in these emotions. Indeed, our health care needs a basic strategy that no one has been able to develop in 25 years. There were various strategies like "just like," there's a lot of talk about it - so let's go! Let's make it. But it must be across, it is not a question of coalition, it must also be a question of opposition. We all have to do it together. Let's not talk about it, please, just and let's make it. Because otherwise, people like Mr Laudát - who are not here and who, through Mr President... I have to tell him that what I'm accused of, lobbying for pharmaceutical companies, he didn't understand at all. Because it's not lobbying for pharmaceutical companies, but it's about strengthening the patient's rights to have a basic and fully-paid drug at his disposal. And this is supposed to be lobbying for pharmaceutical companies! Thank you. And I have to say, I don't take his lesson of not speaking to heart.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u93	I thank Mr Vyzula. With another factual remark, Mr Kořenek, Mrs Marková, after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u94	Thank you for the floor. I just want to say that maybe something rotten is in our state, I don't want to say another, because I remember when we were still communicating with the hospital management, some hospitals had and still have very different payments. Hospitals that belonged to the regions often face enormous financial problems - and they are on the periphery. There are different payment prices and other and other things that we can talk about. And the more we tried to change that, the worse it got. So the health problem has been going on since the beginning, sometime since 1998, when the payments were made. Last year, thanks to Minister Němeček, and for that I thank him, the system was stabilized and we as a hospital, which clearly proved that in recent years it had been damaged by $100 million in payments, were paid for its work. But still, when I was looking and it's me - on one side I'm very glad that The Zlín Region is so very healthy because we have the lowest costs for insured people and for treatment against others. But we're still paying for being on the other side of the Republic. So I think there's clearly a need to make real payments here. Hospitals that save and are efficient and economic, so that they can benefit from it. Where, unfortunately, it doesn't work to be called to the responsibility of management. And that's the founder's thing. But what hasn't worked here for years, I'm afraid no minister can fix it in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u95	Thank you, Mr Kořenek. With another factual remark, Mrs Marková. Please, madam. After that, Mr Koskuba and Mr Bendl, who will probably be the last, as the eleventh hour is approaching. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u96	Once again, I'd like to remind you of one important thing. The difference between the previous parliamentary periods when the right-wing coalition was in charge here, and today's situation is that TOP 09 and ODS have clearly declared in their electoral programme what they want in the health sector. They wanted to increase the involvement of patients, leading their reform actions to this matter. The voters gave them their vote, and they wrote it clearly. The difference is that the current government coalition has turned into a populist robe and is now heading towards the right-wing one that we had previously rejected. I'm afraid so. All the discussions that took place here, I note on Tuesday, not Monday, as I said earlier, clearly suggested here. So that's the difference. Because TOP 09 and ODS didn't lie to voters. They said they didn't want solidarity health care, that they only wanted health care for the rich, that they wanted to introduce the highest possible fees, above-standards, etc., etc. Voters gave them their vote. You, the current government coalition, have spoken differently than you do now. That's the big problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u97	Thank you, Mrs Marková. Another point of fact, Mr Koskuba, followed by Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sincerely grateful that you are so committed to health issues. 'Cause in four years' time, I understand, in the House, that this is one of the disciplines that everyone really understands. And I'm not denouncing anything that's been said here. I'll even admit that what the Professor of Svoboda has said here is absolutely true. We have to change the necessary system as a whole. And I'm not even attacking Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister. But when they talk about black holes, it's not just the economy. It's the health service, as I've said it repeatedly, like every coin has two sides. There's health care on one, and there's the patient on the other. And since you're all politicians, let's face it, although it's going to be very unpopular, that the side where the patient is doesn't like to touch before the election. However, ladies and gentlemen, the main problem of current health care, which I am desperately trying to draw attention to, and has been dragging on since 1995, 2005 or 2004, is the lack of medical personnel. I said it here too. We've changed the medical education system, we've changed the nurses' education system. And if we don't focus on this seeming little thing, I'm afraid within a year, within two we won't have a whole lot to deal with, because our patients won't have anyone to treat. I'll be grateful if you take that into account. That's all, and have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u99	I thank Mr Koskuba. The last point, with a factual point, is Mr Bendl, then it will be 11 hours and I will have to interrupt the interpellation. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u100	Thank you for the floor. I must say to Margo, Mrs Marková, that the ODS has never opposed solidarity within the health sector, on the contrary. We have said that in order to contribute and be able to treat severe diseases whose costs are constantly rising, it is necessary that, if we are to treat cancer in a simplified way, we need to contribute to the flu. [[11.00 hours]] Because Mr Jandák is right when he says that it is primarily about money. Everyone knows that the amount of money is limited, and that if one doesn't have motivation in the system to live healthy, to behave rationally, and so on, then it will simply be wasted, and that waste will lead people to start lining up for doctors, to start lining up for surgeries and so on. After all, what is happening, for example, in Sweden, which has been often chased around in the past. And it is not true that we would not have answered the debate, as Mr Jandák said. On the contrary. The Prime Minister here says it was a mistake to cancel the charges. This was one of the measures to prevent overuse of health care, where there is no need, where waste is being wasted, and on the contrary, it has hindered us from having to treat severe diseases, not wasted. I think what you're doing, and that's a mistake, you refuse to talk about it. President Vyzula will confirm that when there were discussions on the concept of Czech health care on the Health Committee, there were about three Members, I have a feeling. That was the great interest in discussing which way to go and where to introduce the motivation and the unpopular measures, because it is the only open road to tell people openly: it is necessary to save so that we can have on things that are more important and that a normal person can never spare himself in life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-001-138.u101	I thank Mr Bendl. This was the last speech in writing to the members of the government. I am therefore interrupting Mr Sedi's interpellation, which will continue in the next term, and ending in writing with the members of the Government. I remind you, after the written interpelations, we have firmly classified points 140, 73, 74 and 85. At 11.40 we have a fixed point 86 and at 12.45 we should focus on points 113 and 114. Now we're going to proceed with point 140, which is
