ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-014-035.u1	35. Mr Petr Fiala's proposal and others for the law amending Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, as amended /German press 146/ - first reading Tuesday, 17. 6. this proposal was interrupted in the general debate at the 10th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I remind you that the Government's position has been delivered as House press 146/1. I now ask that Mr Petr Fiala and Mr Václav Votava take the position at the rapporteur's table. I first ask Mr Fiala as a representative of the plaintiffs if he is interested in opening the procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-014-035.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am interested in the opening word, among other things, because I tabled this proposal on behalf of the Civil Democratic Party last April. As the Vice-President of the House was said here, in mid-June, there was a heated debate and the debate was then interrupted, and today, after so long, we are going back to the proposal. So I consider it useful to remind you, after all, of what its essence is and why we want to strengthen the independence of the so-called financial intelligence, the Financial Analytical Service, the FAO, as they say in short, at the Ministry of Finance. The long time that has passed since we started discussing the proposal is, of course, negative and does not seem too helpful to the opposition's proposals. On the other hand, it was helpful that perhaps many of you realized more about how timely the proposal was and how much we needed it. It also has a general dimension, because we are in a situation where the state is increasingly controlling us, from street cameras, in stores, through wiretaps that become a common part of our lives, to perhaps a new need to prove how they acquired property, etc. However, with the increase in the powers of the control and security authorities, with the increase in authority that is sometimes questionable in itself, the control of these authorities must also be strengthened, so the control of the controllers must be strengthened, because democracy cannot allow an individual or a group to take advantage of the control activity or exploit it against others. Therefore, we want to strengthen the control of the independence of the FAO, the Financial Analysis Service, on the management of the Ministry of the Interior. Of course, the Minister of Finance has access to key information, under whose control the department that monitors events and cash flows in the Czech economy and politics falls, and this may also be a problem in the long term because the current Minister of Finance finds himself in a permanent conflict of interest with its activities. And that is another reason why we want the Director of the Financial Analytical Service to appoint and refer to the government as a collective body, on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, of course. Furthermore, we want to create a separate supervisory body in the Chamber of Deputies for the supervision of FAO activities, as is the case with the intelligence services, such as the BIS or Military Intelligence. Although the proposal also has an up-to-date dimension, and although it can help the current Minister of Finance not to suspect that he can use the information he receives in a special way, I would like to remind you that this is not a special proposal that the Civil Democratic Party has already submitted a similar proposal in the past period and that only because of the collapse of the government and the dissolution of the House has failed to discuss it. So it's not the first time we've dealt with this. It's not a purpose step, it's a system change that we think is right. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support our proposal, and I ask you to release him until further reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-014-035.u3	I thank Mr Fial, the representatives of the appellants, and now I ask the rapporteur to speak. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-014-035.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, members of the Government, I would like to inform you first of all that the Committee on Budgets, on 28 January of this year, by its resolution 189, has appointed a subcommittee on state assets, liabilities and activities of the Financial Analytical Service. I was talking here because we are at interrupted first reading, so when we were discussing the first reading last time, I was talking here about the fact that this subcommittee has already worked in the past within the budget committee, then it has not been renewed in the next parliamentary term, and I also said that I can well imagine the functioning of this subcommittee within the budget committee, with the focus on the activities of the Financial Analytical Unit. I think it is entirely legitimate to have a debate on the remit, the competences of this department, which, of course, has extraordinary competence. Exceptional powers in that they also act as basically - or carry out certain intelligence activities in the fight against money laundering. I can imagine, of course, and there is a legitimate discussion about a certain control of this Financial Analysis Unit, and I think that a number of things should be heard by the Committee on Budget, too, about the activities of this Financial Analytical Service. So much for a reminder, what happened in that period, from when we started our first reading, to this day on the establishment of a subcommittee, among other things, for the Financial Analysis Service. Just maybe a refill. This subcommittee shall have nine members. Therefore, five members must be from the Budget Committee and four members may not be members of the Budget Committee. Of course, the establishment of the subcommittee was made known to the Members' Clubs, so if, of course, there is an interest in taking part in this Committee, no one is prevented from doing so, even by not being a member of the Budget Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-014-035.u5	I thank Mr Václav Votav and we will continue the interrupted general debate. I ask who is reporting for the general debate. There is no such person, so I am ending the general debate and I am registering the motion to reject the motion tabled by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and Mr Matěj Fichtner. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. We will vote on the motion for rejection, as Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and Mr Matěj Fichtner put it. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 134, 149 Members and Members registered, for 36, against 57. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the Committee on Budgets? I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 135; 151 Members and Members are registered, for 130, against none. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. I'm ending the first reading of this bill. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur. [[16.10 hours]] Before we proceed to the next point, I'll read the apologies. Ms Gabriela Hubáčková apologizes today between 14:00 and 15:30 because of a doctor's visit, Minister Milan chovanec apologizes from 14:30 for working reasons in the resort, and Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes today from 17:00 because of a work meeting, and Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes today from 15:30 for working reasons. The next item is:
