ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u1	41. Government bill amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, and Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended / House print 458/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, this proposal for an amendment to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code sets three objectives. The first is to improve the detection of cases of corruption, where we are currently dealing with the fact that it is a criminal activity with so-called high latency, because no one in the story is interested in finding out about it by law enforcement authorities, because all those involved would be affected if they were reported. For this reason, we want to introduce the possibility that if someone has been asked for a bribe and for this reason also has provided it, so that if they immediately inform the law enforcement authorities and cooperate properly with them in order to condemn the real offender, that is to say, whoever required such a bribe, so that the notifier is impunity. That's the first target. The other one is more technical. The point is that a constitutional law was adopted by this House or by Parliament at all, limiting the immunity of Members, Senators and Judges of the Constitutional Court in time, but it was not translated into a criminal order, so it is corrected so that it can really work. And the last and probably most controversial element, but in my opinion, the introduction of criminality in the preparation of a crime from tax cuts, charges and similar compulsory payments is very important. The point here is that today, compared to the past, it is an extremely sophisticated activity, regularly even beyond one state's borders and organised criminal groups, which have shifted from other activities to this one, because it is the most profitable. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room. Many Members are discussing in the noisies in the alleys.]] The current tools to prosecute this crime are not enough precisely because today there is no criminal preparation of the crime, or the fact that there has to be an attempt, there really must be a crime committed, the tax is reduced, and that in today's time electronic money transfers means that police or financial authorities and police, if they learn that something like this is going to happen, they must wait until the criminals start doing it really, and then they can run something, but that's too late, because, of course, money and people are gone by then. For this reason, we consider it necessary for this preparation to be criminal here as well. In this context, there was originally a concern that various tax advisors and so on will still be forced to report something, even every consultation, and so on, was eliminated in the legislative process by being a criminal offence where they will no longer be included in the catalogue of those for whom their non-confession is a criminal offence. I think that's enough for an introduction. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u3	Thank you, Minister. I would now like the floor of the rapporteur, which is for the first reading of Mrs Helena Válková, who is unfortunately excused. I will therefore ask for a vote on the amendment of the rapporteur to Mrs Marie Benešová. I am opening the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur to Mrs Marie Benešová. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is voting number 187, registered 156 Members, for 125, against none. We have accepted the motion. I ask the rapporteur for her opening words. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u4	Good evening. The Minister here has tabled a government proposal that regulates three circles of questions again. The first objective of the adjustment is to try to motivate entities to report cases of corruption. As you know, corruption is, above all, latent criminal activity, and therefore, the Ministry has concluded that it is necessary to present a certain new institution in such a way that it is possible to prosecute and postpone criminal prosecutions and decisions to prosecute the suspect and help them to expose these cases. This is a delay of the suspect, i.e. the person who received the bribe. The second objective is to respond to the adoption of the Constitutional Law, which limited the immunity of Members, Senators and Judges of the Constitutional Court by changes made at constitutional level, but the objective pursued has not been effectively achieved since subsequent amendments to criminal law have not been made. And the last of the objectives pursued is the introduction of the criminality of the preparation of the crime of shortening the tax, charge and compulsory payment, which has been explained in detail by the Minister here, and I refer to this as he has presented here. I believe that it is necessary to support this law, which is a government law, and I propose that it be voted on its release to the second reading and the commandment of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Martin Plíšek first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u6	Mr Vice-President, my dear colleagues, I cannot, of course, forget to begin by saying that we are discussing the same thing as the previous paragraph of another amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. This time, however, there are three unrelated questions in this amendment. This means that the salami method is constantly being corrected here by this basic procedural law. And here, of course, is the question of when the government will come up with a new codification of criminal proceedings, because both lay and professional public really can no longer know about this. It's a salami, scrambled path to the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Indeed, in this press, as I have already mentioned, three unrelated things. It is late to respond to the amendment of the Constitution, which limited the immunity of Members and Senators only to the duration of the mandate. This amendment can be agreed with. The other two parts are, however, very controversial both in terms of legislative processing and in terms of the explanatory memorandum itself. This amendment further states...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u7	I am very sorry, Mr. Ambassador, to ask for peace in the Chamber. I understand it's an advanced hour, but please hold on just a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u8	This amendment also provides for the criminality of the preparation of a criminal offence to reduce the tax. When we look at the reasons or motives of the petitioner, the explanatory report is devoted solely to machinations with value added tax and excise tax, but preparation would also be criminal if other taxes were to be reduced. And it is a question, and the petitioner here and the minister actually mentioned whether normal tax optimization will be considered as preparation for a crime according to the proposal. When I look at the previous proposals that intervened in the confidentiality of lawyers, tax advisors, where this fine line remains, when it is not clear whether normal tax optimization is already preparing for a crime, this proposal - if it is released for second reading, which I will then suggest in the end a return to work, because the proposal is imperfect in this regard and it is not clear where the border is. This proposal will, of course, strengthen the activities of law enforcement authorities, which will be able to conduct criminal proceedings already at the stage of preparation, and therefore use eavesdroppings, for example. Third area. The proposal contains measures to motivate them to report cases of passive corruption when the bribe was granted because it was requested by the person concerned. The proposal will allow such a person not to be prosecuted, which is to be decided by the prosecutor if the conditions laid down are met. For example, a commitment to give a complete and truthful statement. This part of the proposal also does not address this when this action is provoked in some way. And if that happens, it's really inappropriate for one party to be exonerated from the prosecution or in some way the prosecutor has decided not to be prosecuted, and the other party has. So I think the proposal here needs to be clarified, too. It suffers from defects in the sense where there is a border where this activity is deliberately provoked by someone and where, on the basis of the decision of the prosecutor, the prosecution is to be stopped and the next to be continued. So, as I mentioned, the proposal addresses unsystemically three completely unrelated issues. There is a strengthening of police authorities, which may decide to temporarily postpone criminal prosecution in the event of passive corruption, and can subsequently be renewed, that is, from the point of view of the certainty of the party's proceedings it is rather undermined, and I think it is worth the redesign. The criminality of preparing only a crime of shortening the tax is justified by the alleged better means of evidence. But the principle of criminal law says that this is the ultimate means of using criminal law, not that the preparation itself is already a criminal offence. This means that this proposal suffers from legislative defects. This has already been reflected in his discussion in the Legislative Council of the Government, and I therefore propose that this proposal be returned to the petitioner for revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u9	I thank Mr Plíšek and I note his proposal for a re-evaluation. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will also try to spare you, but I must join Mr Plíšek's proposal and say that I consider this bill extremely unsuccessful. First of all, I consider it absolutely unfair if I amend criminal law, matter, and at the same time I amend criminal order, process, so to name it as a process amendment and amendment of criminal law as matter to put it just as a footnote, that we are doing some minor change there, these are the things that I think are not supposed to do. In general, these collection novels, which have everything possible, aren't entirely fair, and they're not at all fair to the professional public. But this idea that I'm going to keep the matter under trial, and the important thing I'm putting into this bill, changing matter, hiding it in the process, seems unfair to the professional public, at least, when I forget about us. That's the first point. Second point. The part concerning Members, Senators and Judges could easily have been included in the previous amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure that we discussed. It is completely useless and unnecessary, and it is only based on the fact that the law enforcement authorities here basically only read their regulations and refuse to read the Constitution. But we've been there before. We've seen it with Ištvan and others several times. It's just a joke. Instead of going along with the fact that we have a hierarchy of law, and that when the Constitution says something, of course, the laws that are of a sub-constitutional nature must be interpreted in accordance with it, there are some smart guys in the D.A. who really can't interpret it. I think it's almost useless to do the novel at all. What is more fundamental, however, is the other two changes. The first is maybe impunity in the announcement, not an attempt at corruption, but a complete corruption. It's been talked about for a long time. It's not a thing that's come about unexpectedly. The pressure was especially from abroad to release this provision because no one understood it: How can one who is involved in corruption be declared impunity only on the grounds that he then decides to go snitching? Because he had to be actively involved in the corruption before. He wasn't going to tell it when he was asked for a bribe, and he didn't go there with the police recording devices. Well, he gave up the bribe, and later he felt like he was maybe too big or that he was already too bad, so he's going to blow it up and he feels like he's going to be impunity based on it. The government, which says: Well, it concerns all people in the Czech Republic, only not cases of bribery against representatives of other states, virtually. to companies from other countries. Because they know everyone would look at us like we're crazy. [[21.20 hours]] So this is a pure hysterical scream of several so-called. anti-corruption activists who claim that, on the basis of the release of this paragraph, which twenty years before had perhaps not had a single function, corruption has somehow increased, and unfortunately, some who are understudy are hoping for such strange changes. But even this is a thing I can probably accept, because I think it will only lead to a lot of unnecessary arguments and accusations, a word against a word, and no one will be sure of it, and it will find that the institute is completely useless and dysfunctional, like it was unused and dysfunctional from 1989 to 2010 or 2009, when it was abolished. Unfortunately, what is most important and essential is the introduction of criminality in the preparation of tax reductions. I consider this an incredibly dangerous instrument, and if it is the solution that the Minister brings to resolve what the chairman of his political movement has promised, you so-called. Carousels, so you should have come up with some other way to solve really carousels, which solves the problem of company chaining often with international participation, you should have made it some type of organized group and say that this is criminal, but not to go back to the criminality of preparing the crime of tax cuts. This is so dangerous and exploitable and rubbery paragraph that really any tax optimization, any consultation with a tax advisor in the case of larger conglomerates, of course it will not concern people who pay five thousand in taxes, but any greater consultation may mean the risk of prosecution, it can mean, because it is a particularly serious offence, the deployment of all possible operational means and everything else we know. I really consider this way of avoiding the carousel business as the worst possible thing the government could come up with, and I very much beg you to support the motion for a return to work. If it doesn't pass, we're going to try to rewrite it on the Constitutional Legal Committee, because in this form, in my opinion, it's very dangerous for this country and its entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u11	I thank Mr Benda. First, the Minister with priority rights, then the Chairman of the TOP 09 and the starosta. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond after all. Criminal activity in the area of tax cuts is indeed the most popular type of crime in organised crime groups throughout Europe today. Instead, groups previously engaged in drug production are now dealing with tax cuts because they have found that it is relatively clean work that can be earned quite a lot of money. That's why I think it's absurd for us to come to this by some kind of optics that we're talking about people who might have gone to a tax advisor to optimize their tax returns. That's not what this is about! It is really about sophisticated measures or schemes where companies with an average life span of several days are designed to be established. If you look at our explanatory report, you will see it discussed on specific cases where in one particular case there were several hundred million crowns, so those companies had an average life span of eight days that were involved, and so the total damage to the economy is indeed in tens of billions of crowns. And I'm saying and pointing out that if we don't have the crime of preparing these crimes, we're not really able to prosecute it, we're not really capable of prosecuting it. We're not really able to go against it with sufficient efficiency, because just in those eight days when what's been being prepared for a long time is really happening, it can't be captured anymore, and all those numbers confirm it. So I am actually convinced of the need for this change. And at the same time, I want to emphasise one thing. We had the crime of preparing here by 2009 and no horrible things happened. We don't have, as far as I know, a prison full of entrepreneurs who wanted to optimize their taxes. I don't see any reason why this should change if we reinvent ourselves. Just paradoxically, we took it out of the law exactly when the wave of carousel shops began. I believe it was an accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u13	Thank you, Minister. Another duly logged in is President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u14	Thank you. I really don't want to hold up much longer. I think we're gonna be talking about this for a long time. But the wave of carousel fraud was not triggered in 2009 or 2008. Carousel fraud has existed within the EU since VAT was introduced in the single market. VAT is an excellent tax for reporting, for statistics, it's a really great invention, but it's a tax for gentlemen. It's supposed to be paid and it's not cheating. However, I beg you very much to consider the return of preparations to the penal code. No, we accidentally leaked it in 2009. It sounds logical what the Minister said, but those paragraphs sound different. In principle, it depends on the liking of the police officer and the prosecutor, after all, on the decision of the court that will be judged as preparation or not. And I admit that if I was a businessman, like I didn't intend to, and in today's situation, such an instrument appeared in criminal law, I would either go to another country to tax or go to the grey economy. I'm definitely not gonna risk filing a criminal complaint with any tax returns. I'm afraid if you push this through, it'll be counterproductive that you don't collect more taxes, which you assume, but you'll pick a lot less because a lot of people get worried that whatever they do in good faith, they'll actually turn themselves in when they give up their tax returns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u15	Thank you to President Kalousek. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. Mr. Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u16	Thank you, Mr President. My colleagues, my colleagues, in this place, I must agree with Martin Plíšek and Mr Benda, who have said here that this is unsystematic, what we are doing here. It really is the third amendment to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code that we are discussing here this semester, and some things when we read the explanatory notes are sometimes so -- once it's systemic, the second it's nonsystemic. This time we are introducing the preparation of a criminal offence - forty-two - shortening taxes, fees and other compulsory payments - is systemic, and we are going back to what was before 2010, when a new criminal code came into force, but rejecting the preparation of a criminal offence in Section 216, which means legalising the proceeds of crime, even though it is one of the government's programme priorities. So once it's a system, once it's not a system. We could talk about how there are hidden matters about corruption, but it is a subject that we will certainly not solve here in this plenary at 9:30 p.m., so let's bring it to the ground of the constitutionally legal committee, and let's have a heated discussion there, and hopefully we can sort it out in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u17	I thank Mr Ondráček. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Marek Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u18	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen... When my colleague Blažek stopped speaking to the Minister, my comment was directed to the Minister... If my colleague Blažek stops talking to the Minister...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u19	Colleague Blažek, please stop talking to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u20	Just a request. Everything that is in the explanatory report has been considered - everything that has been said from the Minister's mouth regarding the preparation of the tax reduction crime - is only about carousel. I'm asking: Was there another way to prosecute this rather than to create a situation where the risk of abuse of this institute really is enormous? It is not only in the hands of the courts of course, it is in the hands of the beginning of active police officers, over them some active prosecutors. And it is not true that by 2009, it did not in many cases serve to settle accounts, often business, through its friendly police officers and prosecutors. That it often did not end with a conviction, because the courts acknowledged that this was stupid, that is true, but that it has often caused huge problems on one side of the dispute, that is why we have seen all of us who have followed this country and followed the development of criminal law in it, and that is why we have launched this preparation. So to say, because of the carousels, I'm going to return the institute that we've known for 15 years that it's questionable, problematic and abused, it seems like a mistake to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u21	I thank Mr Benda. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u22	When we act against agreements after 9:00 p.m., we who thought we were going to quit are full of energy and we can get involved in this debate. I really don't understand because the deal was different. But so be it. Minister, would you mind trying to think of another way to use this paragraph than those carousels? The finance minister has cell phones for the other finance ministers and he's handling it. And I agree that for the selected commodities, where the carousels really are, the reverse charge is a good solution. But that's a completely different solution than putting it in a general paragraph that doesn't just involve carousels, but everything else. This means the moment when e.g. the tax office will find out any errors, will the staff of the tax office file a criminal complaint? And that doesn't have to be deliberate misconduct. Something just doesn't feel right. Who lived in real life... and it doesn't have to be a lot of money. The fact that we want to get on the grasshopper to those who are really taking on the budget for big money, and that is not the tradesmen and your register cashiers solution, is certainly a common goal. But certainly not like this. Try another example to convince us that there may be some logic. I'm sure there's better revers charge for those carousels. If it can be enforced, I don't know, because there are traditional European countries that just block it. It is not true that the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš is the first finance minister to try to enforce this at European level. There were also his predecessors who tried to do so. And perhaps surprisingly unsurprisingly, France was the leader of those opponents in the long run. That would be a solution, but that is not in our hands as the Czech Parliament, because because this is EU competence, we are not able to introduce this ourselves. Try to give us another example, because on revers charge it won't work what you say. On the contrary, what my colleague, Marek Benda, was talking about - abuse of criminal notification in a competitive fight. And what good is it if after years of court tells you that you didn't do it, when you lose your business partners, you lose faith? Who's gonna want to deal with a company that's gonna be suspected of committing a crime of tax evasion? What's valid for this firm is that in two years, the judge said, "That was a bully proposal," nothing happened. Who's gonna return economic trust to business partners like this? I don't think anyone does. If that's the only reason, the carousels, I think it's completely unnecessary. Maybe you can give us some other, more meaningful case that would allow us to think about why we should put it in place. But I think the experience, the negative experience, should be a warning than to reintroduce it, because I'm really worried about shrinking criminal reports. Both the agile officials of all the financial authorities and all those who want to use it in a competitive fight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u23	Thank you, honourable Member. Now with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u24	Thank you. First of all, I think you're kind of painting the devil on the wall, because when you're talking about some kind of bully criminal report, I can file a bully criminal report on basically any crime. Well, if there's no prep today, I'll give it a try. Or I'll pass it on to something completely different. Nothing's gonna change in that direction. But when it comes back to the preparation, on the one hand, I think that reverses charge is a little bit of a longer-track run, it's a more efficient tool, but as you rightly say, we don't really have it in our hands, so let's focus on what we have in our hands and what's not so complicated, even if it solves just a piece of the problem. And as for examples other than carousels, I would like to quote from the explanatory statement on the proposal. Police of the Czech Republic have repeatedly signalled that since the entry into force of the Criminal Code, they are also dealing with the problem of serious excise tax cuts. In these cases it will be possible to detect illegal production sites e.g. tobacco products before their further distribution takes place. The police will stop this activity by unveiling these factories, but the perpetrators will remain without penalty due to current legislation. There can be no provision of machinery. It is not only this reduction but also the reduction of excise duty on mineral oils. Cases continue to occur where imports of substances which are, by their composition, diesel but are intended for other purposes according to the customs nomenclature code. And there's no way to get it out again. Atd. etc. There are more examples. There aren't any others listed. There are no examples of someone offering to trade in fake invoices, which is also a popular sport. There are just a number of these types of cuts, and very often there is preparation - it simply applies in criminal law that preparations are already being punished for serious crimes. And I believe that tax cuts are just some serious crimes. And criminological evidence shows it to us, it's really an organized crime area. But maybe it's 9:30, I think this is a debate that belongs to the committee. After all, we can talk about whether or not to modify the proposal in any way, so that it doesn't concern all tax cuts, so that we can in some way comply with the objections that are here. So I'm gonna ask you, let's let this go to second reading, and let's do the rest on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kalousek, Mr Benda, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u26	The rhetorical question that came up - why it should be dangerous. Why is it so dangerous? Because it's very rubbery in the case of tax legislation and practical performance. If I was going to assassinate someone, it could probably be proven whether or not the deed had happened. The preparation of tax fraud is so rubbery that I firmly believe that virtually any such confession can be prosecuted, at least a year to two, before I can disprove and convince the institutions that I did not want to cheat. It's so fucking rubbery, and because everyone who's in business has to do it, while not everyone is going to murder someone, it's so fucking rubbery that it can lead to the criminalization of this state's business. Just please consider it, don't do it, it'll be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u27	I thank Mr Kalousek. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u28	Thank you. For the record, I agree with the Minister that tax offences are a serious problem and that, from my point of view, they are also serious crimes. But we're talking about preparation, we're not talking about tax offense, we're really in agreement on that. We have an example, we've been debating today, or we've been debating VAT revenue for a long time. What should a tax clerk do to hold VAT because he suspects that VAT should not be paid? And we can say if 13 million, 2 billion, are detained. If this paragraph is there, the detention will automatically involve the preparation of a criminal offence. [[A note from the diaper.]] What do you mean, no? He's got to know something by now when he's going to the check, and if he doesn't pay the VAT on his due date, there's a reasonable suspicion of preparing a tax offense. Do you realize the implications of what you're saying? What do you mean, no? How come there's no suspicion of preparation if I'm withholding VAT? What is it, then? Why am I going there for a checkup? Why am I checking to see if he's entitled to a refund? Well, I'm gonna make sure I suspect he's setting up a tax fraud. If that check comes in on time and reveals it, we'll stop the tax fraud. They're all suspects in prep. So I would like us not to confuse the public in this debate by saying that we who have a problem with preparation do not want to fight tax fraud. That's what we want. We're in agreement. And I also consider this to be more serious crimes. But the preparation? And that's what Mr Kalousek said in front of me, it's so rubbery that you'll see, if you enforce it, how many agile tax officials, if they suspect a problem, the VAT bill, the road tax, the excise tax, the income tax of individuals or legal entities, logically they'll think they have a duty to file and file criminal charges, because there could be preparation of a tax-abort crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u29	I thank Mr Stanjur. If no one else is to be heard in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. We will first vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion, as suggested by Mr Plíšek. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's a request for check-out, please sign up with your voting cards. I hereby initiate the vote to refer the proposal to the appellant for completion. All in favor, raise your hand and lift the button. Who's against it? Voting number 188, 132 Members of Parliament, for 27, against 78. The motion was not accepted. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this proposal as a guarantee committee to the constitutionally-legal committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 189 vote, 133 Members and Members registered, for 132, against none. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Mr Kalousek has a motion for a commandment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u30	I would consider it very useful if the Committee on Budgets looked into this in terms of the normal practice of tax administration, and what this could lead to. I don't think many of us can imagine what's really going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u31	Okay, budget committee. Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u32	I think there is a great deal of impact on the business sector here, and it would be wise for the economic committee to deal with this, even though the members of the economic committee are gesturing me that they are not. You have a subcommittee on business, I think it's the right committee. I suggest that the economic committee discuss this as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-013-041.u33	There. If no one else has a proposal, we will first vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who opposes the commandment of the Committee on Budgets? It is vote number 190, registered 132 Members of Parliament, for 106, against 7. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will address the commandments of the Economic Committee. Initiating vote. Who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee? Who's against it? In the vote number 191, 133 Members and Members were enrolled, for 38 and against 68. The motion was not accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee and budgetary committee next. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. I'm ending reading this bill first. I wish you a good night and in 11 hours and 15 minutes I will look forward to meeting you again. Have a good night.
