ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u1	27. Government bill amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, as amended, and some other laws /house print 309/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the proposal. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal tabled by the amendment to the Regional Development Support Act pursues several objectives. In the area of regional development support, this is primarily about improving the preparation and use of strategic national and regional documents. [[Noise in the hall.]] In contrast to the existing legislation drafted under the conditions for 2000 it is proposed to set out more detailed procedural procedures for the preparation of strategic documents and to assign tasks for individual phases to the actors concerned. The terminology of the strategic documents is followed by the proposed modifications in the Regional Law and the Prague Capital Act. In the area of economic, social and territorial cohesion policy, the objective of this amendment is to define -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u3	Madam Secretary, I apologize to you, too, but really, colleagues, there's a high level of noise. So please keep your voice down, or maybe we'll take a break so you can discuss your business. Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u4	Thank you. In the field of economic, social and territorial cohesion policy, the aim of this amendment is to define and clarify coordination, preparatory and implementation activities, including the establishment of the coordinating role of the Ministry of Regional Development, which has been entrusted to it only by government resolutions. The draft also deals with the creation of conditions for setting up the implementation structure of European Union programmes. An amendment to the adaptation of the European grouping of territorial cooperation is also included in the draft. The proposals contained in this amendment relate to the adaptation of legislation to the conditions and requirements of the new programming period of the European Union. They should be adopted as soon as possible, as possible, as well as in order to adjust the conditions for drawing aid from EU funds in a timely manner. The initial objective of this proposed adjustment was also to create conditions for the continued operation of regional cohesion councils in the implementation structure of the European Structural and Investment Funds in the programming period 2014 to 2020. As a result of recent developments in the negotiation of operational programmes with the European Commission, this solution has been abandoned. We therefore assume that the part of the proposed amendment will be modified by an amendment which will reflect, in particular, the inclusion of the relevant provisions relating to the establishment of the Centre for Regional Development of the Czech Republic as a service office in the legal order, the limitation of the activities of regional councils in relation to the closure of regional operational programmes 2007 and 2013 - which will therefore no longer be included in the 2014 and 2020 programming period - and the regulation of the scope of certain cities as so-called. holders of integrated tools. The draft amendment is compatible with European Union law. It does not concern the status of natural persons and therefore does not affect equality between men and women. I believe that you will support the proposal that I have briefly presented to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u5	I thank the Minister. And before I invite the rapporteur to the microphone, we are forced to deal with the vote to change the rapporteur, because the Organising Committee has designated the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Havíř, who apologizes for today's negotiations. I have here a proposal for the rapporteur to be carried out by Mr Petrů. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of changing the rapporteur to Mr Petrů, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 110, to which 166 are registered, for 123, against no one. The proposal was adopted and I am asking the new rapporteur, Mr Petrů, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u6	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your confidence. The amendment to the Act creates conditions for the implementation of the Partnership Agreement for the new planning period 2014 to 2020 and also creates conditions for institutional support for the implementation of programmes. The fundamental topics of the law. It unites the form and content of individual strategic documents, in particular the regional development strategy at the government level and the regional development strategy. This includes other territorial documents for strategic planning. It also creates a central institute for the implementation of the Integrated Regional Operational Programme of the Centre for Regional Development of the Czech Republic. It is a contribution organisation which will be established by the Ministry of Regional Development. Furthermore, for the purpose of coordinating and implementing operational programmes, cohesion regions are established, which are territorially identical with NUTS 2 territorial statistical unit and are listed by law. According to my information, this document is eagerly awaited by the regions and has the proposed form of support of the Association of Regions. I expect a more detailed discussion of this law during the negotiations in the guarantee committee, event. in the committees to which this press will be ordered. I advise you to release this press for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate, in which I note the factual point - Mrs Fischerová, please. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I want to ask you in Czech on this topic that has been going on here. [[with a smile]] I confess that this is the Euro-English one when it comes to subsidies for cities and municipalities, regions. I also had the honour of working on the Regional Cohesion Council of the South East, and I have some small experience. But now that I have listened, the Minister has said that the amendment will be the one that concerns precisely how intermediary bodies will work, probably not the regional cohesion councils. But I think it's a big change, and I want it to work. So I also discussed this with the various people who are working in the framework of the adoption of euro subsidies, and they told me that it is considered how it is in the proposal for regional development of this law that it is considered to build a regional development centre in each region. So I know that this is going to be discussed, but it seems to me that when we already have people who are experienced in the work of regional cohesion councils and could automatically go to these very regional development centres, let's say, as the CRC is called in that speech, this is not possible under the service law. So that's exactly what I'm asking. Because it's a waste of people who've already taken experience, information, they're able to navigate quickly. What really is the future of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u9	Thank you. With another factual fact, I have Mr Pavera's enrollment. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I would also like to support Mrs Fischerová. I also have excellent experience with regional cohesion council workers in each region, and there are really very good people in the Moravian-Silesian Region, as well as in other regions. [[15.00 hours]] I think it is a great shame not to exploit their potential and their experience with European subsidies, so that they cannot go on and just fine-tune the ending programs, that is a real shame. And bringing new, inexperienced people back to the regional development centers that already exist in each region, I think that maybe the Minister's godly intention is, but I don't know if we're gonna be a few years late again when these new employees are having trouble understanding some grant titles and methodologies that come up with headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u11	Thank you. The next application is with priority rights, Mr Stanjura. Then Mr Kučera will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u12	Thank you for the floor. So first some experience from this programming period, especially from cross-border operational programmes. Polish colleagues - I came from the Czech-Polish border - went through everything. Everything, really. All they had to do was write that it had a cross-border impact and draw money. Our centre of regional development has really seriously examined every detail of each project, whether it benefits Czech-Polish relations or not. Then let's complain about Brussels, but here we Čech, no Brussels, were at risk of drawing. That's what I'm saying. The bill is really useless. It won't do me any good not to quote a few sentences from the proposed wording of the law. And let's say if we really want it in the law. This is a political declaration, mostly in general, which cannot be protested against. I understand that. Such general goals that we want people to have a good time, that the economy should have a good time. Everyone will support that on this general level. Just so we know. Part Two, Aid for Regional Development, Section 3. Now, please, who has not read this to monitor the fact that we need these paragraphs in the law: "The objective of promoting regional development is to ensure dynamic and balanced development of the Czech Republic's territory with regard to quality of life and the environment, to contribute to reducing regional disparities while allowing local potential to be used to increase the economic and social level of individual regions." I guess we all agree on that. Too bad the alternate rapporteur isn't listening to me. [[Members of the Petrs.]] I'd like him to respond if necessary. I'm sorry, but I think that, in particular, the rapporteur might pay attention. I want to know what we have this paragraph for. And I can continue: "The areas of regional development support in the Czech Republic will define more closely the regional development strategy of the Czech Republic and at the level of the regional development strategy of the regional district." [[hereinafter referred to as the Regional Development Strategy]] That's a bit of a fight with Section 2, when we say it might be a little different, but why not? A paragraph 3: "The regional development strategy and the regional development strategy shall be processed with effect for the European Union's programming period." That means we're almost a year and a half late, and nothing happens if we don't have it. It's really okay. "The Ministry of Regional Development, in cooperation with other central administrations and regions concerned, proposes the definition of regions whose development needs to be supported with a view to dynamic" - this is the second time - "and balanced development of the Czech Republic," so we already have dynamic and balanced development of the Czech Republic twice on six lines - in the law, not political programme or programming declaration, "increasing the economic and social level of local authorities and maintaining their economic, social and territorial cohesion." [[hereinafter referred to as State-supported regions]] And I could keep reading like this. For example, the content of the regional development strategy consists in particular of: "analyzing the state of regional development, setting Republic priorities and strategic objectives of regional policy', and so on, and so on. Madam Secretary, when she got in, she said she wanted to fight unnecessary bureaucracy. And unnecessary bureaucracy includes unnecessary sections. I'm asking what we have these declaration paragraphs for. Now I don't want to talk about how we're going to deal with regional development from the center level. Anyone who feels a contradiction like me has to look at it and ask why we will be dealing with regional development from the level of the centre. And then there's just this crap from the explanatory report. Speaking of structurally affected territories and northern Moravia and northern Bohemia, Silesia also belongs there. Silesia belongs there, Madam Secretary. It's not just North Moravia, as you write in the explanatory report. I'm from Silesia. Don't be mad at me. I think we belong there, that we are an integral part of the Moravian-Silesian region. I know they say, especially you from Prague, that you are all going to Moravia. Very often, ministerial servants in Opava tell me it's nice to be here in Moravia. That's fine, but we're not in Moravia. But that's a detail. I am really interested in what we have in the law so many unnecessary sentences and declarations. Do we really have to agree that we are seeking dynamic and balanced development of the Czech Republic? Isn't that a matter of course? Do we need this in the law? I don't think so. The law can be 50 percent cut, nothing will happen. In my opinion, there is a contradiction that the centres will address regional development. I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u13	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Kučera. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u14	Hello. Thank you for the floor. The advantage of speaking after Members with priority rights is that you don't have to say so much anymore, because many will say for you. I have to identify with President Stanjura here that in many ways this amendment is really useless and brings both an administrative burden not only for the Ministry but also for the regions and municipalities. I was trying to read the reason message. I don't know if any of you read it. This is the press. [[The MP's showing the material.]] I didn't even print the whole thing, but I tried to at least bite through it on my computer. And indeed, while I was trying to understand Minister Šlechtová, and I really mean it honestly, there are sentences that I didn't understand at all. For example, on page 17 of the explanatory memorandum - I quote: "The practice requires that the specification of role status and cooperation between relevant regional actors, states, regions, cities, municipalities and their associations be set up in the Regional Development Support Act in a framework with respect to the general competences of central and territorial administrations timelessly with regard to the stability of the rule of law and in sufficient flexibility, since, in the various EU programming periods, the definition of functions of entities involved in the management and control of the programme is changed in the synergies of the actors concerned.' End of sentence and quote. I really have to give my colleague Stanjur the truth here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u15	Thank you. In fact, Mr Benešík comes to the microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u16	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, I do not know if it is necessary for us to have in law that we have balanced regional development. But there is no balanced regional development in the Czech Republic. We all know that. The regions are evolving differently and, unfortunately, in the new planning period of the European Union, there is a risk that these disparities will paradoxically deepen, because we have privileged regions, which are called ITIs, in other words regional centres, urban agglomerations that will have gluttoned money. This is, for example, Brno, Ostrava, Plzeň and the like, which touch really money, which is in the box of European funds only for them. And then we have the rest where, for example, my county, which is Zlinsky County, belongs. Indeed, this situation threatens that balanced regional development will remain somewhat pure fiction. I would also like to stress that this situation, when this is at risk, is inherited by Minister Šlechtová. I think... The Chamber of Deputies and the Ministry should have dealt with this matter a long time ago, perhaps two or three years ago, when architecture began to form for the distribution of European subsidies. And even our subcommittee on European funds and cross-border cooperation in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development is trying to mitigate this unfortunate situation at least. The question is how much time and possibilities we have to achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u17	Thank you and I have three factual points here. With the first to the microphone of Mr Bendl, Mr Stanjura and Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, my colleagues, I look forward to the debate in the Public Administration Committee on the amount of redundant paragraphs that are really there. I can't imagine anyone being able to respond to them in a factual way or saying why there should be a sentence that is a bare statement, and why it should have its subparagraph and other and other numbers. In that respect, it's redundant. It's more like I miss how we're gonna do it. We want to support regional development, that is, our public administration, which we have at regional development level, legitimately elected representatives who legitimately define their own priorities that they want to support in their regions and have regional operational programmes for this. The state has its operating programs. He should look at the matter conceptually from the point of view of the state, but he should not interfere with what political representation at regional level decides to be a priority for them. [[unintelligible]] The moment they start interfering with it, we're going to start going round and round because we won't know which representative is the right one. Is he a Member of Parliament? Is he a minister? Or a clerk at the Ministry of Regional Development? Or is he a regional representative or something? That doesn't clean the material at all. As much as I agree with that, because it says that some regions, or if you want the borders of the regions, are becoming some kind of border area. Yes, the state should probably point out that somewhere there are municipalities that are not equipped with almost no infrastructure, do not have plumbing, sewerage or intricately pay off the cleaners. Elsewhere there are municipalities that are already equipped with this infrastructure, but they will have no potential for possible other things and so on. The scissors are simply opening up in the Czech Republic, that is true, but it should not be addressed by invested money under regional operational programmes, but under some financial state policy. [[Attention on time.]] The state should try to balance, not reach the regions into their finances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u19	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Stanjura's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u20	I think we agree with Mr Benešík that if we want to support even less economically developed regions, this support cannot be balanced. If she was balanced, she'd give everyone the same, we'd actually fix the existing differences. A comment on the promotion of urban agglomerations. Well, that's Brussels politics, isn't it? It simply means: some centers have certain money and compete with themselves. That's not news. During this parliamentary term, we had twice integrated city development plans. Always a specific name to cover it up a little bit. There was one in those ROPs - that was money for statutory cities. As regional councils divided it, that was it. And it was money that only those statutory cities could draw. At the same time they were in the IOP, there were other IPRMs that allowed the particular cities included there - it was more than statutory cities - to draw on selected housing estates. I don't want to evaluate the criteria that were given. We who were handsome have pumped everywhere. That's just the way it is. But it is the policy of the European Commission. They call it such a noble urban dimension. Those are untranslatable inexplicable words. Then it gives an integrated city development plan. You used ITI, I think. I don't know exactly what you said. It's always the same. Someone because Brussels thinks big cities are supposed to get money. And there's a reason for it. There are rational arguments, because they are cities that provide services not only to their citizens, but also to the wider public, whether transport, cultural, sports, social, that it is not worth putting big and small towns, villages or rurals against cities. That's not going anywhere. It's about raising money or projects that make sense. Not to be a mantra: spend every euro. It's a mantra. And the mantra should be: we will only support good projects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u21	Thank you for respecting the time limit and please refer to Mr Zahradník's microphone with a factual remark. In fact, Mr Benešík will also be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Benešík mentioned the efforts of the European Committee and the subcommittee on European Funds to assist in the solution. In cooperation with the Minister, we organize a round table with the Ministry of Regional Development on 7 May from 10 pm in the House for the preparation of this programming period, for the preparation of European programmes. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry, the Minister, the representatives of the governing bodies at the ministries, we invite representatives of local and regional authorities and other stakeholders. So it's gonna be May 7th at 10 o'clock here in the House. Of course, all of you are also cordially invited. One more thing. The support for small, small businesses in the regions is not negligible, but a small segment of support. In addition, there are quite a well-functioning implementation bodies that have quite proven themselves in the past period, and these are local action groups that are relatively well established in the regions. We have been assured by the Ministry of Industry and Trade that this area will be well managed by CzechInvest. It turns out that CzechInvest does not meet the conditions laid down by the European Union, namely that its workers are not legal officials and therefore cannot do so. So the question now is whether the CzechInvest staff can be transferred to the Ministry's report in time or become employees of regional development centres. It is imperative that this official matter be carried out as soon as possible so that these small projects can be drawn as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u23	Thank you for keeping the time limit and please contact Mr. Benešík's microphone. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u24	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. It's just a brief reaction. I don't think we're in conflict with President Stanjura. I just wanted to be more specific. The regional centres and the support of regional centres are definitely in order. No one's questioning that. Although I am from the village, I understand that Prague has completely different needs and possibilities and meaning than my native Strání. That's it. I totally understand. But I think that lobbying for half of the regions to have so-called regional centers and half not was actually a little discriminatory, because I don't see much difference - I apologize to all Olomoučák and Zlin. Olomouc in ITI is, that means it's a regional center, and Zlin isn't. At the same time, I think these two agglomerations are comparable. And what will be the definition of the regional centre, and who is lobbying which regional centre is on that list, it was already a matter of the Czech Republic. So I wouldn't blame Brusel here, but there was more of a problem in a situation where bread was broken imaginarily at a time when our first government was changing to the second and second to the third. I think the current government really doesn't have much room for manoeuvre anymore. So it's not just a complaint, it's an explanation of the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u25	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I do not see any further applications for the debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the secretary if he's interested in the final word. That's right. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the information and suggestions that have been made. I would just like to clarify that the law was delivered to the Chamber of Deputies on 4 September, i.e. at first reading I am reading what was delivered. That is why I have also expressed the pleasure of having to be an amendment. I would have responded to a few questions about the Centre for Regional Development - Mrs Fischerová's questions, and it then ties it to everything else. The Centre for Regional Development, our organization of the Ministry of Regional Development - as I joined, and I do what I said - less bureaucracy. The Centre for Regional Development will be completely renovated. We require more employees. At this point, I have put the material on the government, which has been cut off and we will put it in the inter-reort, by an increase of 100 employees this year, by roughly 200 employees in the course of the next year. [[15.20 hours]] This information is already linked to the ÚRR, the Office of Regional Councils. The problem is that regional council offices are not a service office, they are not part of the Service Act, that is, on the basis of several legal analyses that I have had since my arrival, employees cannot be transferred to the Ministry of Regional Development, or the solution can of course be their interest in joining the Centre for Regional Development. What I have also said is that in every regional city we intend to establish a branch of the Centre for Regional Development with a number of employees of approximately 20 - 22. Of course, the staff of the Office of Regional Councils have the opportunity to sign up for the tender to the Centre for Regional Development. Just so you know, in the next few days, I will be putting the material on the extension of the Centre for Regional Development into an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, where we set out all the reasons why and against, we will expect the employees of the Centre for Regional Development to fulfil the role of the intermediate body of the Centre for Regional Development, which is part of the operational programme under us, so-called. An integrated regional operational programme. This is the link of the Centre for Regional Development to regional councils. I would very much like to, and I have been trying to do this for several months, to address the situation of 460 employees to regional councils, after the completion of the ROPs at regional level. The first such swallow is that, of course, given that the Regional Development Centre will grow by 300 seats, we have calculated on the basis of the debate, it is not just the idea of MMR, we communicate with the regions, with all the governors, with the Regional Council and, of course, regional council presidents, administrative capacity to shut down the ROPs and to complete the programme period 2007 to 2013, which provides approximately 150 to 160 employees. The Centre will now expand by 300 employees, so it is possible, of course, that the employees of the existing regional council offices have a chance to sign up for the tender. As I say, legally it is not possible to transfer the employees of regional council offices to the Ministry of Regional Development, although I have tried my utmost to do so, given that regional council offices are not service offices. If they were, it would be easier, of course, and they can go over automatically. I just can't right now. There was also an incentive, virtually. information on why the Centre for Regional Development is being established. As there is a temporal discrepancy in the presentation of the law and the validity and effectiveness of the service law, unfortunately, a transitional provision has fallen out, a paragraph which basically said that the current centre replaces what the service law says must be governed, the transitional provision is no longer there, or the service law says MMR that we need to set up a centre. So before me stands the abolition of the existing and the establishment of a new centre, already reconstructed. Time mismatches of a legislative nature. As far as information on unnecessary paragraphs is concerned, I am very happy for the suggestions and I hope that, even during the debates in the committees, we will be able to say our views on this, as the Ministry, now under my direction. I will be very happy for all the proposals from all the political parties that actually gave me all the initiative. As regards State aid in respect of regions. Here I would like to mention that last year the MMR gave money to the Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region, and given that the strategy for regional development says and determines socially weaker regions, we will now also be debating the fact that from our budget heading, from us, the Ministry of Regional Development, money has gone precisely to socially weaker regions. I am going to create new national programmes essentially for these socially weaker regions. I also said at the outset, after my arrival, that I wanted to revise the national programmes by the MMR. Some of them are already outdone at this point, and those needs and necessity are elsewhere and in view of the current situation in the regions. Everything is in discussion with the Regional Association, so here I want to assure you that the MMR's actions are discussed with the Regional Association, of course. As far as ITI is concerned, integrated tools. This is an instrument approved by the Government in 2012 as an instrument that will help the Czech Republic meet the five percent condition for sustainable urban development. It's part of the Partnership Agreement. So we have seven ITIs, and they're actually not ITIs, they're regional cities, they're part of the so-called ITI. an integrated territorial development plan. I would also like to assure you that, of course, I am aware of the quality of IPRM at all levels, and given that some IPRMs are rather a collection of projects at a certain level for the period 2007 to 2013, an integrated ITI development plan must have its strategy to be approved on the regional permanent conference platform, subsequently at a national permanent conference, or indeed a system of many changes. There's something else I'd like to mention. This isn't about whether or not we could've done anything else about it. They could not because the government in 2012, Mr Nečas' government, approved the programmes and approved the Integrated Regional Operational Programme with no ROPs, and with this, of course, we all have to work now and also work. So I would like to make certain of a few things about the incentives for unnecessary paragraphs. Of course, we are prepared for debates in the committees at second reading, at the same time, with regard to individual information or incentives regarding regional council offices, I have told you what the current information is and how our government is actually going. The real problem here is that regional council authorities are not under service law. The rest, I think I've said. I would like to ask you to let this amendment into the next reading, with the fact that this law, virtually. I do not consider this amendment to be useless because, on the contrary, it determines the need for cooperation between the state, the regions and the cities, the municipalities, and essentially what the regional development strategy referred to in this Amendment 248 also defines. It's very important, because for example. The regional development strategy is just saying what socially weaker regions are. We have to move away from this, for example. national subsidies could invest in these socially weaker regions. I want to thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u27	I thank and ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u28	Madam President, it is my duty to say that there have been eight speeches on this bill, some Members have spoken repeatedly, no motion to reject or re-work, and what I said is that I propose to refer this bill to committees for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u29	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. In this case, too, the Organisational Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. In connection with the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies with effect from 1. 3. 2015 I propose that we order a bill to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. I'm asking if anyone else is suggesting another committee as a guarantee. It's not like that. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I conclude the vote, it is the vote with order number 111, to which 168 are entered, for 146. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. [[15.30 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I am asking if anyone has a motion on the commandment of the next committee or committees for discussion. This is not the case, so I conclude on this point. And I'll pass the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-003-027.u30	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Before we go to point 28, I'll read the apologies I have here. Mr. Jiří Holeček apologizes today from 14.45 due to illness, Mr. Robin Böhnisch apologizes today from 15 to 16 o'clock due to negotiations with the First Council of the French Embassy, Ms. Martina Berdychová apologises today from 17.30 for personal reasons and Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý apologises today within 19 o'clock, for work reasons. We today had a fixed item number 130, which was interrupted until the time of the Minister of Transport's presence. The Minister, I see, is already present, so this condition has been met, and we will therefore address the item number
