ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u1	174. Government bill amending Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services and on the amendment of certain laws (the Postal Services Act), as amended /German press 509/ - third reading The amendments are set out in the 509/5 Chambers of Press, delivered on 16 September 2015, and thus in time for today's negotiations. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 509/6. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, very briefly. I would like to thank all the guarantee committees that have discussed this bill and recommend it for approval. I will comment on the four amendments that are part of today's debate in the vote. If we manage to approve this instrument, it will mean stabilization of the state company Česká pošta. So I look forward to the debate, and I hope we approve the standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u3	Thank you, Minister. In an open debate, I ask Mr Petr Kudela to take the floor because he is the only one enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a wonderful day. House printing 509, amendment on postal services, solves the position of Czech Post. It regulates the position of the Czech Post, stabilizes it and I welcome this proposal. I also welcome the amendments. However, I would like to comment on the amendment under letter C of Mr Stupčuk. I think it's a clear sticker. The proposal contains an amendment to the selected provisions of Law 77/1997 on a State Enterprise, although the amendment does not open the State Enterprise Act at all. I quote: "The amendment concerns the amendment of the Act on a State Enterprise and is re-establishing the institute of division of a state enterprise by split-off." I quote this from the explanatory memorandum submitted by Mr Stupčuk. According to him, it is necessary to stress that the envisaged minor amendment to the State Enterprise Act contained in the amendment is in no way intended to modify or replace the comprehensive regulation contained in the currently planned major amendment to the State Enterprise Act, but only makes partial and entirely necessary adjustments. I want to say that House Press No. 600, which concerns a comprehensive regulation of the State Enterprise Act. That is why I believe that this amendment is indeed an sticker. I spoke with the director of the Czech Post a moment ago, who is sometimes here in the foyer. I spoke with him, he explained to me that the Czech Post has a particular one branch race, which should be separated from the Czech Post. This condition is not good. I understand this is not a good situation. However, if it lasted until this time, I believe that the situation, even if it is not good, will continue until the approval of the State Enterprise Act, which I believe will soon be discussed by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u5	I guess I was too ambitious with the debate. I thank Mr Kudel. We have one factual remark from Mr Stupčuk. Priority rights of the Minister and Vice-President of the Government of Andrej Babiš. The rapporteur and Mr Bend's priority right entered in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the speaker. I am subjectively convinced that it is not a sticker in the true sense of the word. This may appear from the point of view of formal interpretation of what the sticker is or is not. I believe that what is decisive for the assessment is always to look for the material link between individual amendments as they are loaded to the materiality. The content link is apparent because the Czech Post is a state enterprise. The Postal Services Act regulates the activities and content of the state-owned company post and I only opened the Act on the State Enterprise with my amendment, which, of course, also regulates the position of the Czech Post. So from the point of view of content, I believe that it cannot be an adhesive in the true sense of the word. We can also lean on some previous practice here. And there were a number of laws in the past period that were adopted in a similar way. It was, for example, a material as important as with Karta, when an amendment to the Employment Act was introduced into the Child Social Protection Act. What is contained in my amendment is a change which is intended to address the current shortcomings or inconsistencies of the regulation, which is generally expressed in the Civil Code and whose adjustment deficit is in the State Enterprise Act. That is, we here harmonize the general regulation of the transformation of companies, by splitting, splitting, in a way that allows for the same thing that we are allowing all companies today. Thus, we will newly allow, according to the special regulation contained in the state undertaking and state enterprises, so that there is no unjustified derogation and an unequal position of state enterprises towards other commercial corporations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u7	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš in the debate. The rapporteur will be prepared, then colleague Benda and then colleague Pilný. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the amendment of the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. In this way, it is proposed to supplement the transitional provision on the solution of the situation in which the payment of the net cost of the provision of basic services requested before the date of entry into force of this Act, which is governed by the Act as amended before the date of entry into force of this Act, was not paid to the account for the financing of basic services, so-called Compensation fund, payer paid by the Czech Telecommunications Office. In this case, it is proposed that this payment from the compensation fund be paid from the state budget through the ČTÚ within 90 days of the date of completion of the first procedure conducted in order to recover the payment to the account. I cannot agree with this proposal from the position of the Minister of Finance, since the failure to meet the Fund is, in particular, a real threat, according to previous statements by the petitioner, which would mean a noticeable increase in the requirements for state budget expenditure, beyond the agreed spending limits to cover the net costs of providing basic services incurred since 2015 and up to CZK 700 million in 2015, respectively. 600 million in 2016 and from 2017 up to CZK 500 million. The amendment to the Economic Committee does not provide an estimate of the amount of funds that the State budget will have to pay in the event of their adoption. For the sake of completeness, I add that according to § 34c para. 3 of Law No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services, an account for the financing of basic services administered by ČTÚ is not part of the state budget. On the basis of the above, therefore, I fundamentally disagree with the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee and appeal not to accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u9	I thank the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government of the Czech Republic Andrej Babiš. Now, with priority rights, the rapporteur in the debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u10	Ladies and gentlemen. For the sake of clarity, I would just like to state to Mr Kudel that he was slightly mistaken, because Mr Stupčuk's amendment is not mentioned in the Houses of Press 509/5 under letter C, but under letter B.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u11	Thank you for the clarification. Now, Mr Marek Benda, Mr Ivan Pilný, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u12	Mr Vice-President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to speak to point B, but for starters I will not forgive myself one comment on the opening words of the Minister. As you said, this law is supposed to stabilize the Czech Post, I believe, I do not understand the law factually. And yesterday, he's gonna be just as proud of the need to set up an investigation committee for the Czech Post Office, which is undoubtedly a highly destabilizing act against any enterprise, so it seems to me a little bit that the right hand doesn't know what the left is doing, or that it is unnecessary to meet the requirements of Agrotec. But that's just a comment on the Postal Services Act. [[11.40 hours]] I also wanted to mention Mr Stupčuk's amendment, which, I believe, is the right idea, but in my opinion, it is an adhesive of par excellence. I've never been a major opponent of stickers. When we were discussing the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, we said that we would not define the ban on stickers because it is difficult to name, difficult to define. However, there are some definitions already in the Constitutional Court case-law, which, in many cases, has dealt with things that have been glued to another law, and has quite clearly identified where it is and where there is no limit to the sticker. And here, with all due respect to my colleague Stupčuk and his idea, I must say that I believe that this is a sticker. The Ministry of Finance, as the founder of state-owned enterprises, bailed years ago - I don't blame the current minister for that in any way - the accompanying laws to the Civil Code, where some changes related to the Civil Code had to be made, and it had to go away. A lot of other resorts kept an eye on it, the Ministry of Finance had a feeling, as he sometimes feels, that he only follows his own laws and that he doesn't have to look at anyone else, that he doesn't care about some new civil code. Now they find themselves in the problem that the Civil Code regulates in some other way the new division, eventually the division or the division of the enterprise. I believe that we could follow the new Civil Code. Some law firms consider that it is not possible to proceed. However, I think it would be fair for the Ministry of Finance to bring an amendment to the State Enterprise Act and to say how it should be done, and not that for one selected segment of mail here in the Postal Services Act, we are giving a large amendment to the State Enterprise Act, which was not mentioned at all in the original law, should not have been amended at all and should suddenly be amended to a rather large extent in order to allow some separation of an undertaking. That's what I think is really a sticker. I draw attention to this, I recommend that with this knowledge we vote on the amendment under letter B, because I fear how I know our Senate and how I know the President of the Senate's Constitutional Legal Committee that it will certainly come back to us. And if he doesn't give it back to us, someone will put it in the Constitutional Court. So let's be careful. Now I do not object to it in substance at all, but against the form that has been chosen and still in second reading. I find it very unfortunate, and I think that the Ministry of Finance is probably making it easier for the Ministry of Finance here to go through a proper review procedure, to bring it here to the House, and to use Mr Stupčuk only as a carrier of this parliamentary initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u13	I see Minister Mládek reporting to me a point of fact, President Kalousek and Minister Chovanec. I'm asking Minister Chovanec whether he wants a right or a right of action. Proper. Then in front of my colleague Pilný, but after factual remarks. Minister Mládek on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u14	The fact is that the Ministry of Industry and Trade, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, has prepared an amendment to the State Enterprise Act, which has already been approved by the Government and which has already been delivered to this honourable assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u15	I thank Minister Mládek for his point of view. Now, a factual comment from the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u16	Thank you. In terms of the purity of the legislative process, in terms of the system, in terms of theory, Mr Benda is 100% right. I'll support his opinion. On the other hand, I would like to say that I understand the petitioner, who is in a situation where he is a professional guarantor and is entitled to issue interpretation opinions for the purposes of practice, which has been common in the past, but unfortunately in the few last years it has started to happen that if someone had acted according to the interpretation opinion of the expert guarantor, any police officer could have thought and said: "I do not agree with this interpretation opinion, and who has acted from the executive according to this interpretation opinion, in my view committed a criminal offence." And he's gonna press charges. I can name a few cases where it happened, when the law enforcement authority, part of the executive, took a 100% different position from the professional guarantor, part of the executive, and one member of the state executive began prosecuting a citizen of the Czech Republic for acting according to the methodology of the second member of the executive. This is a situation in which those dealing with public funds are really moving, logically suffering from concern, logically being undermined by their legal certainty, and then trying to catch up on proposals explicitly laid down by amendments that do not allow for double interpretation and doubts. I understand that from a human point of view. And the problem is the Attorney General, who can't give interpretation opinions to unite the procedures of law enforcement authorities. That's kind of what I'm talking to the Minister for--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u17	Mr President, you have run out of time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights in the debate, the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec and Mr Ivan Pilný is still prepared. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words on the debate that has been held. I would like to say that the standard that we are going to approve here today was born in a very difficult way. First of all, the debate with the Ministry of Finance on this matter was not easy, especially because in the future compensation for a state enterprise or possibly another holder of a postal licence is expected from the state budget. I cannot support the proposal of the Economic Committee, although I like it in substance, because of course it goes back to the years and it would mean a little bit that the ČTÚ would no longer have to collect payments from competitors into the compensation fund. Although I would like the proposal for the post office as a guarantor of the Czech Post, there was no agreement with the Ministry of Finance, and therefore I simply cannot support the proposal. In what my colleague Stupčuk proposes - I must thank him for the proposal for a material reason. Mail has ambition from 1. 1. split the split race, that is to remove it from the structure of the Czech Post. This race would get into the structure of the Ministry of the Interior for one simple reason. We are constantly being attacked as part of the so-called in-house award that we are violating European law. This is our ambition, why we need to finish the division of the branch race that was there, which was left over to get into a situation legally comfortable, because at least we have already faced several lawsuits on this matter. Our ambition was to create it from 1. 1. 2016, which, of course, will not go according to the law referred to by Mr Mládek. I don't suppose it'll be effective from 1. 1st next year and that it will be possible to apply it to this case. That's why I thank my colleague Stupčuk. I support his proposal, thank you for it, and I ask you very much to support me, even if I understand your view that it may seem like an adhesive to someone. The question whether the Civil Code can be used - through Mr President to Mr Benda. Well, based on the legal analysis we have, we can't. We've done a very thorough analysis, and we just can't use it here. We believe that this path is blind and we cannot take it. As far as the other proposals are concerned, I will then express myself in the context of the vote. Thank you for the debate. Again, the agreement with the Ministry of Finance was not about the amendment of the Economic Committee, and therefore my position will be negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u19	Thank you, Minister. Mr Benda's point of fact, and then Mr Pilný's proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u20	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just have a brief response to what the Minister says - we need it. That's probably true. But I'm just saying, what happens when the standard gets to the Constitutional Court and cancels it from a purely formal point of view that it's a sticker? You will be separated according to the law, which was invalid from the beginning because it was invalid approved. This can eventually lead you and your people exactly where Minister Kalousek described it, to the prosecution of some obscure prosecutors who think they don't see this procedure. I'm just warning you about the law that we know is threatening to abolish, and we're going to follow it, you're putting yourself at risk, including the risk of criminal prosecution at the end of the day. Let's be careful about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u21	Now, the rapporteur would still take advantage of his priority right. So please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the negative opinion of Minister Chovanec on the amendment under point A, which is therefore an amendment to the Economic Committee, but initially I did. This amendment was not consulted or dealt with by the Ministry of Finance, but there was a complex discussion with the Czech Television and I submitted this amendment with 100% support from the Czech Television. Now, let me explain briefly why. In fact, the law does not treat the situation if certain payments to the account for the financing of basic services could not be collected or recovered properly and in a timely manner from specific payers, for example because, in the period following the decision on shares, the payer's disappearance would occur without a legal successor or claim would otherwise become impregnable. Various reasons for the payer's insolvency on an account for financing basic services may be more in practice. In the event that the payer does not properly fulfil his payment obligation or cannot fulfil his payment obligation, the holder of the postal licence providing the basic services would, therefore, now be a Czech post office, a state enterprise, namely, have not really compensated all the net costs which constitute an unfair burden for him and which were granted to him as justified under the administrative decision. Therefore, the processes associated with the disappearance of the payer without a legal successor are very long, as well as the write-off of the claim cannot be easily executed over time. If the payer exists or an insolvency proceedings have been initiated against him, the full compensation of the net costs should be provided for the holder of the postal licence within a reasonable period of time. In the current wording of the law - and now I am returning to why I have tabled this amendment. However, in the current wording of the Postal Services Act, there is no instrument whereby the holder of the postal licence could be reimbursed the amounts in question. As the only source in this case comes the reflection from the relevant part of the state budget, with the fact that it has been implemented. [[remuneration?]] In order to ensure the return of funds, the Office shall also impose a claim, replaced by a payment from the State budget, on the relevant payer and, in the event of recovery, return to the State budget. In this respect, I believe that this amendment has considerable rationality. And once again, I cannot agree with the Ministry of the Interior's approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u23	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Ivan Pilný is now in due course in the debate. Please calm down, it's quite a serious matter. Please, Mr. Pilný has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues, I will not comment now on the principle of the universal postal service law, which I have already said here, about the fact that the sums to be paid by the post are encoded directly into the law, albeit as a maximum, and at the same time not accompanied by any strategy that would actually reduce the pressure on the universal service. But I voted against Mr Stupčuk's proposal on the Economic Committee. Some arguments have already been made here by Minister Mládek. There is a House press that addresses this issue in general, so there is no rush. I will not comment on whether or not this is an adhesive, this will, of course, be dealt with by the Constitutional Court and the associated complications. But I'd like to ask Minister Chovanec why the hurry. What will the company do, how will it manage, how will it operate, and who will finance it? Since I do not know, and I did not receive an answer, I voted against this amendment on factual grounds, not only for legal reasons, because I do not know how to judge them well enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u25	I thank Mr Pilný. Now in the debate, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u26	Thank you for the floor. I will mention two things in my speech, eventually get to the amendment that I tabled here under the letter D. But first, the debate. So basically, we agree that it's a sticker, but the translator says he needs it. That's what I call a real system approach. First of all, it may not be January 1st. It doesn't have to be January 1st, that's a yes, because if we pass the law, the split is signed by a business court and we don't know when it's going to be written down. So it might as well be February 1st or March 1st. With the knowledge of the functioning of the upper chamber, I guarantee you that the moment the amendment passes, the guardian of the stickers, the chair of the Senate's constitutional law committee, by the way, the party colleague of the Minister, will definitely bring it back to us. So let's not think about speeding things up, because we're going to slow down the legislative process by getting the Senate to return the bill in case of a sticker. But I don't think it's important what's behind it, what's behind it, what's in such a hurry. It's the idea of having a new state enterprise and using money on high-speed internet. I think the material is also running in the commentary process. We as opposition have access to eKLEP, so of course we know about it. And it's exactly the area I'd like to debate, because I think it's an area to be used by commercial private entities, not to compete with a state enterprise against this functioning market. So it's a sticker, we don't doubt it. The ideal way not to delay this is if the Member proposes to withdraw his amendment today, we can support the discussion of this law by voting as the House and the legislative process will really be simplified. Otherwise, it will definitely come back from the Senate with the sticker, because the President of the ÚPV is quite relentless and we have already experienced it in various parliamentary periods, that he is doing this. So those who defend it should say why they're in such a hurry, what they want to do with it, and that, eventually, when you look at it, they're like usual when they rush, big money. And that's the money to build high-speed internet infrastructure. That's not what's been said here in the debate, although many of the people involved know it, and so far they've been quite silent about it. And now on the amendment to point D, which I have put forward, on which the Economic Committee has taken a negative position on my surprise. I, there, draw attention to the legislative confusion in the law which already applies to be fair to the Minister of the Interior, has nothing to do with the current proposed amendment, when the law states "usually includes postal submissions'. And even according to legislative rules, words which are not normative in nature should not be the content of the law. When we translate what "usually" means, I understand that sometimes it does and sometimes it doesn't. But what kind of law does it say that sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't? What is the normative nature of this? I would also ask the Minister, because I think that his ministry also gave a negative opinion when it was discussed in the Economic Committee, to consider it further and, if he insists, to explain to us how in this case, for example, those who are doing the interpretation that Mr Kalousek spoke of interpret the word 'usually' - always, sometimes, at 70 percent, at 60 percent, when it is still, and when it is not usually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u27	Thank you. Now with priority rights Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I signed up for the debate because, unlike those who have been having such a nice discussion about what a sticker is and what is not, I have stood before the Constitutional Court several times and justified how The Chamber of Deputies adopted the law and whether or not we regard it as a label. I don't know how much it is necessary in the Czech Post to deal quickly with the division of the state enterprise, but in any case the Chamber of Deputies is a budgetary souvenir, it is not the Ministry of Finance, it is not the Ministry of the Interior, it is not a court or state enterprise. After all, we, as a budgetary suburb, will be discussing the revenue and expenditure of the state budget in a moment, and some here act in such a way that the more we humiliate state-owned enterprises that operate in every normal market economy as well as private enterprises, the better. [[12.00 hours]] But it's not like that. Our responsibility is different. We and those state-owned enterprises must create conditions for them to function in this market environment. And the Czech Post is such a business. Look at Deutsche Post, the post office that works in the market environment of the Federal Republic. Does the Bundestag humiliate it against other undertakings carrying out postal or delivery services? Well, it's not like that. So don't tell me that in the open law on the state enterprise Česká pošta we cannot amend the law on the state enterprise. That's not true. It's not a sticker. It cannot even be labeled because we are dealing with specific conditions for the specific status of a state enterprise. Whether it's in a hurry or not, it's not my business. I say this purely from the point of view of law theory and how the Constitutional Court will have to judge it. If we've been dealing with a specific matter on a specific matter, and so if we've opened it with the state enterprise, because we're opening it in the state enterprise law, we can, of course, open the law that's general. And here, of course, is the law on Czech Post, state enterprise, lex specialis against the general law on state enterprise. So it's not gonna be a sticker. And please do not threaten those of you who were not before the Constitutional Court and did not justify the procedure of the Chamber of Deputies that the Senate or the Constitutional Court will cancel. It's not a thing. On the contrary. The Constitutional Court always leads us to consider whether we should have so much amendment of a law in one year or whether we should do something compactly in the problem that we are dealing with. In this respect, I believe that it cannot be labeled as an adhesive. And I say, I don't care, and I don't even know how much the Minister of the Interior, from the point of view of his duties as Chief Administrative Officer in the area which he has under Law 2/1969, according to the competence standard, in charge of the Czech Post, says - I need it now or tomorrow or later. It doesn't matter. The important thing is whether we want to humiliate those state enterprises against other entities as legislators on the one hand in the market environment. In that case, each of you feel guilty about how you will vote in the state budget about it or about it. Because in this respect, we are responsible for the fact that those state companies, including the state company Česká pošta, are at all able to operate in that market environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I have two factual points here. First of all, President Stanjura, Mr Stupčuk after him. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u30	So that the great supporter of state enterprises, Vice-President Filip, is not so upset. I didn't threaten or say we'd give anything to the Constitutional Court. So we can understand each other. Unlike the last opposition that ran there six times a year when she lost the political vote, we haven't used it once in two years and we're not even talking about it. We're talking about the law. I'm sorry, maybe Vice-President Filip will instruct me, but the law is not the law on the state enterprise Česká pošta lex specialis, which we are discussing, for which someone proposed to amend the general law on the state enterprise. The law is called, and it's about something else. It is not about the state enterprise Česká pošta. I'm sorry. Look - the amendment to the Postal Services Act is called the 509 printing. Not about the state enterprise Česká pošta. We just don't negotiate that law today. And since, Mr Vice-President, through another Vice-President, you mentioned Deutsche Post, you might be able to tell us something about Deutsche Post's ownership structure. And our intention is not to humiliate state-owned enterprises, as you misconceived from my speech, but not to create unjustified advantages for state-owned enterprises. And that's a big difference. We want to have the same conditions as possible for everyone on the market regardless of the owner. So we are protesting if we think that the private sector is being put at a legislative disadvantage at the expense of a state enterprise, and we do not want it to be the other way around. We don't want to make it very clear. And the fact that it's a sticker, that's just the truth, and someone can say whatever they want. I remember the debate, especially in the government coalition, when they were here, saying that they would definitely fight the stickers. I'm in. And today it turns out in the vote who's just saying it and who's really gonna forget it when it suits him. Moreover, when the proposal that Minister Mládek was referring to is in progress, we will not cause any major delay. [[The President draws attention to the time]] And as I was saying, the decisive day for the establishment of a company by split-up may not be January 1st of the calendar year, but any other day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u31	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Stupčuk. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I just wanted to thank Vice-President Filip for the interpretation of what this sticker is or is not. As a lawyer, I identify with him about the scale, I just didn't dare, because it's my first term of office, giving you some deeper analysis or interpretation of this problem. So I fully support the interpretation of the Vice-President, and in that sense, of course, if this is interpreted in a purely formal way, as President Stanjura does, then the sticker will always be everything. But as I was saying, that thing is relative, and the Constitutional Court always judges these things not only in terms of form, but also in terms of the material and the connection between the various bills. And here it was made clear. Of course, the State Enterprise Act is general in relation to the Post Office Act. So, in this sense, the context of content is traceable here, and it should undoubtedly be - and, in my view, it will be - taken into account later in the next legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u33	Thank you. And now with priority rights, Minister chovanec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not yet responded to my colleague, Benda, by your means, to the investigative committee at the post office. If our coalition partner has a legitimate demand that this committee can make things more transparent, I'm not gonna stop him. That's standard coalition cooperation, isn't it? You also alerted me to one thing I have to apologize for. Yesterday the servers happened that the ODS is a toxic side. That's what I meant only in the case of the chairman of the commission, and that's because you had the Home Secretary who had the mail under them. Otherwise, I consider the ODS to be a standard democratic party. About the interior ministers behind the ODS. The split race was created under the head of the post office in 2012. I'm the one who was still walking on the ministerial mushrooms, and you can't ask me to do it. And since then, there has been a constant problem with the in-house, because at that time - I don't know exactly who the Home Secretary was in 2012 and it almost doesn't matter - then there was a huge ambition for this business or this part of the mail to address primarily the IT segment for the state, for the police, for the firefighters - and that is happening today. There was a huge amount of work he couldn't handle at the breakaway race. When I got in, we were just putting out some problems to be able to finish. I'll remind you of European money, I'm sorry. I want to remind you, for example. Project Roof, common IT systems for police, firefighters, to which relatively significant European funds have been drawn. And we do not have ambition, colleagues from the right part of the political spectrum, to compete with the standard market environment. We don't. But we need to finish the projects that are there. We have the ambition to continue to do projects for the police, for the firefighters, for the transports, for the state. That's what I think is the task of this new business that should be cut off. Constitutional court. I wouldn't presume his decision, but even if he accidentally cancels that part of the law, it doesn't affect the establishment of that state enterprise. It's just gonna happen and it's gonna work. I don't think there should be any problem. You know, the Constitutional Court doesn't break things back, at least that's our legal position. Through Mr President to colleague Stanjur. Well, one. 1. we have this ambition because it is easier - for accounting and other things. But it could happen at any other time. You're right, I can't disagree with you here. I don't think it's a stick. I ask the House to approve this for a simple reason. When some companies turned to the UOHS as part of the in-house attack, the ÚOHS also identified this solution, an integral part of the Czech Post, as a temporary and inappropriate solution. That's why we're going this way. [[12.10 hours]] That we should set aside an ambitious race very quickly in order to raise some money for the fast Internet and destroy the competitive environment in the Czech Republic is a very courageous idea to which I cannot join. We have within the framework of Broadband, as it is called, the only ambition, colleagues, and it is that the state has insight into data transmissions, and it has safe data transmissions. We don't have an ambition to take a private job. We don't have ambition to enter where I don't think the state should enter. For example, we say one crucial thing, that since 2009, there should have been a register of passive networks here. It's not today. The coordinator's not here. And don't be mad at me when I came back from Slovakia, for example on the eastern border, where the state really protects the border very well with Ukraine, the transmission of data on optical networks has under it the Ministry of Interior, the police - in defined segments. They just order the capacity. And if they order it at the private house, or a piece of the net is theirs, or it's regional, or it's urban, it doesn't matter. Our only ambition, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, is that where the market fails, in white places where the market simply does not work, the state will come and the high-speed Internet will also be involved where white places are. And today the market is talking about not being able to involve the countryside, where there is little population density, little clients for television, fast Internet, anything else. That's the only ambition the Homeland has. I think it's fair and fair and it's in the interests of this state. If you think otherwise, let's have a debate about it. I'd be happy to sit down with you. It's a long story. Let me show you the whole structure of how it went down. But the last thing we want to do is compete with the market. I don't think that's the task of the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u35	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First of all, President Stanjura, Mr Pilný after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u36	I asked the question. I thank you for your answer, we will watch the state not enter the market. I agree not to enter where the market works. If the principle is maintained, we will definitely be in agreement. Minister, I would only ask for an answer to the negative opinion, the D, on the "usually" issue, because it seemed to me really not as political, but rather a substantive objection that those who are to proceed with it are difficult to deal with the word as a rule. I don't want to burden the debate with the in-house solution today. But I don't think it's that easy to say that in-house solution is what we want. I understand that you're going to do the surgery you want to do, so that you're going to legalize or increase the certainty that what's called an in-house solution is going to go through with the UOHS. But we have to ask ourselves if this in-house solution brings what we want. And there's no time for that today. There is not even a law we are discussing today, but we certainly have to have a debate because very often it works by entering something in-house, that is, without a tender, but those who get it then buy individual partial services and sub-contracts. And I don't like that as a principle that's being used. Maybe in some small matter, but if the ambition is to solve big software, application projects in-house, then I simply have doubts whether the state is the right one to do it, and how in-house will then end up with the final solution. But I understand that this is not open to this law, the general debate on in-house solutions that are legal is under legislation, but we should have a debate when they are appropriate and when they are not. I am certainly looking forward to such a debate and we will definitely contribute to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Pilný. With priority rights, then, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I certainly did not want to open up the issue of high-speed connection and Internet financing with this law on postal services. However, I must comment on what has been said here. Support 14 billion. is from the operational programme of the European Union, which is clearly, and will probably be addressed by the European Union, does not allow the construction of networks that serve public or public administration. That's the first problem that's there. And the second problem. If this money is used in white places or elsewhere by using optical networks by other users, we are getting into a position that we already had here, and this is Český Telecom. That's exactly what he was standing in this situation. I was the chairman of the board back then. The rights of alternative operators were significantly restricted. Of course, it was also a great space for some corner maneuvers to get to these networks. I'm sorry, it's just a matter of fact about what was said here. I did not want to open this problem, it will also be dealt with by the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u39	Thank you. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I will support Mr Stupčuk's amendment. I decided to do so on a mature basis, even though I hesitated for a long time. But at the same time I have to tell the Home Secretary that the 14 billion. CZK, and more or less everything before me, has already been said by Mr. Chairman of the Pilný Economic Committee, and should they happen to be going to the stage of redistribution in some branching company of Czech Post, we will follow closely and use all possible tools, including in cooperation with important professional organisations. We simply cannot allow the money, as has happened many times in this Republic, to go where they should not go, and not to be completely wasted. It's really a huge sum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u41	Thank you. At this point, I am no longer seeing anyone enrolled in the debate. In that case, I am ending the debate. I am asking the final words of the appellant and rapporteurs. The plaintiff takes his word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with an apology to my colleague Stanjur, through you. The answer is that we think that the proposal cancels part of the transposition of the postal directive. That's the main reason. I'm gonna give you a brief legal analysis so we know what we're talking about. I would also like to ask your colleague Pilný if he would like to discuss the issue of broadband, because it sounds and resonates today, even if it is not the fundamental subject of today's debate, if it is not possible to convene a seminar to be held by the Economic Committee. I'd be happy to send out our specialists. We have been on this issue for a very long time and we would like Members to know in detail what is leading us to this. Please, it's not about us redistributing the ambition 14 billion. That's not true! And it was never true! We have one single ambition to make high-speed internet available in the most extreme places of the Czech Republic. And otherwise the need for high-speed internet delivery - 14 billion. is only part of the amount. Private will have to invest. And the ideal we're aiming for is somewhere between 60 and 80 billion. There's a number somewhere where even a private person has to step up. I'm just worried, and now don't be offended that even in the Upper Lower, people deserve to have high-speed Internet even though there are very few clients to buy some services. That's what we wanted to do in a state enterprise. That's our part. Our role is not to tear down the market where it works. Unfortunately, many have written about it, many have said. And I am asking Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic who are interested in hearing us. I will ask Mr Pilný if he would be so kind as to convene a meeting of the Economic Committee very soon, according to his time. We're gonna get there in full force, and we're gonna defend our position. Otherwise, thank you for the debate. I'll take it as a matter of fact. I will ask once again for Mr Stupčuk's proposal to be supported, but it is up to your mature consideration, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u43	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur, Valenta, if he wants to take the final floor for the Economic Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before the vote itself on amendments and amendments to the law as a whole, allow me to recapitulate very briefly. The Government's bill was delivered to Members on 3 June this year under code 509/0. The Committee on Guarantees has been designated by the Economic Committee and the amendment has been allocated to the Committee on Budgetary and Public Administration and Regional Development. During the first reading of June 17, a motion was made to reject the law, which was supported by 27 Members and therefore this proposal was not adopted. During the second reading of 15 September, a proposal was also tabled to suspend the amendment, but even this proposal was not accepted by the House. On 3 September this year, a guarantee committee was discussed, i.e. an economic committee, and amendments were also put to the vote. These were four, as we have been discussing all along, with three of them under the letters A, B, C being accepted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the amendment under the letter D by Mr Stanjury did not approve the guarantee committee. [[12.20 hours]] Before the vote itself, I shall always briefly outline the content of each of them. All amendments are also available to you in the 509/5 House Press, which was delivered to you on 16 September. For the sake of completeness, I would add that the amendments under letters B, C, D were tabled at second reading. For the first time, the amendment under point A has been addressed by the Economic Committee at its 25th meeting on 2 September and has adopted a positive opinion on it, which can be found in its resolution. 169, House Press 509/3. [[Big noise in the hall.]] As far as today's debate is concerned, there have been 11 Members, including Ministers, Vice-President of the Government, some of them repeatedly. The discussion, as Minister Chovanec said before me, was conducted in a fairly correct and factual spirit. And now I would ask you, Mr President, to initiate the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u45	Before I do so, I will ask whether Mr Rykala will take the final floor for the Committee on Budgets and, if necessary, Mr Horáček for the Committee on State Administration and Regional Development. Isn't that right? It's not like that. In that case, we will indeed proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure and then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u46	Thank you. As you said, first we should vote for the procedure and then proceed to four votes on the amendments in question. Finally, we should vote on the standard as a whole. So first, the procedure. The procedure should consist of an individual vote on Amendment A, B, C, D. I ask you to start voting on the procedure now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u47	I would add that - and we will vote on the proposal as a whole on the fifth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u48	Yes, but I said that before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u49	Yes. Initiating the vote and asking who agrees to the procedure proposal as it was read, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 225, 153 Members and Members, for proposal 140, against no one. The procedure has been approved. We can therefore now vote on individual proposals. I'm registering the check-out request. So first, I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u50	First of all, we would vote on the amendment referred to in point A. [[President: Your position?]] As I outlined, I'd always say short content. [[Objection from the diaper. - Please.]] I'll say it one more time just in case, of course. It contains a change to the transitional provisions, with the ongoing system of payment of net costs from the existing fund being secured by funds from the state budget in cases where the ČTÚ fails to recover payments from postal service providers obliged to contribute to the compensation fund. After recovery, state resources will be returned to the state budget. The opinion of the Economic Committee as a guarantee is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u51	Mr. Secretary? The microphone isn't on. [[After switching on the microphone, the Minister says: Negative.]] Okay. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? We have a vote with order number 226, 151 Members and Members, for proposal 33, against 106. This proposal was rejected. Otherwise, for the record, I cannot, of course, prohibit you, Mr rapporteur, but otherwise all Members have material in front of them, where it is contained, what the amendments relate to, so it is up to you only if you decide to continue to present them. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u52	I know that, of course, Mr President, but I think that, in the importance of this standard, it must be repeated so that everyone knows very precisely what they are voting on. [[- Please continue.]] We will now vote on the amendment under letter B. This concerns the amendment of the Act on a State Enterprise and newly introduces the institute of division of a state enterprise by split-off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u53	Initiating vote. [[Room fuss.]] Sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. First of all, say your position, rapporteur. [[Agreed.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I find the previous vote confusing. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 228, registered 150 Members and Members, for proposal 95, against 39. This proposal has been approved. Please, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u54	The third vote will be on the amendment under letter C. He only specifies § 34 para. By clearly stating that the other net costs above the thresholds laid down are not considered to be an unfair financial burden.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u55	Your position? [[Agreed.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 229, 153 Members and Members, for proposal 133, against 2. The proposal has been approved. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u56	Before the last vote, the vote on the amendment shall be D. The essence of the amendment is to delete the words that were added to the original version of the Act when it was amended on 1. 1. 2013 implemented by Law No. 221/2012 Sb.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u57	Thank you. Your position? [[Disagreeable.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 230; 153 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 37, against 108. This proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u58	The last vote will be the vote on the whole amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-005-174.u59	Thank you. I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 29/2000 Coll., on postal services and amending certain laws, as amended, according to the House press 509 and as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Postal Services Act]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, as it has been tabled, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 231, with 152 Members registered, in favour of proposal 109, against 16. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. That concludes the discussion of this point. Opening point
