ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-006-026.u1	26. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 407/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Marcel Chládek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-006-026.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce you to the law on teaching staff 563/2004. The purpose of the proposal for this amendment is to lay down special rules for the conclusion of contracts with teaching staff for a fixed period. [[Noise in the hall.]] This is because in the Czech Republic there was a practice where teachers were released for holidays and were again recruited 1. 9. It is also called chaining contracts, when this contract was repeatedly concluded during the school year, then the educators had to either go to the employment office after the holiday was chosen, or look for a part-time job for that time before again 1. 9. they had a new contract. This proposal for chaining prohibits the minimum duration of employment for a fixed-term pedagogical worker for at least 12 months. There are exceptions, of course, two. The first exception concerns compensation for a temporarily absent pedagogical worker due to obstacles to work, e.g. long-term illness, maternity leave, etc. The second exception concerns the negotiation of employment with a teacher who is not qualified under the Education Act. The accompanying rule is then to shorten the overall duration of the fixed-term employment between the Contracting Parties for a maximum period of three years. The effectiveness of the bill is proposed on the 15th day following its publication. So much for the introduction and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-006-026.u3	I thank the Minister of Education and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Nina Nováková. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-006-026.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, this time I can, as rapporteur, not express my position yet. In principle, the Minister here has everything to change Act No. 562/2004 Sb. He's already said it. Indeed, the practice that forces some schools not to accept teaching staff for an indefinite period has its reasons, because many schools may be innovative, try to introduce new subjects, seminars, etc. And she's not sure that's gonna stay part of their teaching plan. Therefore, it is logical that they are trying to conclude a fixed-term employment. But another thing, as the Minister said here, and this is indeed a very negative phenomenon, I know from practice that such a teacher is a teaching worker from September to June, and if he does not have another employment relationship, he is actually unemployed during the holidays. I think it's very demotivating for the teacher. It's really demotivating. That is why it is certainly right for this possibility of a fixed-term employment to change in two directions. The one direction is therefore that it is not possible to close only for the school year, i.e. September to June, but for at least the twelve months to cover the teaching staff during the holidays. And the second thing is, this whole thing can be done three times at most. This is without prejudice to the possibility of a shorter period of time with a worker, in justified cases where we know that he is a long-term teacher and in three months the probability of his return is already. So this is fine. If you decide to let it pass at first reading and order the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, then surely there we will discuss the one part, and this is an opportunity to conclude a fixed-term employment relationship with regard to the skills or unqualifiedness of workers. But otherwise, everything the Minister said is actually exhausting short information. It deals with a practice that is not positive and which changes in a positive way by this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-006-026.u5	Thank you, Mrs Nováková. I'm opening a general debate that I'm not registering an application for at the moment... [[After a while.]] If there is no application, I will end the general debate. I'm asking for final words. There's no interest in final words. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and, in the context of the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose that we order the bill to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. So we will vote on the commandment to this committee as a guarantee. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 116 vote, 150 Members and Members signed up, 128, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss science, education, culture, youth and physical matters as a guarantee committee. I'm ending reading this bill first. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
