ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u1	The combined debate on paragraphs 1 and 2 / House prints 513 and 514/ Please, Mr Fiala, who is claiming priority rights. Please, you have the floor. The President of ODS Stanjura will prepare himself, also with priority rights. I'm sorry. Mr. Vice-President Gazdík and then Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club will appear before you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, to the context of my speech. I wanted to argue here last week against the approval of an emergency meeting on electronic sales records. As everyone or most of you probably remember after that week, I didn't have the opportunity to make all my arguments here. Of course, I could legitimately do that by repeating the part you've already heard here, both because without repeating knowledge, and I would like you to really know our arguments, but of course also because my speech has some logical structure and it would be appropriate that you hear the beginning before you hear the end. However, it would not be dignified for me, it would not be dignified for you, the Chamber of Deputies, and I do not want to join those who repeatedly lower the dignity of the Chamber of Deputies here, so I will not do so. I have added a number of other arguments to my speech, so you will not hear the part you have already heard again in the same form. I would also like to add to that the context and the procedural matters that - I am still hearing from the YES part of the club, the YES movement, that there is no debate at third reading. It was heard here again from the Minister. Just for the record. Paragraph 95 of the Rules of Procedure clearly states that a debate is held at the third reading and only in the second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. 2 is supplemented by what proposals may be made in this debate. So the debate is taking place. However, just to be clear, we are not yet in the debate, the debate has not been opened and we are speaking -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u3	The debate has been opened and you are the first speaker in the debate, Mr Member. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u4	I'm sorry. Yes. The debate has therefore been opened, but for the time being, those who have priority rights are speaking. However, whether the person who has the right of priority or the person who does not have the right of priority will speak, each Member shall have the right to speak and argue in the debate, as the Rules of Procedure so provide. And only if it makes a proposal can it make legislative technical adjustments or propose a return to second reading. This is what Section 95 tells us, but it does not tell us anything about the fact that we cannot argue within the framework of the debate. So much for order. And now my argument against electronic sales log. I, too, as the Minister, will refute lies, I may not quote exactly, lies, half-truths and untruths, but entirely from a different side than what Minister Babiš thought he was doing here. Last time I told you and I will remind you again that the current government, by introducing electronic sales records, is trying to pass on the obligation that the State has, i.e. tax collection, to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, because it does not carry out this obligation itself, or does the Ministry of Finance feel that it does not carry out its duty adequately. I don't think so, and apparently, so do many of the Treasury employees. It's the other way around. The state currently receives regular information from all entrepreneurs and businessmen about their business, has this information at its disposal and can act accordingly. Officials live in the same municipalities as entrepreneurs, they know their behavior, they know who acts honestly, who may not, they can conduct checks accordingly, and they can proceed accordingly. Here I would quote the Director of the Income Tax Department of the General Financial Directorate, which stated - I quote: "We know our tax entities. Territorial workplaces often face the fact that they have a lot of information, including from sources other than internal databases only." That's what I think is a clear quote that shows my words. The state has enough information in this case, officials know their tax entities, they know who works, who is honest, they can act accordingly, and they don't need any other system. It is therefore clear that the State has sufficient capacity and has appropriate appropriate tools for tax collection and there is no need to create new instruments. Another question, of course, is whether the State is making sufficient use of these instruments. The electronic record of sales is, of course, we can say that this is another tool to improve tax collection. But he's a tool that's a little different from those standard ones, because it's kind of a horizontal restriction, and, as we see from those experiences from abroad, the only country where electronic sales records work at all, so it's a tool that can't even bring about a substantial increase in tax collection. Moreover, we know that from our analyses or from the analyses of our bodies, the Supreme Audit Office and other official institutions, that even in the most optimal case, the electronic record of sales in its effects could relate to about seven percent of the potential of the grey economy, up to seven percent, so the entire robust tool that we will try to implement here is maximum, and if it works perfectly, as it will not, it can touch up to seven percent of the economy, but the grey economy that exists in the Czech Republic. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Here we come to the first fundamental flaw of the e-booking of sales law. Thus, the solution to the problem, the alleged problem of tax evasion, is treated in a way that is excessively restrictive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u5	Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you to remain calm. I ask that the present giver wait until after the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, however pre-Christmas, but please pay attention to the President of the ODS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u6	Thank you. So it's a tool that's overly restrictive, across the board, restricts, without exception, all entrepreneurs, businessmen, in order to prevent the illegal behavior of some small, undefined, probably existing minorities. But in order to hit that minority, we're creating an area system that affects everyone. The state chooses a very comfortable solution for itself, a solution where the illegal behaviour of a small minority will limit everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u7	Once again, please - I apologise, Mr President - once again, I ask the Chamber of Deputies for peace and once again, I ask the gift-giving people to put an end to their activities. Otherwise, I will be forced to interrupt the House of Deputies. Ambassador, please attend to the House meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u8	I mean, for those who didn't catch the last sentences. [[Laughs from members of the YES.]] This area restriction will affect all entrepreneurs and tradesmen, only because there is an assumption that there is a small minority that behaves illegally, a minority that is not clearly defined. And the state here is choosing a very comfortable solution for itself, instead of intervening against the minority with the means at its disposal - as I have already shown here, even state officials dealing with tax collection are convinced that they have the funds at their disposal - so that instead of using the funds, the state chooses the solution that it wants to limit everyone. It is for those who want to imagine it somehow, so it is about as logical a procedure as if the state had decided to place cameras in every household to prevent domestic violence. You probably think that's absurd. Yes, it's absurd, but you're thinking the same way in the case of electronic sales records, when you want to control everyone and priori, because someone is probably not fulfilling their tax liability. In this example, I also want to show you that the solution that is chosen here is morally unacceptable, but that it is very likely that it also contradicts legal principles. It contradicts, above all, the principle of proportionality. The principle of proportionality, I may not have to tell you this, but I will remind you that the principle of proportionality is a general principle of a liberal democratic state, a principle that expresses the individual's priority and the priority of individual freedom before the state, as we can read not only in professional literature, but also in several findings of the Constitutional Court, which we can also consider as professional literature, however, literature which is very serious and binding. Thus, according to the Constitutional Court's finding, the principle of proportionality must be promoted, protected and defended in a liberal democratic state. And it also follows from the principle of proportionality that, if the state has more options, it must use the one most sensitive to the rights and freedoms of the persons to whom the legislation is addressed. It is precisely because the general principle is the priority of the individual and his freedoms before the state. And if there are to be more options and if it has to use the one that is most sensitive to rights and freedoms, it must always use those that are gentle. And that is clearly not the case in the case of electronic sales records, because the possibilities for good tax collection are completely different and it is not the area restrictions. The degree of disproportionateness, and therefore also the violation of the principle of proportionality of this legal proposal, is also apparent from the fact that the whole proposal is based on its reasoning, and we have heard it here again from the Minister of Finance, to fight against the grey economy, but, and that is to say, I said that number here in my previous speech and it is common knowledge: the share of the grey economy in the Czech Republic has been around 15 percent in the long term, which is below 18% of the average of the countries of the European Union and is close to Germany with 12 percent. And here I'd like to explain, because this term gray economy is fencing, and how we're going to fight the gray economy, if we put in place electronic sales records, we're still hearing it over and over again, so here let me take a little turn to the rules or the essence of the phenomenon that we call the gray economy, and what the gray economy can actually do is what it has to do with that gray economy. Many studies, including OECD analyses, conclude that increasing the level of sanctions and restrictions or intensifying other forms of discouragement, which is the case that we are discussing here, i.e. the introduction of an EET, i.e. that intensifying restrictions or other forms of discouragement in fact further displaces the internal motivation of people to act reciprocally, i.e. to receive their civic responsibilities or to take steps to promote the general good. I mean, for example, pay taxes, 'cause that's the way it's supposed to be. So, in other words, a number of international studies, including OECD analyses, show that if you increase restrictions across borders, it will not lead to a greater willingness for people to pay taxes, to act in such a way as to meet their mutual obligations, but to achieve the opposite. This is illustrated by a number of studies, studies considered relevant, studies taken seriously. These include, for example, years of research into two Austrian and German economists Lars Feld and Friedrich Schneider, where they are literally said, quote: "Empirical evidence of the success of deterrent measures', and here we have heard that this e-booking measure is considered to be a deterrent, i.e. a deterrent measure, 'are weak. Measures in the tax field and deregulation are clearly working much better." Therefore, in their list of factors affecting the size of the grey economy, these authors do not even specify the deterrent measures of the EET type. So once again, the argument of those authors, L and Schneider is that if we want to fight the grey economy, we cannot do it through deterrent measures, because they are provenly not working on empirical facts, but we have to do it in tax and deregulation. And that's where it works. Moreover, the proposals of the Civil Democratic Party are in this regard, and this is our solution to dealing with tax evasion. And this, by the way, is a solution that is based on relevant expert studies. The same authors, Lars Feld and Friedrich Schneider, together with Andreas Schmidt, examined how the deterrent measures worked on German data from 1974 to 2001. This is quite a time frame for the data from these studies to be considered serious. It is one of the most comprehensive studies on the reflective effect against the grey economy that we have at our disposal in professional literature. They found, i.e. Feld, Schneider and Schmidt, that - I quote - the probability of exposing a tax offense, measured by the number of companies to audit, the audit here means control from the financial office, namely his department for combating illegal economic activities, we're talking about... as I said, German cases were examined between 1974 and 2001, so we're talking about German authorities. Thus, the probability of exposing a tax offense measured by the number of companies on the audit has no effect on the size of the grey economy. This is the conclusion of these authors based on this very detailed, one of the most representative studies available to us. [[9.40 hours]] The economists in question have come to the conclusion that - I quote: "The increase in taxes and social contributions contributes by far the most important of all conceivable factors to the growth of the grey economy. " And they're quoting about 20 studies that have been done on this subject, which actually contain similar conclusions that these authors have come to. Thus, the greatest contribution to the growth of the grey economy is that taxes and social contributions are increasing, as evidenced by experts who have long-term addressed this phenomenon and have examined it on the timeline for example for more than 30 years. Taxes and levies explain up to 52 percent of the size of the grey economy in OECD countries. This data will probably be valid and difficult to question, because these figures correspond very well with the economical analysis of data from 21 highly developed OECD countries from 1990 to 2005. So here you have very clear and convincing conclusions from respected international studies that show what affects the size of the grey economy, which affects tax evasion and what, on the contrary, does not affect their reduction at all. If we continue with the arguments, either from the OECD studies or from the respected studies by Lars Feld and Friedrich Schneider, we can say that the quality of the institutions is responsible for about 17 percent of the grey economy, or, of course, in this case, rather poor quality, and another 9 percent of the grey economy is created by regulating the labour market and quality, or rather poor quality of public services. Always nine percent, i.e. labour market regulation and poor quality, or quality, if you like, public services. Other factors that may yet play a role, and which we need to count on what affects the creation of the economy, include, for example, the level of economic growth or the current unemployment rate. Of course, in the economic downturn, what economists call the substitution effect often occurs, i.e. workers who are being released in the official sphere, in the declared economy, are resorting to the grey economy, to the grey zone, to at least partially replace income loss, and this is fortunately not the case in the Czech Republic at this time. So when we look at these convincing numbers, these compelling arguments, if you don't want to believe me so hard to question the international respected and seriously taken studies that have been done in the long run, it all comes from this, if I shorten it and simplify it so that we really understand it: who wants to reduce the amount of the grey economy, must reduce taxes and levies. This is a very simple conclusion, to which we are encouraged by the analysis of the output of expert studies based on long-term monitoring of the grey economy in a number of OECD countries. And here we get back to the electronic record of sales and the problems of the very idea of what the idea is wrong and wrong. The problem is that there is a kind of measure in place here, which clearly cannot lead to a reduction in the grey economy, leaving out simpler and much more correct measures, which, as we see from foreign experience, could, on the contrary, reduce the grey economy. When I return to the argument with which the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance Babiš himself speak, we often find that the argument about electronic records of sales and its usefulness is based on Croatian experience. Of course, I already told you, it's not clear why. Why do we keep bringing up Croatia? When I talk about the grey economy, let's just remember: the Czech Republic has a long-term 15 percent, the average in the EU is some 18 percent, the size of the grey economy in Croatia is 28 percent, sometimes up to 30. Simple mathematics again: the share of the grey economy in Croatia is twice the size of the Czech Republic and we are approaching, we are below the EU average, we are approaching Germany, we have nothing in common with Croatia in this area. When we look at the statistics a little dynamically, not only statically now, but look at how the numbers of the size of the grey economy are developing relative to GDP, we find that the share is falling in the Czech Republic - and it is falling without applying the practice of electronic sales records and attention, falling faster than in Croatia. And that's also important to look at the dynamic model. The share of the grey economy in the Czech Republic is falling, but the share of the grey economy in the Czech Republic is falling faster than in Croatia. In Croatia, there is an electronic record of sales that should dynamicize this process. There's no such thing. On the contrary, the Czech Republic has much better results without electronic sales records. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] In years, for those of you who like numbers and trust them, and it's not enough for you to make this argument, I'll show you the numbers. Between 2012 and 2015, the size of the grey economy decreased relative to GDP, decreased by around 5.6 % in the Czech Republic, by 5,6 percent between 2012 and 2015, while in Croatia, with an electric sales log, it was only 4.5 percent. Mr President, these numbers are very important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u9	Yes, the numbers are very important and interesting, and I ask the Chamber of Deputies to pay attention to these figures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u10	So I'll just briefly repeat the last sentence, she's very serious in terms of the argument the Treasury is making. Thus, in the Czech Republic the share of the grey economy is declining. He drops a bit in Croatia too, but in the Czech Republic the decline is more dynamic. And it is necessary to remember those numbers 5.6 % decline in the Czech Republic, 4.5 percent in Croatia for the period 2012 to 2015, while - and this is important... I wonder if you'll remember and argue with that later. Which I don't need to remind you of, because you all know, we don't have electronic records of sales in the Czech Republic, nor will we have them, and in Croatia they have it, and the effect is so bad. Let's look somewhere else, so let's not argue with what the Ministry of Finance is arguing, because I really don't like to argue with Croatia, and just by coercion, because I still hear it as an example of a functioning electronic record of sales. But let's take a look at Switzerland, which I prefer to argue, unlike other Czech politicians who like to say, "Well, we can never afford what Switzerland, Norway, will never be there." So I think we might as well be there, except we can't think that we'll never be there, that we can't reach that level. [[9.50 hours]] So let's take a look at Switzerland. In Switzerland, the share of the grey economy in GDP was 6.6%. That's fantastic, that's one of the lowest values in the world, of course. At the same time, OECD data say that the tax revenue of the state cash register, including income from social contributions, amounted to 27.1 percent of the Swiss economy in 2013. When you think of this in an international context, you realize that it is one of the lowest shares among OECD countries. In other words, it shows what I have shown you on the basis of analyses from international studies. The Švýcar, who have the lowest grey economy, are burdened with tax obligations relatively weakly compared to other economically advanced countries on our continent. Just for comparison and interest, in the Czech Republic the same share, which was somewhere around 27 percent in Switzerland, was in 2013 - 2013 I use it because Swiss data is also from 2013 - so in 2013 it was 34.1 percent, or much more than in Switzerland. However, a rather different picture will be obtained if we only raise social contributions to the gross domestic product. And suddenly we don't have the Czech Republic in any such favorable field anymore, but the Czech Republic will become 14.8%, almost 15 percent, a country with the second highest burden from all OECD countries. By contrast, Switzerland has a proportion of its social contributions of 6,7 % and is best off the OECD countries together with countries such as Ireland, Britain or Iceland. And it's interesting, and it shows again what I've shown you here in foreign studies, that not by chance a country like Britain, Ireland and Switzerland is one of the countries with the lowest share of the grey economy in the world's GDP. Thus, the figures, the facts absolutely indisputable, only as different interpretations, if we do not want to deal with them truthfully and in accordance with the rules of the game, the data clearly show that there is a correlation, there is a clear correlation between the tax burden of the economy, and of which there is a particular burden in the form of contributions and the size of the grey economy. And these are key factors based on all the studies. It is precisely the tax burden and the high burden in the form of levies that are key factors for the existence and explanatory scope of the grey economy. So the greater the burden on this side of the economy, the larger the grey zone is usually. So if we want to go somewhere to aim our efforts to reduce the grey economy in the Czech Republic, we need to aim that effort right there. This means reducing taxes, reducing taxes, simplifying the tax system, using the tools the state already has, and not introducing such a thing as electronic sales records. Although I do not like to return from Switzerland, Britain, Ireland again, briefly only, I promise, briefly, to Croatia. Because the Croatian experience - we don't have another reference point, we just don't have another model, another state where electronic sales records would work at all. So we have to use the Croatian experience. And Croatian experience clearly shows us that electronic record of sales not only reduces the grey economy as it declines in the Czech Republic, but that neither has there been a larger tax return in Croatia. The other day, at the beginning of my performance, I was able to say a few numbers. Now, I'm not going to discuss them in detail, but I'm just going to remind you of them within the context and clarity of my performance. The collection of personal income taxes in Croatia has increased briefly by 8 percent in 2013, but it has fallen again in 2014, which, if you look at it, corresponds actually to standard cyclical developments, because this has happened before - in 2010 growth by some 8.8%, in 2011 a decrease by 14 percent. So obviously the income tax of natural persons is not dependent on the introduction of electronic sales records at all, but falls within a certain cycle. However, the corporate tax collection has already clearly decreased: by 17 % in 2013 and by a further 15 percent in 2014. We are still in Croatia and we are talking about experience with electronic sales records in this country. But unfortunately, even in the case of value added tax, a better return on sales tax did not bring. VAT collection decreased by 1 % in 2013, increased by 1 % in 2014. But this one percent can rather be attributed to the increase in the reduced VAT rate, which was previously 10 %, to 13 percent. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, how from these experiences from Croatia, from this Croatian reality after the introduction of electronic sales records, do you want to derive the idea that electronic sales records will bring better tax collection. Theoretically, that's not possible. That's what I showed you on a number of foreign studies that depend on the gray economy and tax collection. And as empirically appears here, it won't work, because it doesn't work in the only state they've set up. Last time I quoted the Croatian Finance Minister Lalovac here at the Prague conference, organised by the Ministry of Finance, where he said that electronic sales records were not introduced to fill the budget. I think his words clearly confirm Croatian practice: there is simply no improvement in tax returns or better tax collection in Croatia. Unfortunately, we are building a system, or the Ministry of Finance wants to build a system that is useless, which is an area restriction, which cannot meet the goals it allegedly has, but it is a system that will be very expensive both for the state and for entrepreneurs. Let's take another look at the numbers that the Treasury has published in their various performances. Unfortunately, the numbers are clear in this case. In other cases, he does not speak clearly. But it's very clear here. The acquisition of the system will cost taxpayers some CZK 370 million. The operation itself and the costs will be some 300 million crowns each year. The state expects 400 new employees of the Financial and Customs Administration, their wages will cost us CZK 150 million each year. Well, that's a huge hundred million-dollar annual cost we all want to put into it. We want to put money in it, even if we know, and the studies are clear and the experience from abroad is clear, everything is clear that it just can't work. [[Noise in the hall.]] The burden on businessmen is the second thing. This was a burden on the part of the state. These were the costs that all taxpayers would have with it. But, of course, the burden on the business side is also serious, because whatever it is, as well as the small seller, the purchase of the simplest system of records will come to less than CZK 6,000, but to do so, it is necessary to add operating costs that can climb up to up to 30,000 extra costs per year, because they have to buy appropriate cashiers, printing printers for cashier documents, costs for regular software updates, toner, paper, maintenance, or training of employees. Well, there's just enough of that cost. And what an entrepreneur must also ensure is a high-quality internet connection and this is very important. Last time you waved some toys at me, or maybe even cell phones with a printer, but the Internet connection that happens to work here doesn't always work perfectly, but still works in the Chamber of Deputies, it doesn't work well in many places in the Czech Republic. I often move in places, on weekends where the mobile network doesn't work well at all, so I don't know how, for example, in the place where I have a cottage, I would get a business if I had to be permanently online, because it almost wouldn't be possible without some huge cost. [[10.00 hours]] Well, why is this Internet connection so important from the point of view of the businessman and businessman? Because in section 21 and 22 of the draft sales registration law, it is said that the entrepreneur himself is responsible for possible failures of connection and its quality. And that's not such a trivial obligation if you're actually responsible for having a good connection. So if you're responsible for this, you have to get one, and that can either be impossible in some places or possible, but maybe reasonably expensive. But even if it all worked out well, some 30 grand a year for a small businessman, it's really no small business, and it can really mean an existential threat to his business, it can be a problem for his family, because it's clear that small businessmen often guarantee their own property for their business and what they do affects their families significantly. I've already pointed out here, these are numbers that are more or less clear and can be read from the Ministry of Finance's materials. Unfortunately, it is clear, because the burden on both entrepreneurs and on the part of the state, i.e. taxpayers, of all of us, is quite considerable. But other numbers are not so clear anymore, and here I would expect the Ministry of Finance to be more precise after all, and if it is not able to do so, it will not be so vehemently e-booking sales, because it will not actually know what it will bring. I'm not going to go into these numbers here, just to remind you what I said last time, that at 600,000 people, the Treasury assumed some 10 to 12 billion. Moreover, the same assumption is made at 300 thousand people. So these are numbers that I really don't have to count anywhere, which I can make up because it can't sit in both cases. And it just shows that the government, despite the hundreds of million-dollar costs of introducing electronic sales records, doesn't know how much the system will bring. He openly admits that he doesn't actually have such a number available, that it didn't perform the analysis. In an interview with Lidové noviny in October, Minister Babiš himself stated that in the case of EET these are preliminary estimates - until practice shows how accurate the estimates were. So many quotes. Well, they're very inaccurate because they differ twice as much. In February 2014, the Minister of Finance also publicly expressed his intention to negotiate with the Croatian Government whether the EET system - I quote: Perhaps it did not sell us for a mouthpiece or cheaply. It turns out here that it didn't work out, or it couldn't have done it. And so today, instead of selling for a kiss, it looks like we're about to have a kiss of death for small businessmen and businessmen, which is certainly not what we can look at indifferently. The complex system that the government wants to create here will, of course, reduce the freedom of entrepreneurs and customers and will have a negative impact on the quality of their lives. As I was saying in the beginning, this is a land-based restriction, which, of course, will fall on those who do business, but also on customers. Because when we realize the quality of internet connection in a number of places in the Czech Republic, problems with it, it is clear that we will be exposed to everyday situations where it will not be easy even from the simple application that we keep hearing about here, on the phone with the printer, all of this administratively well handled and some purchases will undoubtedly complicate or extend. There is, of course, another problem that draws attention to just a more detailed view of the Croatian experience. Croatia's e-payment log registers how those who dealt with it more know, even opening hours. And that, of course, means that when you close officially at 6:00 p.m. and the customer arrives at 6:01 p.m., you have the opportunity to either not serve it or give it free of charge so you don't break the rules contained in that Croatian electronic sales log system. And if that's the case in Croatia and it's supposed to be in our country, then it means that the state here wants to determine when we can buy or not. And this, of course, is a matter which, even in other laws, appears as an idea by government or government MPs. But it's something that certainly doesn't testify or create conditions for freedom of business. And it's something we definitely have to say no to. Moreover, when we imagine the situation that Internet connection is not working well and the entrepreneur will have an obligation to prove that it did not work and why it did not work, we put the entrepreneur at a relatively high risk, because if the entrepreneur does not prove that the connection did not work, he will face a fine of up to half a million crowns, which will be decided by the civil servant, and will, of course, be decided at his sole discretion. Basically, if it's approved like this, the state will actually be able to shut down your establishment without the court's decision. I don't think such a favor should be possible in a democratic state. And the fact that we're going to allow it here through the e-booking of sales law is absolutely wrong. I would also ask here how it is possible that, thanks to this law, it will be possible to impose a fine of up to half a million crowns for an offence. And is it even conceivable that in the Czech Republic, in a free democratic state, someone should be banned from doing business differently? Business may be banned, but by decision of the court. But other than the decision of the court, it's really weird. And another question that has to do with it is how we can want a citizen, a businessman, to be responsible for something that he cannot control himself. And as I have clearly shown here, Internet connection is likely to be difficult to influence, its quality, but the entrepreneur is responsible under this law, and he will have to prove that at that moment it may not have worked and that it is not his fault. I think that in this example it can be clearly shown that the law is inadequately prepared in a number of parameters and that it requires a considerable amount of interpretational fantasy. Moreover, it strengthens the power of the state towards the business environment, restricts freedom of business, limits our personal freedom of choice. At the same time, the government was contacted by representatives of entrepreneurs and businessmen themselves to convey the specific and immediate reservations of those to be covered by the adoption of the e-booking of sales law. The adoption of the e-booking of sales law, according to business representatives, contradicts the principles of a liberal democratic state. Because here it is based on the principle of collective guilt and presumption of guilt, and it does not respect the proportionality, nor does the principle that I mentioned here, the priorities of the individual, his freedom from the state. Moreover, as I have shown, the sales record law is poorly prepared in the sense that it does not lay down clear and feasible rules and, on the contrary, provides the State with the opportunity to make arbitrary decisions. These are things that business representatives also point out. [[10.10 hours]] It is clear, then, that if I sum up their arguments that electronic records - and the arguments that I have brought here, that electronic records of sales are useless, because the state has tools for effective tax collection, it does not just use these tools. The electronic record of sales is across the board, reducing all due to a very small group of delinquents and, moreover, in a country where the share of the grey economy is relatively low and, moreover, even without electronic record of sales is decreasing. Electronic records of sales are overly restrictive, electronic records of sales violate the principle of proportionality, according to which the state should always use the funds most sensitive to the fundamental rights and freedoms of private individuals, which is not happening in this case, because we already have other instruments available to us by which we could achieve, perhaps, a higher tax collection, but certainly not an electronic record of sales. Electronic sales records are also discriminatory. Not only unnecessary, superficial, overly restrictive, but also discriminatory, because its purpose is supposed to be, allegedly, the settlement of the business environment, but rather the EET favours large companies, which will inevitably have exceptions from this system. It will burden a number of small entrepreneurs, some to liquidate, as the Croatian experience also shows, which cannot be taken lightly. Electronic record of sales is also expensive, because, as I have shown here, the cost of the state, the costs of entrepreneurs are far from adequate to the possible benefit. EET also has - and all those who are enchanted by the fight of corruption should not be indifferent - it also has relatively high corruption potential. Public contracts will be published for something that is not needed. Moreover, the State has repeatedly demonstrated that it cannot carry out such contracts. In addition to all the negative attributes that electronic sales records have, there is also a need to mention certain hazards in terms of personal data protection. I know somebody's gonna shake it off, but we don't care. There's going to be a huge amount of information, data, and data that's easily exploitable, and that's a thing that's not completely banal and we have to think about. I have brought here some basic political, economic, sociological arguments that clearly show why electronic sales records are not only poorly prepared, but why it is completely useless, why it is not the tool to help us reduce the grey economy, why we do not need such a thing. And I also reminded you that electronic records of sales, and on a number of specific arguments, data, numbers and mainly on the basis of material from the Ministry of Finance, that electronic records of sales are useless, printed, excessively restrictive, discriminatory, expensive, corrupt potential and dangerous in terms of personal data protection. I, of course, will be speaking in the course of the discussion with a number of other arguments that can convince you even more about this, and I believe that some who have listened to me are beginning to understand why electronic sales records are dangerous and why they would in no way The Chamber of Deputies should not have agreed to such an unnecessary law or at all to consider approving such a law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have three more applications with priority rights. Vice-President Gazdík, then President Stanjura and then Minister Babiš, but two factual points before that. The first is Mr Šarapatka's remark and Mr Foldyna will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the two wholly independent Members of this House and, in view of the party principle of this House, I am aware that the weight of my voice is limited to de facto zero, but I would also like to express my independent opinion on this issue. We've heard a lot of arguments and counterarguments, some of them true, some less, but I still think it's normal not to steal them. If everyone pays their taxes, everyone can pay smaller taxes, which will be good for everyone. My previous speaker here spoke, said a lot of arguments about why electronic records are bad and that he has other solutions. But we haven't heard a word about these solutions. So it seems to me that it's more of a defense of the gray economy. It's just not okay for one innkeeper to pay taxes and the other not to pay. If everyone pays for them, they'll pay less. And don't be mad at me, the course of discussion on this issue seems to me more like obstruction of the work of this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u13	Yes, another two minutes for Mr Foldyna and will be prepared with a factual remark by President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u14	Thank you, good morning. I originally didn't want to perform because I thought this wasn't my topic, but I was driven to do it by the President of the Civil Democrats. I was amazed to hear about Switzerland, I was amazed to hear about how unnecessary everything was, and as if I couldn't wake up from a dream that began at a time when the Civil Democratic Party and its exponents ruled here, like Václav Klaus, Kočárník, Dyba, Salzmann, and they had a mascot and it was called Kožený, then there were LTOs and piles of dirty money, gray ones that got out of circulation, and then I hear the need to keep the lights off. Do you remember that statement from the '90s when the chairman and founder of the ODS said there was a need to turn off the lights? That it takes economists to step up from lawyers? And in this land, it turns on slowly, and it bothers somebody again. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, we should be clear. You just need to light up a little bit, you need this law and those fairy tales about Switzerland, I think it's before Christmas, but I prefer Mrazík. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u15	President Stanjura with a point of fact, after whom President Laudát. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u16	In fact, it can respond to previous speakers. So a friend of Rusko likes the Mrazík, I don't like the Mrazík, but that's not why I volunteered. Mr Šarapatka says there is one of two independent Members here. That's not true. An independent Member is the one who runs independently for the Chamber of Deputies. He's an unattached MP, that's completely different. An independent Member runs alone, convinces voters and then acts as independent. I don't know when he applied for a factual reminder, but apparently he didn't listen to President Fiala's speech. We said that a much better recipe, according to many renowned studies, to fight the grey economy is to simplify the tax system, to cut rates. Then look at our House press. The designs are already here, so you're saying we didn't design anything. Well, we designed it. And not just from the microphone, but we wrote it down, unfortunately it hasn't come to the program yet. Whether it is a reduction in VAT, whether it is the abolition of unnecessary taxes such as road tax, or what the Chamber of Deputies has already rejected, the abolition of the tax on the acquisition of real estate. These are concrete steps that simplify the tax system. You did the exact opposite. Ask businessmen how it helped them that there is a third VAT rate. You did the exact opposite. The experts who are writing this study are just saying that the higher the burden of work, and in our country it is extremely high, then I will compare it internationally in my performance, the more complicated the tax system, the higher the tax rates, the more space it creates for the grey economy. And I repeat that it is not the opinion of the opposition, but the opinion of renowned studies that the professional economic community takes seriously. So don't tell me we didn't design anything. Besides saying it verbally, we've written drafts of laws. If you want to go this way with us when we discuss the law, vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u17	Thank you, too. Mr. Laudát, please. Mr. Fiala will be ready. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u18	Thank you. Only two previous speakers with regard to Mr Šarapatka. Since the YES movement tried to get him on the Economic Committee, I think I would be careful of the words of an independent Member. When it comes to turning off the lights after the '90s, many of you feel your conscience and thank Klaus for actually turning off the lights and the lights weren't on. Maybe you wouldn't be sitting here with shame tonight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u19	I ask President Fiala to make a point of fact. If anyone wants to get off, they have a chance to sign up. Please don't discuss outside the microphone. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u20	I would not want to do to Mr Foldyn, through Mr President, what I think he did unfairly to the Civil Democratic Party. I will not recall the names of former Minister of Liberty, Mr. Governor Rath, and others. I will not go into this interpretation of the past, because, by the way, what you're doing, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u21	Through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u22	Through Mr President, I apologise - this does not help the development of parliamentary democracy and the strengthening of the position of traditional political parties, but you are taking on the rhetoric of a number of populist movements that are making their political profit on this very basis. I think it's wrong and dishonest. But I'll tell you another thing. You must have listened poorly to me, through Mr President, because I have brought clear arguments. What I said about Switzerland was one of the support arguments for fighting the grey economy. You can argue all you want here, but I don't consider it fair to back us up that when we have a different opinion on electronic sales records and a different view on combating the grey economy, we don't want to fight the grey economy, that we want to cover some tax evasion. Mr Foldyna and everyone else, through Mr President, I am not interested in the past in this regard. As a historian, I'm able to have a historical debate about her, but I don't care. Me and the Civil Democratic Party, which I lead, are fighting tax evasion, have brought clear proposals in line with international experience on how to combat the grey economy, and that is essential to me. All of you, let's not talk so much about the past, we can interpret here as we want. Here, let us demonstrate what our position is, who protects freedom, who protects business, who fights the grey economy. "Hic Rhodus, hic salta."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u23	One more point in fact, Mr Zlatuška. After him, Mr. Chairman Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u24	Mr President, I am impressed by Mr ODS President's cry that he will not be able to conduct business at the cottage because he has a bad signal there. There you can only recommend that you go from Vodafone to O2 or T-Mobile. They both have robust coverage. Only Vodafone is there on the border, but it was enough not to go to Vodafone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u25	President Kováčik, then President Stanjura and then President Laudát, still factual points. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. By your means, Mr President, to President Fial, who here said that his past did not interest him. Mr President, you should be interested in the past. I think that if you were interested in the time it was taking place, you were more interested in it and more interested in it, the traditional political parties today might not have the problems they have. You wouldn't have to have election problems where you have, say, just a glare of former fame, where you have trouble getting anywhere past that magical 5% limit. Everything has its reasons. And if it wasn't for you, maybe gold, we thought the color was completely different, the ODS era, so it didn't have to be called all the stealing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u27	Chairman Stanjuru, please. After him, President Laudat. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u28	For President Kováčik through the President of the Chamber of Deputies. President Fiala said no such thing that we don't care about the past. Take a look at the log. He says, "Don't pay attention to the past, interpretation can be different, there are other forums for this." We're interested in what's here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u29	Colleagues and colleagues, please remain calm. Let the President argue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u30	Secondly, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, I would strongly ask that the payment or non-payment of sales representatives of various companies in direct online transmission do not make commercial communications. It really is an outrage to say here who has an operator from Members and to promote other competing companies. I think you could've done it alone without me pointing that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u31	Yes. I also had doubts as to whether the performance was consistent, say, with good morale in the Chamber of Deputies, but I had no idea what the colleague wanted to say and I did not guess the product placement. I'm sorry. I ask all Members not to promote specific products and specific services here. President Laudat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u32	Thank you. My colleague Stanjura took the wind off my sails. Indeed, I think that you may be breaking the law, I do not know if it applies to the promotion of specific companies in the House of Deputies. But there are certain laws that prohibit Members from becoming carriers of advertising. I'd ask too much, that's not a good thing. It's extremely inappropriate and unethical. Let's make it neutral next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u33	If anyone wants to discuss, please sign up for the debate. I'll give him a chance to get out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u34	It may sign up with a factual or due debate. Please avoid promoting specific companies in a positive way. The other thing is, if the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have a lot of interests here, that's in context. However, this was pure advertising. And you could say it universally: there's not one operator, there's another, maybe, but don't do specific PR companies here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u35	Thank you. Now Prime Minister Černoch has the floor with a point of fact. He's downloading. Mr Hájek, then. Mr. Chalupa will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u36	Good morning, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister - he's here alone. I would have responded to Mr Laudát's words. I fully agree with you. I call on Members from the right spectrum: Please do not advertise Agroferta here. That Agrofert fell here ten, a hundred, a thousand times. Please don't advertise Agrofert, don't talk about Agrofert. Also, for example, a watery chicken, as I'm told. First of all. Church sausages, Ježíš, there's been a lot here. Two. Mr President of the ODS through Mr President, I have witnessed many times when you accused the communists of their past, that they should change their name. So change your name if you don't want to connect with what tradition the ODS has. And the fact that the traditions may not have been entirely optimal suggests that a colleague of Mr Laudát has left you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u37	I ask Mr Rais, if he insists on his point of fact. Please, you have the floor. After that, the President of Černoch and the President of Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u38	Have a good day. Indeed, just a technical remark towards my colleague, Mr Fiala,'s speech. Because I've been dealing with math in economics for a few years, it was beautiful to see here from inaccurate numbers, because the black economy can be measured, very precise conclusions are being drawn. It has no telling value. Just as a note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will continue to discuss this point and, with a factual remark, Mr Černoch will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u40	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, to Mr Hájek. I think there are other arguments, and something else is encouraging people to move on to another operator. That's where it really smells like the edge of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Stanjura is now making a point of fact, Mr Fichtner will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u42	So when some government MPs constantly want to rub themselves against my political party, I'm its founding member, I'm not ashamed of the brand, I have no reason to run away because it may be more advantageous at the moment. I have no reason to be ashamed of where the Czech Republic has come from in 25 years. And when Foldyna and the others choose such expressive and insulting words as exponents, Václav Klaus was not only Chairman of the ODS but also Minister of Finance of the Czech Republic, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and President of the Czech Republic. You can disagree with some of his opinions, you can argue with him, but there is no exponent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u43	Thank you. So now Mr Fichtner and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, since there's nothing to talk about, I'm not going to forgive that remark either. There's been a lot of talk here that when someone talks about a particular operator, they're breaking the law. I think it was heard from a fellow Černoch man. I would therefore like to know which and whether he could specifically quote the provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u45	Thank you, too. Mr Vondráček will now prepare Mr Bendl with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u46	Thank you for the floor. Everyone's already paid their allowance here, so I figured I'd check in, too. My colleague Fichtner beat me to it in a second. The MP is not allowed to perform in advertising. He's not allowed to do that. This wasn't a commercial performance. Even though we are filmed and we can monitor the transmission, it is certainly not a broadcast of Czech Television to be covered by the rules on broadcasting public television. And then, of course, we have the right of the Member to say anything in this room and to cover it with indemnity and immunity. So in this way it is not possible to restrict Members and no law restricts them. If we're talking about something, it's ethics. I don't think the performance was appropriate, there was another way of saying it, I agree. Thank you for the reminder. I hope you will then appreciate it if I initiate us to talk about the fact that this House still has no ethical code of conduct. We can adopt the Code of Ethics that such acts are beyond the bounds of this code. There's no way there's been a violation of the law. End of my note.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u47	Thank you. Now Mr Bendl, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u48	Thank you for the floor. I confess that I am very surprised that my colleague Zlatuška already knows which operators are available and whom to recommend. Perhaps he already knows, and so I wanted to ask him through the President, which companies will supply electronic cash registers, because we all know that there will be no tender for this because we are under time pressure, so he might as well tell us who will be the supplier of electronic cash registers, who will supply the software, when he already knows what connection and which telephone operator he recommends to individual business operators. Please, if he or the Minister wouldn't tell us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u49	Thank you. And now, therefore, President Stanjura and President Fiala will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u50	According to the Rules of Procedure, I respond to the speech of the previous speaker. I would like to speak with Mr Vondráček through you. I kind of liked your point. Really. It's not a criticism. I just want to remind you that when you yell again, not you, but perhaps your colleagues, no matter what we do not speak, no matter what the point, remember your words from this place - a Member has the right to speak up and say anything. Otherwise, I really liked your show.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u51	Thank you. President Fiala and President Kalousek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u52	Thank you. For one thing, I'm glad my performance brought such attention. I'm not quite sure if you've listened exactly to my arguments. If I was in college, I'd repeat them, I'm not doing it here. Interpret them all you want. Anyway, about the past. I am almost touched by how many Members here care about what percentage the Civil Democratic Party has or will have. I can assure everyone that you'll be surprised how strong we will be after the next election. But that doesn't belong here. I am, of course, completely identified with the history of the Civil Democratic Party, otherwise I would not have entered it at its most difficult moment on November 7, 2013, so I have no problem with that. But this was about something else. This was about the current discussion about whether we're going to talk about things that relate to electronic sales records, data, facts, information that I brought here, or whether we're going to have a low-level response to what the government coalition does very often when they don't know what to do: well, your past, it's just bad, so let's talk about it. No, let's not talk about that! Let's talk about what you're proposing and how bad the law is! This is the subject of today's debate and let us hold this debate! And, of course, I can't mention what my colleague Zlatuška has done here. I understand he's very interested in me, we've known each other for 30 years, we've both been rectors of Masaryk University, so I'm glad. However, I don't consider his performance ethical either. And you're very wrong. He didn't advertise the operators he suggested I go to. He was the operator I was working with, and I was the subject of this ad: Look, Chairman Fiala is using this operator. Well, that's an amazing commercial! But I'm not paid for it, and I don't want it, so next time I ask all my colleagues not to say what kind of car I have and what kind of phone I use, what kind of toothbrush I have, because I don't want to be the subject of this ad! [[President: I am sorry, Mr President, your time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u53	Thank you. Now, President Kalousek and Mr Volný will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u54	Thank you, Mr President. According to the Rules of Procedure, I respond in the disciplined queue of factual remarks to my previous speakers - Mr Foldyna and Mr Stanjura. Mr.Foldyna here spoke of what was terrible caused by Mr. Václav Klaus, and he called him an exponent, Mr. Stanjura turned back that he was not an exponent, but that he was the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and the President of the Czech Republic. But he, my dear Social Democrats, was also chairman of this House. And you voted for him in 1998 as one man. He was voted by your then Prime Minister Zeman, elected by Zemanův's successor Gross and voted by Zemanův's successor Sobotka, your current chairman. If it was such a terrible exponent, why did you all vote for him as one man? I didn't vote for him back then. But you trusted him!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u55	Thank you. Mr Volný now, Mr Zlatuška will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I can't help reacting to my colleague Bendl. By your means, Mr President, I would like to wish him a good morning, because there was a question on the register about who would be the supplier. He probably didn't notice that it wasn't register cash registers, but it was an electronic record of sales, so no supplier of electronic cash registers is going to be there, and it's going to be done on a device of the vast majority that entrepreneurs already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u57	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Zlatuška, Mr Foldyna will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u58	Mr President, the President of the ODS, when he accused me of doing some advertising to a particular operator, I did not do any advertising. The President complained that he could not have a business in his cottage because he did not have the appropriate coverage. When you open the maps available on the ČTÚ, there are three operators in total. You will find that two there have coverage absolutely comfortable, one has problems when -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u59	Ambassador, excuse me for entering into your speech, but given the absence of ministers, it is not possible for the House to continue negotiations. So... here comes the Minister of Agriculture. Please. I'm sorry to interrupt, and I'm putting your two minutes on point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u60	The moment you look at the CTU and LTE coverage maps, you will find that two of the three available operators in the Czech Republic have completely comfortable coverage. This reservation could not have been raised at all. One has coverage such that at the moment the trade is done, say in the garden, so there may be some problem with the coverage in the LTE. That's all there was. It wasn't giving out any more information. It is a matter that the President of the ODS here expressed and appealed to scientific studies at the moment when he expressed his reservation, as he said. Thus, the approach, which is minimally accounting-based, based on factual backgrounds and on actual data, so that everyone has the opportunity to do this. There's nothing mysterious about it. And from there, what I said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u61	Thank you. Now, then, Mr. Foldyna. Mr Kalousek will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u62	Thank you. Of course, I don't want to reminisce about history and the past. However, when Mr Kalousek mentioned it, I'm sure it was unstandard, absolutely. It was totally non-standard. But there was also a completely non-standard economic situation in this country. We were before the disaster. The economy was minus 1.6 GDP in right-wing governments. And Miloš Zeman, the Social Democratic Government, thanks to this non-standard step, and it is non-standard, and I hope that this will never happen again, led this country out of the crisis and GDP was 3.5. Teachers' salaries were added and pensions were audited. So we have a choice. Or we had no choice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u63	Thank you. Now, then, President Kalousek and then President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u64	Thank you, Mr President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am responding in a factual way to Mr Volný's speech. He was right. These are not really register cash registers, and I regret that some speakers, even the Minister, when he says in which countries the EET is introduced, so he appoints countries where register cash registers are introduced. Because this Balkan supernova only works in the Balkans. Those aren't really cash registers. This is an online data transfer to the central repository. Only the building of a central repository estimates the Ministry of Finance's internal study of CZK 6 billion. Just traffic, traffic of this data will cost about half a billion a year. It will simply be a permanent "never ending" money machine that the Minister will hand out to his friends, because we know well that there will be no tender. That's the shameless part! The register would be expensive nonsense, but it wouldn't be as heavy on taxpayers as this Balkan supernova whose contracts will be awarded without a tender.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u65	Thank you. Now, Chairman Stanjura. [[Member Jandak is going to the pitch.]] No, no, Mr Jandák, you can't make a point of fact... [[I can't?]] At this moment. I have you written in order, properly. Now, Chairman Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u66	Mr Vice-President, under the Rules of Procedure, I respond in a factual reminder to Mr Volný's speech, who wanted to educate a member of my club Petr Bendl about what EET is, what register cash registers are. I would recommend to him by your means, unfortunately, he is no longer here to focus his educational efforts on the Minister of Finance. I'm not a fan of carrying all kinds of models and all kinds of artwork behind the pitch. And what did he have here last time? Last Friday, Minister of Finance? A model box. He recommended it to all the children under the tree. Then try explaining to him, Mr Freeman through the Vice-President, as you explain to my colleague Petr Bendl, that it is not about cashiers, but about something completely different. That the model he brought just doesn't fit the law under discussion. Try explaining it to him. When you understand, focus your efforts on explaining to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u67	Thank you. Mr Bendl now, Mr Laudát will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u68	Thank you for the floor. I will add one more subject to Mr Freeman through Mr President. If he couldn't tell us about it yet, because he said businessmen already have it. That can be found in the log. So I ask who. What is it, then? If he wouldn't be willing to tell us if some people already have it, because some already know which operator they're going to have to take, some already know which software it's going to be. I guess some of them already know which cashiers they're gonna be. If that's what Mr. Volný said, if he could say which ones they are. Because that's what he said on the microphone. Please, if he can't finish this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u69	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Last Friday behind my back, the cash register rang. Because the wire didn't lead to it, so I'm assuming it wasn't an EET. It wasn't ET either. As for my colleague, Foldyna, when he didn't personally vote maybe Klaus, or wasn't wasted. I don't know, I wasn't here at the time, so I'm sure they were supporting Rath. You had him in the lead, you held him. You knew how he behaved in the Central Bohemia Region. Of course, you couldn't assume he'd be wearing rusty wine in boxes. However, I would be very careful about this unilaterally. And when I put on a bowl of scales what values Václav Klaus brought in the 1990s, what he did for this country, what Rath did for this country, I think you'd better keep quiet with your pseudo opinions or opinions. As far as this is concerned, it would be quite interesting, because I saw the other day that apparently Christmas toys were interpreted in front of the Treasury Department, if they were to distribute it to the Treasury employees. They will be concerned as civil servants of the government with the activities of imposing on young children some of our plastic products, or not ours, but Mr Babiš simply, and fooling them with politics in the early years. I think it would be better to raise them to different values than to grind money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u71	Thank you. Now, Mr. Mr. Zlatuška. Mr Jandák will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u72	Mr President, I would like to express a slight indignation over the way in which Mr Kalousek uses the Balkan adjective. I think that this is a way of using, which is obviously pejorative, and in this way, it is not a very dignified civilised part of the world and of this House to look at part of Europe on an ethnic or geographical basis by pushing some inferior attributes in this part of Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u73	Thank you. Now, Mr Jandák, with a point of fact. I don't see him anywhere. Then we'll keep going. Mr Pilný, a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also respond with a factual remark to Mr Kalousek's speech, which I do not see here. I just want to say that I don't know where the $6 billion figure came from. the central repository of data to which EET data should be stored. From what I know and what I can guess, it's total nonsense. Maybe it'll cost six billion. a data repository which should fit all Mr Kalousek's speeches, but certainly not the EET.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u75	Thank you. No other factual comment is reported. In that case, with priority rights, the Minister. [[Vice-President Gazdík approaches the microphone.]] I'm sorry, in that case, I wasn't given the order. I'm sorry. So, my colleague Gazdík with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u76	I'm sorry, I didn't mean to overtake the Minister, but I really was duly registered, after me, President Stanjura, then the Minister. You'll find it in the stenogram, Mr. Chairman Hamáček's steering meeting repeated it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by disagreeing with my honourable colleague, Mr Zbyněk Fiala, President of the ODS. He said he didn't want to repeat the things that he said here were more suitable for college, but the previous debate, the previous factual remarks convinced me quite clearly that it was necessary to repeat the facts, that it was necessary to discuss it here, and I think that this is where the Chamber of Deputies could come to its end, because the Chamber of Deputies and Parliament are supposed to be discussing, it is supposed to be about arguments and persuasion. Why not put in place an electronic record of sales? Many of you here say that electronic sales records will mean equalizing the business environment, that we will finally end up with tax evasion. I think that's a basic mistake. On how much this whole thing is going to cost, and we can argue here, together with the President of the Economic Committee, through Mr President, whether the cost of introducing a data centre is really going to be 6 billion, less or more, how much annual traffic will cost, how much the costs will be for individual entrepreneurs, but we will all agree that this will not be a very small amount. In any event, the planned introduction of electronic sales records will make life very difficult for entrepreneurs. They will have new responsibilities, and we want to go another way. And I think there has to be a clear line of arguments about how we can do this differently. It's not true there's an evil right that doesn't want to fight tax evasion. I think that previous governments, whatever successes or failures they had, can be expressed numerically and prove that they were very successful in fighting tax evasion. Only in arbitrations managed to stop past governments from losing arbitrations and the Czech Republic lost many billions of crowns. Tax collection has also been significantly improved. We're proposing to reinstate one collection point. This is something we should discuss in the House. The new single collection point was a project that significantly reduced administrative entrepreneurs. This government has decided to abolish it for incomprehensible reasons, and we would therefore very much like to discuss with you why not to introduce a new single control point and a single recovery point. There is no study to confirm that accounting for receipts has a better effect on value added tax. We were talking here this week about the budgetary determination of taxes. In his opening speech, the Minister made it quite clear that we should support the introduction of electronic records of sales and control reports, and then the municipalities will benefit from this. I confess that I do not believe that, of course, the budget of municipalities and the budget of the state is to be linked to each other, to breathe together, and I firmly believe that we will adjust this, as promised by the Minister, as well as the law on the budgetary determination of taxes, because by voting in the past days, you have at least caused the tax on the income of individuals with the municipalities and with the state not to breathe together. There is no study to confirm that accounting for receipts has a better effect on the collection of value added tax. From the former European 15 countries, only Belgium, Sweden, Italy, which is famous for a huge amount of tax evasion and which did not do anything because the tax evasion is still there and the Italian Government itself admits it. For example, Austria has fundamentally rejected it, although the Minister said that Austria is considering some form of its introduction. We'll see about that in the coming months and years. It is often referred to as an example of Croatia, which allegedly improved its VAT collection by introducing an electronic record of sales. That's not true at all. The data of the Croatian Ministry of Finance confirm that the collection of value added tax has not changed practically after the introduction of electronic sales records. Surely what is true is that for entrepreneurs, registration will be a financial burden. The total financial burden for the business sector can rise to about 20 billion. Crowns. In addition to the one-off cost of purchasing cash registers and printers, it is necessary to add to the number of discussed internet connections that we have dealt with here in factual notes. In the case of registers, all obligations and costs associated with the fulfilment of the obligation under the law shall be transferred to entrepreneurs. Specifically, an entrepreneur would be obliged to purchase electronic equipment, also software capable of communicating with the Financial Administration server, to establish a data connection. I'd like to drop by here a little bit, because next week at an emergency meeting, we're going to be discussing the inspection report. And I was very interested, and many entrepreneurs turned to me because at the end of November The Ministry of Finance has published what fines and penalties will look like in the event of failure to comply with the obligations under the Control Reporting Act. On its own pages, the tax administration stated that it would publish a functional interface for entrepreneurs on 30 November. And, uh, on December 4th, there was no such interface. Entrepreneurs complained because it will be Christmas and they know that unfortunately from January, if next week fails, and if you don't, and even to that, my performance should be directed, if you introduce control reports actually as the law is ready to put into effect, we may have the same problem with electronic sales records. And here I would very much ask the Ministry of Finance and the Minister personally, if it does not actually happen that this House will approve the electronic record of sales, to consider at least the comfort of the business start and first try to publish the interface and then threaten sanctions. It's very inconsiderate of the taxpayers. I'll be back. At its cost, an entrepreneur will have to operate such equipment, perform its servicing, maintenance, upgrade and continue to pay regular fees to data-connected providers. It is intended to do all this so that it can communicate the required information to the State in the prescribed manner. The financial burden also falls on the state, which will have to pay more officials in the hundreds of people who will administer this register. We have seen this in the state budget, which unfortunately only counts on the electronic record of sales with about 700 officials and other thousands for other activities. I think, fellow Members, that few of you, when running for the House, promised citizens, voters and taxpayers that they would significantly increase the number of officials in this country. [[11.00 hours]] Technical implementation of the registration will be extremely demanding. I think the Ministry is aware of this, and the technical side of the matter is an important issue. The draft law envisages the introduction of electronic accounting in 2016 to 2017, which according to IT experts is not very real. First of all, because the system for accounting receipts cannot be programmed, tested and run in such a short period of time. The Ministry of Finance refers to the supposedly functioning system in Croatia, but ignores that Croatia has only four million inhabitants, which makes a much smaller burden on the day-to-day operation of the system, and in the case of the ten million Czech Republic it will certainly be different. The Ministry of Finance will also have to deal with the storage, analysis and control of much more data than in the Croatian case. Therefore, it will be necessary to modify the system or create a completely new system. Entrepreneurs themselves will have to deal with technical obstacles to the functionality of the system, there will be a need to connect to the Internet, which, as was said in the debate, is not yet reliable in some places in the Czech Republic, and it is also another investment for entrepreneurs. I cannot agree with my colleague Zlatuška here through the President. I am a fan of freedom, and if any colleague does not want me to advertise to him, as the President of the Civil Democratic Party has asked, I will not name his name, then he does not need to change his operator just because the state has invented that he wants a new system for electronic sales records, if, for example, his existing operator has much more favourable conditions. According to IT experts, it will be very technologically difficult to start the system so that the link between the trader and the Ministry of Finance works. The idea that entrepreneurs will only use tablets or mobile phones is currently not entirely real. The state should effectively collect taxes, but at the same time burden entrepreneurs as little as possible. In the long run, we are promoting simplification for both the state and entrepreneurs, as I have already talked about a single collection point, which reduces the costs of taxpayers and the state brings a clear, uniform, stable tax system. I would sum up my arguments in a few points why not introduce an electronic record of sales, so that you also have an overview of this in the global. One. There is no serious comparative study to confirm an increase in VAT collection after registration. Two. From the former European 15 countries, only three countries have receipts, Belgium, Sweden and Italy. I've already talked about Italy here. There is still a relatively high amount of tax evasion. The Italian government itself admits that, even though the new Prime Minister is working very hard to combat this. Three. Registration in the Czech Republic will impose a burden on the business sector of CZK 20 billion. I'm sure my colleague Pilný here will look at me badly because he has different numbers. We can really argue about these numbers, and I would very much like his numbers to be confirmed, and the burden, if such a thing is implemented, would be much lower. Entrepreneurs must have a cash register connected to the printer and software and internet connection. Traders without an establishment will have a problem with connection. For the State, the introduction of registration means an increase in the number of officials. I personally consider this to be one of the most fundamental arguments. After all, we should be able to reduce the state rather than try to increase it and introduce new and new responsibilities. Six. It is not technically a real system to start between 2016 and 2017. I'd like to drop by a little bit, because we've had different electronic systems here, and I really don't remember when any electronic system, whatever it was, was driver's licenses, traffic records, so-called. With Cards, whatever social systems they were under any government, none of them were fully operational immediately. This has caused citizens too much trouble. I would personally advocate that, and thanks to some of your colleagues, and thanks to the Minister of the Interior, we succeed in working on this in order to address the system the other way around. By the method of Estonia, by introducing eGovernment and rather setting up the system, they then resorted to these individualities, such as electronic records of sales. When the electronic records of these particular individuals are functional, we should work together on this. It needs a banking association. The Ministry of Finance - this is the seventh point - will have to deal with the administration of a huge amount of data. That's kind of a thing that's very easy to take advantage of. There is talk of it being an electronic record of sales, and the Minister says it is a crucial anti-corruption point and it will reduce corruption. I don't think so. Very badly, unfortunately, paying tax officials will have the incentive to use, sell, destroy, sell any businessman in any way. I think we should make laws that don't impose such corrupt possibilities. Eight point. All entrepreneurs will have to have internet access. For some businesses, I can't imagine it very much, or it's a unnecessary burden again for someone who doesn't need it very much. A bricklayer working on a business, I don't know why we should order him to have his Internet connection. The system's response and waiting for him will slow down in stores and restaurants. I'd be happy to have a beer with the Minister, if ever electronic sales records are introduced. I think it's gonna be a lot harder on that waitress, and I think we're gonna have to walk for a beer, if we're gonna follow the law 100%. I'm wondering how it's gonna work. Now I come up with an example of countries with electronic sales records. First, let's look at Slovakia. Slovakia introduced the obligation to operate register cash registers with fiscal memory in 2008 and a discussion took place here again. Registration cash registers are not the same as electronic sales records. In 2013, Slovakia supplemented the system with a receipt lottery, which is also the aim of the bill on electronic records of sales. New data from the Slovak Ministry of Finance show that the lottery helps increase the state's revenue only slightly and helped increase the VAT collected for 2013 by only 0.17 percent. Overall, EUR 4.74 billion has been collected for VAT for 2013, and the lottery has thus contributed between seven and eight million euros. Indeed, this is not a fatal amount in view of the costs. Moreover, interest in the receipt lottery decreased in January. Slovakia had a VAT choice of seven years four times worse and three times better, and better in 2010 compared to 2013, when the receipt lottery was introduced and relatively more than annual GDP growth was collected. In 2007 and 2008, less was chosen than would correspond to growth or decline in gross domestic product. We're getting to a state that's very tilting here, and that's Croatia. Before 2013 VAT was collected in Croatia by the State only for certain products, no electronic records were introduced and VAT collection was necessary due to harmonisation with European Union law. Therefore, Croatia introduced the registers at the same time as joining the European Union in July 2013. I have a graph of what it looks like. It is quite clear that the selection is lower. The data is from the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia. Mr President, if you have a hard time seeing this, I am very happy to lend it to you after my brief speech. It's my goal to educate you and I'd be very happy if you'd take a look at that graph. That doesn't work in Croatia. [[11.10 hours]] There's been an increase in administration on the business side. That's the first crucial point. In Croatia there were 35 thousand inspections of entrepreneurs for one year to eight years lasting one and a half days in one company. A clerk is a clerk, employees are dedicated to him instead of customers and companies are losing orders. It means more administration for the state as well. The Ministry of Finance is counting on an increase of 900 people in the Czech Republic, unfortunately no one is counting on the increase of administration on the part of controlled entrepreneurs, it is not in these materials. The registers are paid by businessmen. In Croatia, the checkout costs an average of EUR 1000. For many entrepreneurs, it meant financing the company from two months' income. Cashiers will not have to exchange, says the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, but in 90 percent of cases this may not be true at all. Moreover, the participation of the state, European funds and CzechInvest, this was a quote for the Ministry of Finance material, when switching to the treasury will only be for large companies, with an explanation, for small applicants it would be inefficient to fill out applications, so we are only considering supporting companies that will show hundreds of thousands of costs. Unfortunately, no one will help small businessmen again, only by introducing electronic records of sales will make them worse. And again, if we're talking about a level playing field, obviously there's no equal access to big companies and small businesses. Even a banal error ends in a liquidation penalty. If the controller finds an irregularity in Croatia, even if it takes just six euros, with an electronic exit, closes the establishment immediately or a liquidation penalty will come. That's the second very corrupt moment when, for the sake of officials, it's gonna be whether or not they're gonna shut down an establishment. And even here, this can significantly reduce the business environment in the Czech Republic. In Croatia, 17 percent of the checks end with a fine or a ban on activity, which is a thousand cases out of 35,000 checks. Fines are awarded as a non-compliant checkout status, but also for incorrect VAT, not issuing receipts, but also for incorrect issue time. The error is the amount of zero kun or the bad name of the goods. Payment data can't be sent. Since the introduction of registers, a mobile 3G network has been overloaded in Croatia, which is used to transfer cash registers data. Here I would like to say that this grid overload here in our fourth generation in most territories can affect not only the entrepreneurs themselves and their sending of data from electronic sales records, but it can affect everyone else, because those who use mobile networks for any other purpose can simply have problems, it can be very slower, more difficult to make life for all people in the Czech Republic. If the network does not work, the entrepreneur shall be responsible for the supply of data. And even if he couldn't control it, he's responsible. The proposed solution model - when the network is down to 200 kun we deliver data with 48 hours apart - proposed by the Ministry of Finance is just another complication. The recent collapse of the driver registry is a clear proof that even the Czech Republic is not ready to operate such a complex system. Croatia's Chamber of Commerce itself admits that it does not have a satisfactory solution to this issue. Since the introduction of the system in 2013, it has still invented solutions. What is the reality in Croatia? In some companies in Croatia, sales increased by up to 900 percent, claims the situation in Croatia by our Ministry of Finance and the Minister himself. However, according to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, this was 50 per cent in restaurants, 24 per cent in traders and 10 per cent in small services. I'll do it again just in case. It is not 900 %, but 50 per cent in restaurants, 24 per cent in traders and 10 per cent in small services. This is the beginning of a argumentary that I could talk about further and further, but as Vice-President of the House, I will not even submit comments from the association of entrepreneurs and other organisations yet, but I will look at the meeting of the Legislative Council of the Government. I don't think there are many of us who have studied the minutes of the Government Legislative Council in detail, which dealt with the electronic record in May of this year. In particular, two opinions, these two opinions of 7 May and 28 May, I think it should definitely be heard here. I will first read the report on the draft e-booking of sales for the meeting of the Legislative Council of the Government, which took place this year on 7 May 2015. A. Necessity of proposed legislation. The proposed legislation is justified by an effort to increase the transparency of payments and the flow of information, with the ultimate objective being to increase tax and, by extension, fiscal efficiency. The justification in the explanatory memorandum is political, it is always built on hypotheses that are difficult to believe, including knowdige transfer from Croatia. The risks of legal transplants are widely known. So far, the news report on the bill on the record of sales for the meeting of the Legislative Council of the Government of 7 May says. Similarly, it is not justified why accelerated efficiency with minimum legisvacation is proposed, with costs initially borne by SMEs, among other things. After all, this is one of the most controversial points of the whole text, namely the transfer of costs to SME. The analysis shows that, although the RIA report and some comment points point out, it is not sufficient that the burden will be in tens of thousands of crowns. And here again, Mr. Pilný, who will certainly have different numbers, looks bad on me. However, here you can see the relevant fact that the Government's Legislative Council report also talks about costs moving in tens of thousands of crowns, and nowhere is it described how these costs will be internalised by the state. It is clear that the aim of the whole process is the primary strengthening of the control role of the state, largely at the expense of private individuals, which is contrary to the principles and European law, as the OCOM points out. Moreover, we must not neglect the consumer to whom this law touches at the shops themselves. At the same time, I share another comment on the requirements for the development of a substantive intention, as required by the Government's legislative rules. The legality of the legislative process is one of the fundamental manifestations of the rule of law and the exception that the rules allow has not been justified in any way. Part B of this intelligence report. Compliance with constitutional order and European law. It cannot be said prima facie that the bill is contrary to constitutional order. In addition to the complaint in the legislative process, see above, however, in the absence of a real analysis of the impact on taxpayers and in ensuring that the costs of the process are borne either by a taxpayer or by SME, it is reasonable to ask whether this is an appropriate intervention in private law. This is not about the expanse of possible public intervention. It is not the rapporteur's job to carry out such an analysis. However, I believe that on the edge of constitutionality there is an almost unlimited possibility of applying the equivalent of an agent provocateur in accordance with Section 25 and in his free consideration of subsequent withdrawal from the contract. Even if the taxpayer does not violate any obligation. [[11.20 hours]] If public power is to do what is defined in the law, it must also bear the consequences and protect the good faith of private individuals. As regards the conclusions on compliance with European law, the rapporteur notes that he relies on the conclusions of OCOM, with the fact that due to the diversity of expertise, the rapporteur is unable to undergo the notification obligation, leaving the rapporteur to this debate more called for during the Government Legislative Council. The clarity of the legislation. The legislation does not comply with the requirements of clarity. This is a big argument that we should consider, because none of us, as elected representatives of the people, wants us to adopt legislation that does not meet the requirements of clarity. It is the result of a number of serious shortcomings, the rapporteur writes. In particular, it must be said that while the text of the bill has 12 pages, the draft opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government already has 15 pages and the proposed changes are not merely changes of cosmetic or legislative nature. I can thus certainly say that we are discussing a number of different laws than those put forward in the commentary procedure. I believe that this is, among other things, one of the consequences of the absence of a substantive intention, see in detail below. We are getting to the part D - Uniqueness of concepts and fundamental institutes. The law is simple and short, but almost every paragraph of it raises interpretational questions. This is indeed a major failure, if the rapporteur of the Legislative Council of the Government says so. These are questions that are not entirely trivial, which is very desirable in the existence of future costs. No matter how much we argue about the cost, it is not trivial that the law raises interpretational questions. Randomly in detail to point E - Definition of the subject of sales records. The record of sales is also tautology. Payment in cash is not made through cash, perception of means of payment is arbitrary and so on. Although the reason report is extensive, it is not part of the legislation and is unfortunately non-binding. I mean, it's actually uninteresting for interpretation. Moreover, the practice shows that interpretations always vary according to the kind of tax administrator that is responsible, so the legal standard has to be clearer. We are getting to the E part of the rapporteur's report for the Government Legislative Council, and that is the clarity of the proposed provisions. I am glad that my speech has also prompted the President of the Legislative Council of the Government to discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u77	I'll ask you, colleagues on the left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u78	The Prime Minister, too, is discussing my speech. Thank you, Mr President, very kind of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u79	Please continue, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u80	Yes, we are in the clarity of the proposed provisions. The problem is not only the clarity of individual provisions, the problem is the clarity of the entire law, especially when realizing who will be the subject. I'll skip the individual paragraphs here briefly and go to point F and that's the language level of the proposal. The language used is standard and the rapporteur does not see the problems in the language itself. We're getting to point G, which is the level of the reason message. The shortcomings of the draft law itself cannot replace the explanatory memorandum. The reason message is long, including the RIA part, but unfortunately does not give key answers. Here you can see that the reason message isn't worth reading, because it won't give you the key answers. See the essential comments and opinions of the RIA Commission. And now for the conclusion. The rapporteur, Dr. Bohumil Havel, PHD, says in Prague on 6 May: "In view of the above, I recommend that the Government's Legislative Council reject the proposal and invite the petitioners to present a substantive intention, as required by the Government's legislative rules § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and (b) justify, where appropriate, an exemption from that obligation. If the proposal should nevertheless be discussed, I recommend interruption and submission of the proposed text.' So much intelligence on the bill on electronic records of sales. This is a fluent approach to the position of the Government's Legislative Council itself. On 28 May 2015, the Government Legislative Council issued an opinion on the draft law on electronic records of sales. Firstly, the overall intention of the proposal. First, the objective of the draft law is to establish a continuous flow of information between tax entities and the tax administrator, the purpose of which is to reduce the level of such behaviour of tax entities, which seeks to conceal the facts relevant to the administration and collection of taxes and to distort the real picture of the overall tax obligations. For the above purpose, establish an integrated system for recording sales eligible for mediation on-line transmission of prescribed information on registered sales. The delegation of the administration of sales records to the tax administrator of income tax, with the authorisation to check the performance of obligations imposed by the Financial Administration bodies of the Czech Republic being granted also to the customs authorities of the Czech Republic. To establish the customer's ability to verify whether his transaction has been properly registered in the tax administrator's system. II. Relationship with European Union law. The draft law does not implement the law of the Czech Republic and the proposal is not contrary to EU law - which is good news. Although the area of income taxes covered by the draft law is currently not harmonised with EU law, this issue can be raised in general requirements arising from primary EU law. In particular, Articles 19, 45, 49, 56, 63 and 115 TFEU. In particular, the following EU legal acts may be mentioned in the context of support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Communication from the Commission of 25 June 2008 to the Green Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. In addition, the Commission Communication of 23 February 2011 entitled Review of the Initiative. Last but not least, the Commission report to the Council and the European Parliament reducing the regulatory burden on small and medium-sized enterprises to a minimum. Adaptation of EU legislation to the needs of micro-enterprises. III. The way in which the motion is dealt with. The draft law was discussed in the commentary procedure, the results of which are presented in the presentation report in Part 6 of the submitted material. On 7 May, the petitioner subsequently updated the material via eKLEP in the part of the settlement table of the explanatory memorandum and the presentation report on the basis of the results of the settlement of the comments in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. On the basis of the above update according to the petitioner, the bill is presented with these contradictions. - Please let us focus on the contradictions that individual ministries apply to this bill. We'll start with the Department of Agriculture. This had a total of six contradictions, the Minister certainly still remembers it, which he does not consider sufficient to divorce the final report of the regulatory impact assessment, does not consider information on the form of the system, on tactical requirements for mandatory entities, on the way in which checks are carried out in the system and on the involvement of specific groups of taxpayers using cash... [[unintelligible]] And now I'm lost in it. Sorry, using cash and how the introduction of the tax collection record in the countries where the sales registration system was introduced had a sufficiently detailed effect. The Ministry of Agriculture also disagrees with leaving space to supplement sales permanently exempt from sales records by decree, even if the issue of the decree is bound by legal restrictions. It does not consider the definition of the data to be provided by the taxpayer to be sufficiently specific to the tax administrator. It requires that, from the date of entry into force of this Act, sales are temporarily excluded for a period of three years from agricultural, fishing and forest activities. A requires the determination of the date of entry into force to be fixed on 1 January 2017. Those were the comments, the contradictions of the Ministry of Agriculture. [[11.30 hours]] With one contradiction came the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, the Cabinet of the Head of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, which demands that the law explicitly state that the lottery will be held at regular intervals. That's not in the law. With four contradictions with the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic came the Council for Development, Research and Innovation. The Council for Development, Research and Innovation with the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic does not consider the final report of the assessment of the effects of regulation in parts and impacts on the business sphere, any number of taxpayers who leave economic activities, the costs of introducing a system of sales records and the costs of operating sales records to be sufficient. It does not consider information on the form of an established system on technical requirements for obliged entities, the way in which the system is controlled, as well as the involvement of specific groups of payers using cash, and the effect that the introduction of a record of sales on tax collection in the countries in which the sales record system was introduced has had on a sufficiently detailed basis. It does not consider the tax advantage of taxpayers who will record sales to be sufficient and demands that the exclusion of sales from fraud - pardon, not fraud, is regulated only by law because of the gradual start-up of the sales record. With nine contradictions with the Office for Personal Data Protection this bill is. The Office for Personal Data Protection requires that the proposal be returned to the stage of the substantive intention. It does not consider it sufficient to provide a detailed summary of the effects of the modification on the privacy and personal data protection standard. It considers the final report of the assessment of the effects of regulation to be overloaded details and requires its recasting, requires the revision of § 1 and § 3 of the draft law due to their non-normality. It requires automatic allocation of authentication data to all taxpayers, not only those who will actively request it. It does not consider an clarified relationship of the taxpayer's tax identification number. It does not consider the existence of two receipt identifiers necessary, namely the payer's security code and the fiscal identification code. It considers the regulatoryly insufficient specification of the customer's receipt verification procedure. It requires more detailed legislative regulation and does not agree with the chosen legal concept of the receipt lottery, in particular it does not agree that the receipt lottery will not be subject to legislation regulating the lottery and other similar games. The bill was discussed by an extraordinary working group, an ad hoc committee of the Legislative Council of the Government, as well as a committee on European law. The draft law was also discussed by the Working Committee of the Government Legislative Council for the evaluation of the effects of RIA regulation and its opinion is set out in the Annex to this opinion of the Government Legislative Council. The Government Legislative Council discussed the draft law at its meeting on 7 May 2015, as I said, and recommended the petitioner to prepare the comments of the members of the Legislative Council of the Government and the comments in the draft opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government on the bill submitted, to submit a modified draft law to the Legislative Council of the Government for renegotiation. This amended version of the bill was discussed by the Legislative Council of the Government on 28 May 2015. And this opinion of the Legislative Council is already drawn up on this amended version of the bill. I therefore note that the Government's Legislative Council has asked for the inclusion of these comments and has issued the following opinion, which will certainly interest you. First of all, in general. On the one hand, the draft law seeks to minimise negative phenomena such as the illegal circumvention of tax obligations, which are subsequently reflected in the final amount of tax collection, in particular for income taxes and value added tax. This situation results in a reduction in the amount of State budget revenue. This situation also creates an undesirable inequality between different groups of tax entities, where in the market environment it puts those who have a greater will to pay taxes in a proper manner. Here, the Legislative Council of the Government seems to be in full agreement with the coalition. On the other hand, the draft law introduced by the obligation to record sales affects, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, which burden other administrative requirements. See, that's what the Legislative Council of your government says. It's not a figment of the sick mind of the opposition that just wants to stall. Even the Legislative Council of the Government - and the Minister nods and smiles in agreement, does not nod, but smiles - says that the bill introduced by the obligation to record sales affects, in particular, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are burdened with other administrative requirements. [[Dienstbier]] [[with emphasis]] [[with emphasis]] That's a condition that I'm sure no one wants. In this context, it should be mentioned when I continue to say that the European Commission has expressed itself in the sense that small and medium-sized enterprises are a key player in the European economy, and in 2008 it presented a comprehensive framework for their support for the Small Business Act, which is intended and intended to enable the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. In 2011, the Commission then issued a report to reduce the regulatory burden for small and medium-sized enterprises in all areas where this is only possible for futuro. It also follows from the case-law of the European Court of Justice that national measures which render the exercise of fundamental freedom of establishment less attractive must be necessary and proportionate. Support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is also one of the reasons for the Government's programming declaration, one of the points of the Government's programming declaration, which should take action in this context to minimise the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. In this respect, at least the petitioner's efforts to minimise the burden on entrepreneurs and consumers associated with the introduction and subsequent operation of the sales registration system can be considered as correct, for example, in the measure under consideration, in which the costs of electronic records of sales can be applied in the form of income tax discounts. In the light of the above and following discussion of the bill, the Government Legislative Council continues to have significant doubts as to whether the introduction of the obligation to register sales and related obligations is in line with the principles enshrined in the European Union's legal acts mentioned above in Part Two of this Opinion, namely the policy of supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and whether the measures accompanying its introduction, which should minimise the associated administrative burden on entrepreneurs, are sufficient. These are quite very serious facts. Part two. According to the Government's Legislative Council, the main purpose of the bill should be to record sales in order to increase the amounts collected in the collection of taxes and not data on retail sales, which should also correspond to, inter alia, the wording of Section 5 letter. (b) a draft law. At the same time, according to the petitioner, the aim is to exclude from the obligation to register the sales of cashless payments via a payment order based on an invoice - a type between entrepreneurs. The record of sales should therefore be subject to all sales resulting from the sale of goods and services in stone stores and corresponding sales from the sale of goods and services via the Internet. In this respect, the wording of Section 5 (a) should therefore be amended. (b) as, according to the current wording of this provision, the obligation to register sales falls out of the obligation for the taxpayer to make sales on the basis of payments made through online terminals, online payment services such as Service 24, PayPal and so on. [[11.40 hours]] In the opinion of the Government's Legislative Council, such exclusion of certain forms of payments is contrary to the purpose of the proposed regulation. At the same time, this provision needs to be clarified as regards the concept of the beneficiary, since this must always be the taxpayer, but also another person different from the taxpayer, given that according to the provisions of Section 5 letter. (b) the bill will be subject to all card transactions in trade. In this context, the Government's Legislative Council considers it important that the scope and scope of the information to be collected in connection with the introduction of sales records be proportionate to the purpose of the law, with regard to the protection of personal data. We're getting to point 3. The preferential treatment of certain types of sales only on the basis of the definition of the entity to which these sales are due is regarded by the Government's Legislative Council as discriminatory and, as a result, adversely affecting competition. In this context, in certain circumstances, certain exceptions may be considered to be State aid for the abuse of dominant position on the market, in the case of so-called public undertakings and service providers of general economic interest. The possible solution to avoid risk is that the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union consider exemption from the registration of sales as an activity resulting in abuse of market dominance, it would be strictly to apply exemptions from the obligation to register sales only for certain sectors as a whole, not to exempt only certain entities, such as the holder of a postal licence. Here you can see that the Government's Legislative Council itself points out that electronic sales records can only be made before the European Commission or the Court of Justice of the European Union. Entities operating in the relevant sector market should therefore not be selective except in the case of an obligation under Section 12. In the light of the above and of the discussion on this subject, the Legislative Council of the Government considers that the proposed legislation should contain as few exceptions as possible to fully exclude the obligation to register sales. And that's in really well-founded, really well-founded cases. To this end, therefore, we consider it necessary to significantly narrow down their list referred to in §12. Watch out for Section 12! Then the Government Legislative Council considers adding § 46 Closer rules for lottery receipts, I will not burden you with that, because I think the government has actually dealt with it and corrected that paragraph. In the event that it would be decided to leave § 10 para. 2, it is necessary to make changes in his text, here the Legislative Council of the Government points out. And so it's in many other paragraphs that I'm not going to burden you with right now. But there are two important things. First of all, to the present section 39, the number 36 is to be replaced by the number 32, which probably happened. But to the explanatory note. The explanatory memorandum is to be adapted by the appellant within the meaning of the comments given in the opinion of the extraordinary working committee of 24 April. And it also has to adjust the explanatory memorandum to correspond to a bill approved by the government. Conclusion. We're coming to a conclusion. The Government's Legislative Council recommends the Government to approve the bill on the record of sales and on it... to determine. The Government approves the draft law on the registration of sales with adjustments in accordance with the comments contained in the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, instructs the First Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance to draw up the wording of the Government proposal referred to in point 1 of the resolution, notify the Government Bill in accordance with points 1 and 2 of this resolution to the European Commission through the Office for Technical Standardisation. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here, but I'd like to ask him if it has been done. Point 1 and 2 of this Resolution have been notified to the European Commission through the Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing Office under the technical specification regime with other requirements in accordance with Article 1 (1). Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Is it necessary to provide information on technical standards and regulations for information society services in accordance with Directive 9834/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 1998 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations and of rules on information society services? The Minister, and this is my second question, is also intended to ensure the technical solution of the sales record project on 1 January 2016. We are approaching this deadline on 1 January 2016 and it is not yet known to me that it would be quite clear what technical provision of the Electronic Records of Sales project looks like. Here I think the Minister should give us all relevant information in this regard. Furthermore, the Prime Minister's Legislative Council instructs the Prime Minister to submit a bill in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 to the Chamber of Deputies and the Deputy Prime Minister to justify the proposal, which the Minister certainly did. Signed by Mgr Jiří Dienstbier, Minister of Human Rights, Equal Opportunities, Legislation and Chairman of the Government Legislative Council. Those are the basic comments so far. I think we will certainly get to the next one during the debate. The minister here at the beginning introduced today in his speech, and I would very much like to continue it, such a "Over the letters of citizens" window. So I would also contribute my little bit to the mill and tell you some of the letters that come from my citizens or our MP's club. So I'll start first in this window. The writer writes, "Tell Babiš." I can't imagine how this is gonna work. At the Christmas market stand - this is a very current topic - where you sometimes stand in line for a good 10 to 15 minutes, where the lady, who has her hands from the dough and takes money very carefully from you, fill out the data relating to one of the dwarfs on some quite expensive touch apparatus. It's to hire a temp who's gonna control it, and he's gonna raise her traffic costs, of course. Something else is a restaurant where they charge you for your whole lunch. However, I met this once, writes the writer, that you will arrive on your bike and want to have two beers in the garden, pay straight and go on. Before such a lady taps into their miraculous electronic order log, you drop your foam and lose your appetite, writes Mrs. Nikola Voňková. I have another letter. Hugo Holý: Electronic sales record is a logical electoral move for our socialist society. Success is not forgiven for us and envy bows to every corner in every fall. We all know that. People don't want to try to have something, but they want others to have nothing. Twist your eight hours, drop on the couch at home... Put yourself on the couch at home. I think I'll take it again. It is easier to put yourself on the couch at home and argue about how every businessman is a thief. Sometimes I get up at 4:00 in the morning and get home for work late at night, no one can see. The main thing is to persect everyone who has something. Any action against the people who are trying will be taken as the right thing to do. AND ANO, HE'S GONNA WIN WITH IT ON THE END. Although it's low, it's in short what Master Okamura is doing to us. They're targeting their campaign and their interests at morons who can never do anything and who can only bitch about how they all stand... sucks - so I don't get called down here. I don't even have to comment on what all the negative things will bring, because I believe you can say it at the top of your lungs for us in the House, which I am doing. Either way, no matter what they come up with, I'm not giving up and doing business anymore. I'm never gonna become a regular brainless worker. [[11.50 hours]] The third and last letter in this window "Over the letters of the citizens." From the information available, it is clear that the EET did not produce any economic effect in any of the countries where it was introduced. So there are clear data from which the Ministry of Finance's EET plan is based, what is the plan of the Czech Ministry of Finance, what are the planned costs of the EET? The planned proceeds are what? Here, of course, those figures were presented to the writer Michal Zahradníček. We can argue with our colleague Volný or with other colleagues about their size. Sorry, Mr Pilný, I apologise through the President. What are the exact technological requirements for the introduction of EET for businessmen and businesses, and how much are the cost of acquisition, maintenance? We've actually calculated the costs here, and as I said at the beginning of my speech, they're short. Why does the Treasury want to introduce an EET only for some groups? If the EET is to be introduced, then it is obvious discrimination for all or otherwise. How is the planned use of EET data? Is there an accurate description that is binding? Is there an analysis of the risks associated with any misuse of personal data? writes Mr. Michal Zahradníček. I would thus close this window "Over the letters of the citizens" and my speech. I believe that some of the questions and serious facts I have put here will be answered and that we will actually discuss them in a way that we can come to a good conclusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u81	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I have a number of factual remarks here, however, before I give my word, so I'll read the note because a lot of them arrived at me. Today, from 11.00 to 10.00, for the reasons of work, Mr Adam apologizes for the reasons of health for today, Mr Novotný, today from 9.00 to 10.00 for the reasons of work, Mr Helena Langšádlová, today for the reasons of work Mr Pavel Holík, further from 9.00 to 11.00 for the reasons of work, Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes for the reasons of health, Mr Martin Plíšek apologises for the reasons of work today, from 12.00 to 14.00 for the reasons of work Mr Holík, from 11.15 and 13.00 for the reasons of doctor's visit to Mr Vlastimil Vozka, and for today's meeting from 11.00 to 12.00 for the reasons of work Mr Šarapatka apologizes for the reasons of health and for the whole day's reasons of apologising Mr Jiří Holík (?). So here are the factual points. Mr Pilný, Mr Zlatuška, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This meeting is not about VAT control reports, but since my previous speaker mentioned it here as another administrative burden for entrepreneurs, I applied to a factual remark, so I will stick to facts, not demagogy. Also, colleagues and colleagues, I have no ambition to educate you here, as my previous speaker had. VAT inspection reports shall be submitted to VAT payers. The limit is so high that there's no one who doesn't have at least the primitive accounting system in which invoices are issued. The only thing this report adds up to is that the invoice number has to be clear so the invoices can be paired. I consulted a number of companies that produce accounting systems, all of which will provide their customers with absolutely free of charge in the framework of regular maintenance. That's all, I just want to say that if you're sticking to facts, you just need two minutes and you don't have to have a fascicle of paper and collected anecdotes, just like my previous speaker did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u83	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Zlatuška, will be prepared by Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u84	Mr Vice-President Gazdík, when he paraphrased here what I recommended or did not recommend to the President of the ODS, he misunderstood that he would have to change the operator. I took advantage of one point from the speech by the President of ODS, where he referred to his own experience. Not something he doesn't have experience with, kind of business conditions or something. But his own experience of connecting to his cottage. He said he didn't have a connection and he couldn't run a business there. LTE coverage map, not of any signal, but of a relatively high quality signal from 16. 12. on the ČTÚ website shows that the whole village is without problem covered, a substantial part of one operator and robust internal coverage. One operator has a few objects in the basic internal coverage. When the Vice-President combines this data here with publicly available data from the real estate register and images available in Google or on mapy.cz , so he finds that for the President of the ODS to come out of his premises to a place where he doesn't have coverage, he would go beyond the fence of his garden about 250 metres and there he would find about 100 meters small place where the coverage of the LTE signal, not the signal of others, because it will be there, but the quality signal of the LTE, he will not find. It is roughly as if Vice-President Gazdík complains that Parliament is not connected to a mobile signal, because if he goes somewhere in the basement, he'll find one place where the signal won't work. [[Attention on time.]] I stress this was a matter where the chairman of the ODS referred to his personal experience. It wasn't even true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u85	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Kučera, Mr Seďa will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u86	Hello, thank you for your word. My colleague Pilný here called for the facts, and I'd like to take a few facts about the EET project. I'm not gonna say it's Balkan news, because I'm meeting a disagreement here, which I don't understand why, when it comes from the Balkans. I would quote here from one material that is prepared for the Ministry of Finance and, of course, answers some questions. I'm sorry Mr. Zlatuška isn't here to hear it too. [[President: My colleague, Zlatišek, is here.]] A risk map. Division - 1 almost impossible risk or almost impossible probability, exceptionally possible probability is 2, normally possibly 3, likely 4 and bordering with certainty 5. I'll name only the four and five for my colleague Pilný here. It's interesting to hear it. Likely risk - selection of poor quality supplier. It's a likely risk. Risk bordering with certainty - lack of skilled and high-quality workforce at operational stage. Dependence on specific employees and employers. Insufficient knowledge or need of specific know-how. And what, I think, is essential, is the risk of being sure, the risk associated with setting up the contractual relationship of maintenance and operation of the system, i.e. dependence on suppliers. Another risk, and this is absolutely crucial again, bordering with certainty, i.e. stage 5, is a security risk. These risks have not been eliminated. With these risks, Minister Babiš here presents us with this material for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u87	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you, now Mr Seďa, Minister Babiš will prepare himself with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just made two notes. It is legitimate when the opposition raises reservations here and asks questions to the petitioner, but I would like to point out that we are at third reading, i.e. that this discussion was to take place in the first and in particular in the second reading. And I was looking at this House Press 513/3, which is amendments, and I found only two amendments from the opposition. That's the first thing. [[12.00 hours]] Two. Personally, I take the Sales Recording Act as a measure against the grey economy, tax evasion, and also a means of settling business relations. I will remind you that according to the Centre for Economic and Market Analysis, it is up to 614 billion. CZK hidden in hidden economic transactions, especially in services. With this money from the shadow economy, up to 1.5 miles could be created. jobs with an average wage in the Czech Republic. I'm not illusioning that EET will somehow do whatever it takes to make all tax evasion go away. But if we could only manage 5, 10 percent of these tax evasions, then we have the money needed for public services, health, education and security. I beg you to remember that. Let us vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u89	Have a good noon. Thank you, Mr Seďa. Another point of fact is the Minister Babiš. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I'm terribly sorry that we're at the third reading, and either nobody really understood what's going on, or they're demagogically saying incredible things here. So one more time. We are talking about the record of sales and it is either through the register cash registers that we have in 13 countries of the European Union or we are talking about the electronic record of sales, which is already in Croatia, in Slovenia starting on 1 January 2016, it is in a few weeks, in Hungary they have, Bulgaria has and Slovakia goes from 1 January 2016. It's not true, and we're talking about records of sales, either I have a register or a state-of-the-art method, and it has nothing to do with the Croatian economy, it's state-of-the-art technology. And it's not true that it only concerns small businesses and businessmen. I don't understand why she's still lying here. Only those who collect in cash, credit card, checks, meal vouchers will be involved in the EET, which means when the trader is billing, so it doesn't concern him at all. I don't understand what we're talking about. This is a battle against the gray economy. And I am sorry that President Fiala, through Mr President, confuses terms. He's talking about 7 percent, but you're talking about the black economy, we're calling it the black economy: it's drugs, prostitution, those who are totally black. And the gray one is 40 percent, Mr. Ambassador. Fialo through the President, so remember this - 40 percent. And it's a figure of the Czech Statistical Office. It's not true, either, what you're saying is that the gray economy is falling. Non-drawling - 160 billion in 2012. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] In 2013 - 169.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u91	Minister, I would like to give you my word, but before you is Mr Vondráček, then Mr Stanjura, then again you, then Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Kučera, Mr Bendl, Mr Jakubčík. Mr Vondráček withdraws his application, so with a factual remark from Mr Stanjura. After him, the minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u92	Mr. Pilný is not here at the moment, so I will not speak to him or through or without means. However, he began the debate on the inspection report. I accept it. And I would like, then, on Tuesday, when he talks about it, that under the Rules of Procedure, I am responding to the speeches of the previous speakers. So he says how the invoices will be paired. I'm asking, how will they pair invoices that go to the turn of the month? How will invoices be paired when you have a monthly and quarterly payer? What is the point of the reverse charge inspection report, where no carousel fraud is likely to occur because of this? So these are specific things that will complicate life. It's too easy to say we're pairing it up and evaluating it. And then it matters, and that's gonna be a professional debate about the IT environment, about how we choose the means to do it, how to actually secure it, and how long it's going to be paired up. If I only take a quarter payer and a monthly payer, all the rumors that the company will disappear in eight hours and they'll never get it again, they'll be gone because by law, it'll be months, because if no one gives it, then you don't have a second reading to pair it up, even if no one gets wrong and takes the exact data. And then it's just - it's free for regular maintenance. But regular maintenance is paid. Annual contracts are mostly used and, among other things, annual contracts, which include maintaining the legislative topicality of a given product, calculate the proposed legislative changes, hence the complexity of software editing and therefore supply. So there's nothing for free. I don't know the software company that does it, maybe some are, but it's a normal business, if you're offering your clients editing and upgrading or maintaining legislative topicality, it's normal to pay for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u93	Thank you. Minister Babiš with a point of order. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u94	Thank you. So it's a gray economy. I thank Mr. Fial that we have the same opinion as we do - by reducing taxes. And what did you do? We had a 5% rate on drugs, food, sale of family homes, facilities, water, heat, aids for the disabled - and you increased the rate from 5 to 15 percent. And under this law, we propose to cut from 21 to 15 percent. So we're cutting taxes. I agree with that. You're referring to Mr Schneider. He says that the share of the grey economy in Austria is 8 percent and we have 15. Agreed. Then let someone explain to me why Austria is introducing register registers on 1 January 2016 when they are 8 percent and we are 15 and you say we are not. I really don't understand. It's an incredible demagogy that's gone. Mr. Bendl here says we're forcing someone. No, everyone has the freedom to decide. His cash register, if he's connected and able to access the Internet, he'll connect and he'll decide how. There's no supplier. That's what you wanted to do here in 2007, when Kalousek here voted twice for the register, where everyone was knocking on the suppliers to get a commission. We say let everyone choose. Indeed, I was very surprised by President Gazdík - 20 billion. I don't know where you're going with this nonsense. Who wrote this to you? I really didn't expect such a bunch of untruths from you, because you usually perform normally without demagogy and without lies. And to the LRV - yes, there was a whole series of comments, but we settled them. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Finally, the LRV said it was okay, so it's out of context again. And it's untrue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u95	Thank you, Minister. I'm sorry if I hurt him. Now, with Mrs Langšádlová's point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u96	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to make a comment on Mr Seda through Mr President. You cannot expect the opposition's amendments, because when the government makes such a poor proposal, if the government makes such a dangerous proposal, it makes no sense to modify it with amendments. And the fact that this is a dangerous proposal, I would like to say, for example, that it is really data collection. Data, which here at the moment and someone's handy. And that the Minister here is ready to abuse data at any time, he has proven several times in this place. At this point he said several times: we know, we know who doesn't pay taxes. Once said Vietnamec, the second said this group, this group. What does that mean? Does the Finance Minister have access to this kind of information? He doesn't. Unless the Minister of Finance is already using the data he has today, he could never claim that, because even the Minister of Finance does not have access to this data at the moment! So he wants more data and he wants to continue using them. Do you realize what he wants?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u97	Thank you, Mrs Langšádlová. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Babiš has entered for the third time, followed by Mr Kučera, Mr Bendl, Mr Jakubčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u98	No, I'm really enjoying Mrs. Langšádlová. I'll give you the brochure. [[He's pointing.]] The data is total VAT and total sales. Then what are you talking about? You're lying again!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u99	I beg you, Minister, to entertain you through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u100	Then stop lying. So don't let him say it's not true. In this brochure, I can redistribute it here, it is clearly stated that the data that the Financial Administration will receive, which is independent, that there is no purchase detail or consumption detail, that there is only total VAT and total revenue. Well, I don't really know what we're talking about here. I'd just like to repeat the different untruths that have gone away about Croatia. In addition, Croatia has collected taxes, improved the collection of all taxes and reduced VAT. I really don't understand why they're performing here and telling the truth. I mean, this is where Mr. Laudát got off and he criticizes me. Please, I'll be the cashiers today, when we're done handing out the cashiers in person, and I've rented a room at the Treasury since December 14th, I have a contract and I pay CZK 235 for every day and CZK 7 for handling. So, Mr. Laudate, if you're interested, come and see, I'll show you the contract. I buy cashiers with my money, and our kids are intelligent because they know when they go shopping with their parents, they get a receipt. Our opposition says not the receipt! So our kids need financial literacy, we need to teach them from a young age - you go to the store, so whoever gives you the receipt, he contributes to your teacher, to salaries, to firemen, to the police, to the army, to the highways, because it's our money. And you're just doing everything you can to keep this state from collecting $30 billion, because control reports, sales records and gambling are $30 billion a year! [[Time.]] So if you're criticizing me like that, I'm just saying - the box -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u101	I'm sorry, Minister. I'm afraid your time for a factual remark is up. With a point of fact, as another Mr Kučera. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u102	I'm not going to respond to the demagoguery by the Minister of Finance, we've gotten used to it that it's not the Minister of Finance, it's the Minister of Demagogy. [[Inconvenient speeches by Members YES.]] And a few numbers from the Ministry of Finance material. So it's from the Ministry of Finance's number material. And, of course, it is a bit of an answer to Mr Seďa, who said here how big the economy is and how much the EET will hit from the grey economy. So I quote numbers unlike the emotional demagogy of the Minister of Finance. According to the Statistical Office, 4 sectors where the share of the grey economy is above average account for more than 31 percent of total GDP. It is a construction which has 7.4 %, trade, repair of motor vehicles and consumer goods - 11,8 %, hospitality and accommodation - i.e. where we primarily target with EET - 1,9 %, transport, storage, mail and telecommunications - 10,5 %. This means that it can be assumed that the grey economy in these sectors is more than 200 billion. Other sectors such as services, agriculture, production, consumer goods, etc., which is 400 billion, must be taken into account. together. From the Ministry of Finance's materials: A pessimistic scenario - selects 1 %, that is 4 billion, conservative - 3 %, i.e. 12 billion, and optimistic 5%, i.e. 20 billion. So not 20 per cent, as Mr Seďa here said, not 15 per cent. In an optimistic scenario, it's 5% that hits the EET. And that's how I think a few numbers were enough for that little demagogy that Mr. Finance Minister Babiš said here, but of course, we're all used to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u103	Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Martin Novotný and Mrs Langšádlová, followed by Mr Martin Novotný and Mr Langšádlová, is another duly registered comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I would like to make a point of fact and direct you to an independent article published by the Czech Radio. The article is called Electronic Recording can complicate business, not everywhere is available fast internet. This note that people can choose their operator. The Ministry of Finance, I quote, has not specified the exact requirements for the operation of sales records yet, but it is already clear that entrepreneurs will need a stable internet connection. But that is missing in the Czech Republic in many places. Czech Radio compared maps of fast mobile internet to the address log and found over 60,000 addresses, which are not within reach of the mobile fast network of either of the three Czech operators. According to the trade database, there are at least six dozen entrepreneurs in retail or hospitality, which are to be touched by electronic sales records in the first stage. Then there are quotes from individual entrepreneurs who are worried that either the Internet network will not work or that there are power outages, the Internet network is fluctuating, etc., and they will have to drive and look for places in at least five days, where they can connect to the Internet, for fear that they will be severely sanctioned. It's just a confirmation that when we were talking about complications in connection with the Internet connection, there would be complications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u105	I thank Mr Bendl. With another point of fact, Mr Martin Novotný, Mrs Langšádlová, followed by Minister Babiš, Mr Schwarz. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u106	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I just wanted to come back a few minutes, maybe a quarter hour back and see if I heard the numbers correctly when the minister began to distinguish between the economy of gray and black. So I am not one of those who would have read the book Fifty Shades of Gray, which is about something I've heard, a little different than the gray economy, a different subject, but the numbers 40, 15 were said here. I was looking at the Ministry of Finance's official material. So those numbers don't match what Minister Babiš said, so if he could repeat the numbers to us, let me get this straight, see if I overheard myself, or if the Minister made a mistake.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u107	I thank Mr Novotný. With another point of fact, Mrs Langšádlová, after whom Minister Babiš, Mr Schwarz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u108	Minister, I understand that you have some brochures, but for me, your actions and your behavior are crucial. You're standing here saying that some groups don't pay taxes. You said Vietnamec allegedly don't pay taxes, you said other groups don't pay taxes, but you didn't answer me on what information! Was it based on your abuse of authority? Was it based on the fact that you entered the Financial Administration data? After all, it is known that you abuse your authority, that you send checks on those who dislike you who oppose you. It was in the media several times. Minister, on what grounds did you say that? You don't even have access to this information as Minister of Finance. Minister, it doesn't matter what brochures you have in your hand. It is important how you behave, and you are already showing today that you know how to abuse data, that you know how to abuse your interest and that you are exploiting your economic interests. Minister, on what grounds did you say so?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u109	Thank you, Mrs Langšádlová. Now Minister Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u110	I'd like to ask Mrs. Langšádlová, I'd like to ask for these dirty lies. Bring some evidence I used. I didn't abuse anything! So study it! Open Eurostat! There's your VAT gap. Yesterday I lectured seven ministers in the ALDE faction - Dutch, Belgian, Slovenian, Danish, Finnish. VAT gap - The Czech Republic is today a leader within the EU and we are being robbed by 80 billion! That's official data, colleague, so study it! And I fundamentally refuse to take advantage of anything! Financial administration is independent, and I'm not using anything. [[12.20 hours]] I have no access to this. And it's statistics. Yes, taxes don't apply. There's an organized carousel fraud crime that steals $80 billion a year. And that's why we're doing a reverse charge check if it means anything to you, okay? And that is why we are talking to the European Union to give us the competence. Well, those are public figures. Eurostat, my colleague, and nothing is being abused. Well, I'd love for you to stop lying because it's not true! Yes? And all the data, not just ours, but the OECD, say how much VAT doesn't pay here. Twenty-two percent overall. It's more than our deficit, 80 billion. So please don't tell me I'm using something. I've never used anything, and I'm gonna grow it up, such dirty lies! This is really unbelievable. And the Internet. As far as I know, there's a big project here. There are tens of billions of European funds - the Internet will be expanding and so far there are clear data. Today, according to the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, more than 90 percent of entrepreneurs communicate with customers electronically. And all we want is for their cash registers to communicate electronically. [[Attention on time.]] And when the Internet goes out, the businessman doesn't know, because it's in memory, and then within 48 hours, it's automatically printed. Well, that's just demagogy again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u111	Thank you, Minister. With another factual remark, Mr Bronislav Schwarz. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u112	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President. I'm not an expert on EET. I would just like, as a member of some category, to talk about one thing in two minutes - democracy. My democracy. You know, I understand... [[A slight laugh from the left.]] Now they're laughing, so I like to laugh too. I understand someone sent me here to the House. I understand that I don't like listening to bullshit or talking to you about anything anymore. I'm convinced that EET is the right thing to do. Not thanks to him, but because I've been through some development. So I'm convinced it's the right thing to do. I'm also convinced by a few people here. If they're left or right, I don't care. But we're convinced of that. Then there are people who aren't convinced. And that's how we're getting off here. And now I'm asking. We who believe that we want the EET to vote so that it doesn't go any further and we don't have to listen - I call it bullshit. And the others, when we cut them off, we end the debate, they say we're cut to law school, we want to talk about it. We want to talk, you cut us short in law school. And now I'm asking all of you in the whole room, and where are my rights? Where is the law of the majority who are convinced that the matter is good. Where are their rights? Their right is to listen to crap and wait for it to end? Don't be silly. That's not why people sent us here. Something must be going on here. And if there's a majority now, that's the right of the majority to make a law, to get it started and go forward. Please, I'm begging you. Where are my rights? I'm not gonna listen to anybody call him names. Then we're fighting with someone else. These are not the rights of Members or our voters. You didn't mean that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u113	I thank Mr Schwarz for his point of view. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr. Jan Zahradník, is now making a point of fact. After that, Mrs Kovářová, Mrs Langšádlová, followed by President Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u114	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, I also have to comment on this as an expert. I am not an expert in electronic sales records, so I tried to obtain information and received them from Czech Television, which last week, before starting negotiations, gave a rather long interview with Mr. Michl. Maybe he's an advisor to Minister Babiš for the economy. The editor asked quite seriously. Of course, the question of possible misuse of data, which the Ministry will collect, also came up on the agenda. I have made this clear because, of course, I consider it an important issue. And Counselor Michl replied, "Well, about the misuse and security of data, I wouldn't put my hand in the fire for that." - That's quite an important message for me. So let the Minister calm down and consult his advisors a little, because I would not like to be in the shoes of your colleagues who blindly trust your guru, Minister Babiš. Abuse is really here, and it is no wonder that we are so careful to ask about it and want to know everything about it. The Minister's advisor himself won't put his hand in the fire for security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u115	I thank Mr Zahradník. With another point of fact, Mrs Kovářová, Mrs Langšádlová, after her. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u116	Thank you for the floor. I'd have one big favor to ask when we're talking about these favors. I'd really like the Minister not to yell at us. We hear well. Minister, you're constantly calling for a substantive debate, and then we're going to hear a stream of hate speech, acquiescence. I want to tell you, if you're asking for something, we're asking for something, too. We beg you to present true and objective analyses to your laws. I'll just remind you that it doesn't turn out to be a budgetary determination of taxes, when you refused to give me an analysis that we got pretty much after we passed this law. I mean, virtually. We haven't yet. She was just shown to us. And if you're waving the paperwork with the analysis you're not going to give us then, it's really hard for us to be convinced. You said you liked Helena Langšádlová. Well, I'm telling you, you're not entertaining us anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u117	Before I give the floor to Mrs Langšádlová, I warn you that, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, we should interrupt our negotiations on this matter or this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at 12.30. Therefore, please do not make any further comments. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u118	Minister, I regret to say that you didn't understand what I said the second time. Minister, you are taking advantage of the tax administration's information if you have said some things here concerning individual groups whose information is not publicly available. Minister, it is a great risk that at a time when you are already acting in this way today, you will also act in the event of the introduction of an electronic record of sales. Minister, no Eurostat keeps a record of individual national groups and the fulfilment of their tax obligations. Minister, we are here to carry out our duties by drawing attention to these risks, and I am seriously asking you to answer what I am asking you. You really have only one interest, and that is your own economic interest!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u119	The last one with a point of fact is President Stanjura, because he's approaching 12:30. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u120	I'm not gonna beg for anything. But for Mr Schwarz, by your means, Mr Vice-President. When I get to the floor, I've been logged in since 9:00, so I'm gonna talk very really, really seriously. If you're saying that the imperfections of tax documents, as it's designed, if it's confusion, electronic sign or electronic signature, it's all bullshit, you have every right to do it. I'm just asking you, where does this pride come from calling our factual arguments bullshit and bullshit? I wouldn't dare. I'm arguing with you. The President has made clear reservations, facts, figures, graphs. And it's all bullshit and bullshit to you. Okay, I respect that. But where does that pride come from? Your right is to call our performance bullshit and bullshit, no doubt it is. But don't come here explaining what your personal democracy is. It may not be the right to listen to us, but it is your duty!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u121	There. Since it is 12:29 p.m., it will be 12:30 p.m. any minute, so I am interrupting the 37th meeting by Friday, January 8th, 9am. Sorry, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u122	It's a stew record, just to be clear. No one agreed with me. We have agreed to interrupt this meeting, that is true, so that we can do what the Minister of Defence from the ANO 2011 movement neglected, but no one has agreed with me, and I would never agree that this meeting should be interrupted by 8 January 9.00. Well, let's interpret our agreements exactly. This number was thrown out a moment ago by coalition officials in the hallway, I respect it, we are unable to change it in any way, but don't say that this is the agreement of the presidents of the MPs. No, it's not. Just the first part. Not the other one. If it were up to me, I'd say we agreed to interrupt this meeting by 8 June 2016. It's exactly the same deal as when we say it's until January 8, 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u123	There. Still Mr. Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u124	Mr President, I believe that you could interrupt the meeting until now. If the House's meeting is properly held according to the timetable, when you interrupt until the parliamentary week, I think that this interruption could be voted on as much as possible. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] Abort with the vote. But by your decision, only until the Chamber of Deputies' meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-037-02-003-999.u125	There. It is not my decision, it is on the basis of the agreement of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs. That's how it was presented to me. Is this a procedural proposal for a vote? Mr Koníček, shall I take that as a procedural proposal, which is voted on without debate? [[Yes.]] I'll check you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. There is a motion to adjourn the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Friday 8. 1:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a number 11 vote, 136 Members and Members registered, for 75, against 55. The motion was accepted. So, according to this vote, I am interrupting the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Friday 8. 1:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. I would like to inform my honored colleagues that the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue in 10 minutes, 1245 hours. Until then, I'm interrupting our negotiations.
