ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u1	105. Members Petr Fiala's proposal, Zbyněk Stanjura, Pavel Blažek, Jana Černochová and others for the issue of the Act repealing the Senate's legal measures No. 340/2013 Sb., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended /house print 426/ - first reading We received the Government's position as Parliamentary Press 426/1. I prosit that Mr Petr Fiala present the proposal for the appellants. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I am pleased that after some time I can present to you the proposal of the Civil Democratic Party to abolish the real estate tax, respectively. a draft law repealing the Senate's statutory measure introducing the property acquisition tax as successor to the property transfer tax. Our proposal also has some legislative elegance. When you look at it, the law actually only contains two sentences, and the second sentence is the determination of the effective date. Similarly, or as simple and understandable as the law is, it is also useful. I will explain its usefulness to you, I will try to present four points that show why the current property acquisition tax is disadvantageous, harmful, and why it is good that we cancel it in this situation. Firstly, the return on property acquisition tax is low, while the costs associated with this tax are relatively high. The proceeds of property acquisition tax are estimated at 9 billion. CZK annually, while the administrative costs and personnel costs of collection and administration of this tax are estimated to be around 18 percent. That means almost two billion. the money collected will swallow the operation of the state administration associated with this tax. It is also relatively difficult to determine the amount of the tax, where it is a comparison of the purchase price with the specific prices. Of course, the other costs are not only borne by the state, but also by taxpayers. If we sum it all up, we find that what has to be done about the tax and how much it costs, from the point of view of what the state gets on it, is ultimately very disadvantageous, and the tax is essentially expensive. Czech is not a country that could afford expensive taxes. Second argument. This is actually double taxation. Of course, before the purchase of the apartment was already taxed the income of the buyer, it is clear. But of course, and that is essential, the value added tax from the purchase of the first apartment has also been paid, so to pay the tax on each transfer and thus create further repeated taxation of something that has already been taxed is largely incorrect or incorrect and to a large extent nonsense. Thirdly, the tax partially impedes the development of the housing market and, as a result, restricts or affects the labour market. Of course, the tax is - and this is an undeniable fact - one of the barriers to a more flexible housing market and, of course, to better mobility for people who want to move to work. If I find an apartment, it is a good assumption for me to move out of work, to behave in some kind of work mobility that, as you know, is relatively low in the Czech Republic and it is one of the problems we have in this area. In order for the housing market to be flexible, so that people can move more easily after work, all barriers need to be removed. One of these barriers is this property acquisition tax. The fourth reason why the property acquisition tax is unnecessary or harmful is because this tax makes it difficult to get to the first housing. This can be demonstrated in clear numbers, which we all certainly understand. If a young family wants to get an apartment in two miles. CZK and would not pay this tax, so it saves 80 thousand. CZK, which is big money, for which he can buy an apartment or use it for something else. These are the basic four reasons for which we want not to reduce, but to cancel, to completely remove this tax from the Czech tax system, which will make it much easier again. This will strengthen labour market mobility, improve the situation in the housing market, help young families, while the loss to the state will not be too high. If you ask me, and I assume that such a question would be raised in the following discussion, where the state will take it - because in the Government's opinion, this is what the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia is talking about, contrary to the proposal by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, which was involved in sickness, the government here says that the amount is 9.3 billion. CZK will mean a significant decline in the state budget, which would probably have to be dealt with by increasing other taxes - so here I would have told those who would ask me and the government in advance that it would not have to deal with any tax increases, that the blackout, in the quotes of the blackouts, the 9 billion, and from that let's even count off the costs that the state has with it, so this blackout could be solved very easily by more disciplined government behavior. Let us just remember that the government increased the operating costs of ministries by 10,5 billion year on year. Kč. So if the government behaves more economically in the coming years, we can cancel this tax without the state budget feeling it at all. I think the arguments are clear that I've convinced many of you. I hope you will support this proposal to abolish unnecessary tax, a proposal that will help Czech citizens significantly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u3	Thank you. I'm going to ask you to take a seat at the plaintiff's table. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Jaroslav Klaška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, allow me to present a report on this bill as presented by Professor Fiala. It is therefore, as has already been said, a very simple bill aimed at abolishing the real estate acquisition tax, without compensation. It was delivered to the House on 12 March 2015. The opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic was delivered to Members on 9 April 2015 and is negative. As I have already said, this is a very simple bill to repeal the said measure of the Senate of the Czech Republic, but not with a negligible impact. The plaintiffs themselves state in the reasoning of their proposal that a reduction of the revenue of the state budget of 9 billion is expected by the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax. crowns a year. At the same time, the cost of collecting this tax will be reduced in hundreds of millions of crowns. Furthermore, the complainants argue that the abolition of the tax is also intended to increase investment in real estate and increase the revenue of the State from other taxes, in particular from income tax and VAT. However, this latest justification is not accompanied by any calculation, analysis or more detailed analysis. It therefore appears that this is a nonsystemic intervention in the tax system with a tax relief, as presented by the petitioner, Mr Fiala, but with a minus impact on the state budget by about 9 billion. CZK without compensation or any compensatory measure. The proposal therefore worsens the management of the state budget and therefore runs counter to the stable criticism of the plaintiffs of the state's mismanagement. I am referring to the paradox when one breath can demand tax relief with the impact of 9 billion. CZK, which worsens the state's management and also second-breath criticism of the government for mismanagement, when paradoxically this proposal contributes to this. [[17.20 hours]] I would like to point out from the Government's position that the government considers the proposed abolition of the real estate acquisition tax as an unjustified and unconceptive intervention in the Czech tax system. This tax has a long tradition in our tax system, and in various forms it is common in most countries of the European Union. The proceeds of the real estate acquisition tax are a stable income of public budgets, which is transparent, easy to prove, its administration and control relatively easy and can be assumed to be a small extent of tax evasion. The income from the real estate acquisition tax was 9 billion in 2014, as was said, more precisely 9.3 billion. CZK, and its possible cancellation would result in a decline in the state budget. The government is saying a significant state budget fall. The Government further argues that the proposed abolition of the real estate acquisition tax is not sufficiently justified and that the potential benefits of this procedure are not quantified in the explanatory memorandum. Nor is it justified by the opinion of the petitioners that the abolition of the tax will lead to an increase in real estate investment and an increase in the State's revenue from other taxes. On the contrary, the Government considers that the abolition of this tax would allow speculative transfers of immovable property, which could lead to tax evasion on income tax, since it can be assumed that taxpayers would prefer the transfer of immovable property in this form and avoid paying tax on free income. Another argument. The government points out that the implementation of the proposed change could lead to an inequality in the tax burden in relation to abroad. In practice, this would mean that if the tax on the acquisition of immovable property had been abolished in the Czech Republic, the tax would not have been paid by foreigners to our budget when the acquisition of immovable property outside the territory of our country would have been paid by our citizens, whereas the tax would normally have been paid by our citizens when the acquisition of immovable property which is located outside the territory of our State. And the last argument I would like to make. The Government points out that any cancellation of the real estate acquisition tax would be contrary to the recommendation of the European Commission, which reiterates the low taxation of property in the Czech Republic. European comedians and OECD support this type of tax, especially because they are less influenced by economic decision-making and their yield is stable. For all the above reasons, I do not recommend that the House press be released for further discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening up a general debate, and I will begin by reading the apologies that have come to me. Today, from 17.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová apologizes, today from 17.45 apologises for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Antonín, and of 29. 9. to 2. 10. on account of foreign travel, Mr Pavel Holík apologizes. I am registering a duly registered Mr Votava. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u6	Thank you for the floor. When I look in the government desks, there's only the Minister of Culture left. No one's present. So if the Minister could represent the government, if he's the only one here. I'm interested in the opinion - and I'm just reminding you, when it came to nine billion. In the proposal by colleagues from the left, ideologically close to social democracy, the consequences were not addressed. There is a very detailed solution, and it is correct that the consequences are addressed in detail. I criticized it wasn't there, not that it's here. However, I would like to explain what the government meant by speculative property donation. Does that mean that when a person sells property and finds out there's no real estate tax, he'll give it to the buyer? I don't understand. It's under point 3 of the government's position, and I need to explain it. I don't know how speculatively someone will volunteer to donate their real estate. Donate, I say, not sell. And I'm just going to repeat a few numbers, and those numbers are from the Parliament's press 423, and they're the Ministry of Finance's numbers. So in 2014, we had 140,000 tax returns, or taxpayers of this tax, and only about 8,000 legal persons. This means that most of the taxpayers of this tax are individuals who sell or buy. There's real estate on the other side. It's true that the buyer will eventually pay for it. It's taken into account in the purchase price. It's not important who formally takes it to the state, whether the seller or the buyer. Both parties know about this, automatically adding 4 percent to the seller's purchase price. The fact that one or the other party can pay for it, that they sometimes vouch for each other, that's another thing, but it's projected. So if we cancel, there's definitely going to be a discount, and those sellers aren't going to calculate this for the price they want when they're offering their property. The 780 officials who are managing today - and it is true that this is simple for the state of administration - I agree with that. By sending it to the cadastral, just like it's traceable, I understand all that. And now without irony, really without irony. These nearly 800 officials could be chasing those big crooks, those big fish, they could be dealing with the carousels. And I'm saying, I don't mean that as a joke, I'm serious. Of course they'd have a harder job. Because managing a property acquisition tax at the tax office is really purely mechanical, simple activity. It is true that it is not entirely simple to calculate the tax by how the legal measure is set up. It's not that simple, sometimes you need an expert opinion, and that's why they're increasing, especially if there's a non-residential unit in that house. It's complicated, in that moment, it's just for the financial office, and how many houses are a non-residential unit. So it's really not that simple, and it's not trivial. And again, all the vendors hire someone to do it, who will prepare it for their money as consulting work and so on. But 800 people are quite a lot for 140,000. If you look at the answer to my interpelation, you'll find that there are about 15,000 people working on the financial administration in general, but only 9,000 are devoted to this tax collection and administration. And 800 is really a significant number, and these people could be dealing with the collection of other, more substantial taxes, where the state collects hundreds of billions a year, not 9 billion. If you look at the draft state budget - which we don't have yet, the last version available, but we have one more day of time, so I'm not criticizing it. Tomorrow is the last day we have to have it on the House website. First of all, the government is counting on an increase in income of 60 billion, and this is based on a relatively pessimistic estimate of growth, which is 2.5 percent of GDP. Today, even independent institutions generally agree that this will be 3,5 percent or more, which creates an additional estimate of 15 billion. There will be record tax revenues due to the economic cycle. So it's not true that the proposal would have a fundamental effect on the state's management. Yes, he would force the government to make more savings. That's right. Respectfully for savings, because no savings are made. Sometimes we saw such, and he was an expert former First Deputy Minister of Finance Wagenknecht, who could find the cheapest office paper, at least in Central Europe. However, if you look at the operating expenditure of the ministries, then for 2015 plus 10,5 billion. Those are the so-called savings. No savings are made. If you look at the draft state budget, at least the one that was the last in eKLEP, next year it is proposed to increase the number of civil servants by almost 13,000. 13,000. At the same time, an increase in wages is proposed for officials. And we say yes to those who deserve it. But once again, as it is a typical leftist solution, everyone as well, not those who deserve it, but everyone is proposed anyway. By the way, this is also aimed at municipal and regional budgets if government regulations pass, and that is why we will propose an increase in the share of shared taxes for municipalities, because these are additional costs which in no way any self-government is able to influence. The government will decide to increase the tariffs, of course this applies to the employees at municipal and regional offices, and therefore there is actually an unforeseen cost for those municipalities, whoever runs the cities. So if we look at it without prejudice, the tax is not effective: 9 billion. a year, or 10 if you count, or you don't charge, 9 to 10 billion, so we don't take our word for it. In 2014 - we have the last number - the state has selected more than 800 billion. tax revenue, so we're talking about less than 1%. And this year it will be more and next year it will be even more thanks to economic growth. So 1 per cent is nothing catastrophic. [[17.30 hours]] We talked about what rates to have or not to have in VAT. Today's government parties are criticizing our decision from the last parliamentary term, when we have raised rates in connection with the second pillar. Now we're proposing to cut them down because you're canceling the second pillar, so all of a sudden it's good and you're criticizing us for the reduction. So you always criticize us. Whether we propose to raise or reduce the rate, it is always wrong from the perspective of existing government parties. And I think there's only one thing that can pay. Either raise them badly or lower them badly. But your logic: When we are in opposition, so raise them wrong, and when we are in government, so reduce them wrong, because we can use the money. So if you look at it rationally, we don't have to invent any grant titles. If you look at another one of my written interviews that we are about to discuss, read the Minister of Finance's reply, for which I really thank him, where there is an overview of all grant titles from national sources and an overview of all the sums paid in 2014. You'll learn incredible information. I'm sure we'll discuss this as soon as next Thursday comes to a written interview. That's also the means to get the money. Because subsidies by their very nature are unfair. It's just someone who gets it, the chosen group. Mostly those who write a better grant application, not who write a better application. But who better write it, better justify it, more colorful, more structured and so on. So if you look at this without prejudice, you can support the proposal. The real estate market is booming, the young families in particular are relieved, the state budget will not be burdened in any way. In a significant way, I will. So I would probably ask Minister Herman if there is no one else to explain to us how he sees the significant budgetary burden when we have nearly 1,400 billion. expenses, and now we're talking about nine billion. Take the percentage - it's not even one percent. And what that point 3 of the government's opinion sees is "the property will be donated in a specific way." I really don't understand. I assumed that those who sell the property wanted to get money. And all we want to do is put away the four percent of the deal so it stays that way. Plus, it's a tax that's really hard to explain. Each of you meets voters in your offices at least on Mondays, and you can certainly explain to them why there is income tax, why there is VAT, even the problematic real estate tax, that the city somehow takes care of the street, lights up there, cleans it up. But the transfer tax - I'm gonna get something, I'm gonna sell it out of taxed money in a few years, and suddenly I'm gonna pay four percent of it? I don't understand. If we were to say that if at least the cadastral function was financed, but it's not nearly as expensive. So the administration of the state itself is not as expensive as how much it is chosen. But it is true that it is a tax that is simply levied, which the state can simply check, but that does not mean that we should not completely abolish the tax. Many of you, especially here from the club of the YES movement, are angry when we say that it is the left-wing government, and we say that it is the left-wing government. And that's what you call us, whether on a microphone or off a microphone: that's not true, I'm a right-wing politician, I don't see it that way. I have no reason not to trust you many. Not all of them, but many of you believe it. Here's your chance to prove it. It's not a government proposal. It is not as political as it is with income tax or other tax laws. This is simply a thing that can help 130,000 taxpayers who pay this hard to explain and hard to justify every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u7	Thank you. Before we continue the debate, I will read the note that has arrived. Today, from 6:00 p.m. for medical reasons, Mr. Vojtěch Adam apologizes until the end of the meeting. Today, as of 17.45, Mr Rostislav Vyzula apologizes for reasons of work. Furthermore, on Tuesdays from 17 to 19 o'clock, for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Blažek apologizes. Mrs Ivana Dobešová also apologizes today because of her foreign trip. And today between 5:30 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. Mr. Bohuslav Chalupa apologizes for his business trip. Furthermore, for the same reason, several Members apologize, today from 17.35 hours on account of the participation of the delegation of the Friends Group in the Embassy of the People's Republic of China, Mr Marta Semelová, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Member Miroslav Opálka, Member Leo Luzar, Member Stanislav Grospič and Mr Josef Nekl. The Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman, is now duly enrolled in the debate with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, it's just that I've been called upon by my colleague Stanjura, so I've looked up government material. Basically, I suppose you could say on the subject, which, of course, I don't have to convince anyone here that it doesn't directly concern my department, but I'm here, as I was asked, as a member of the government. The government believes that the abolition of this tax would allow tax evasion in particular from income taxes. In the explanatory memorandum, the petitioners merely point out that the aim of the proposal is to abolish the Senate's legal measure without compensation, and further to calculate the effects on the state budget, and it is claimed that this will increase investment in real estate and increase the income of the State from other taxes, in particular from income tax and VAT, which is more than debatable. The proposal is non-systemic, non-conceptive, creating an inequality of tax burden in relation to abroad and would also be contrary to the recommendations of the European Commission, which reiterates the low taxation of property in the Czech Republic. Well, I guess it's just in a nutshell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u9	Thank you, Minister. In fact, the President Stanjura is reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u10	I don't really want to argue with the Minister of Culture. It's ruthless that he has to defend the government on economic issues. But since you've come, Minister, I can read. I read it. I think the rapporteur read it quite honestly in his introductory words, because it was a correct speech by the rapporteur, who made arguments both for the petitioners and for the government. But I really read it, and I didn't find the speculation in it. I would like to see an example of how speculatively I donate property. Why would I do that? Besides, if there's no tax, right? I don't understand. You mean, of course there's property punishment. The moment you buy the property and sell it for two days with some profit, you pay the income tax. But in order to avoid income tax of 15 percent, will you speculate on giving the property to someone? There I really lack the economic logic of the taxpayer's behaviour. He would have saved 15 percent for the tax, but he wouldn't have charged a penny for his real estate, and he would have lost it. And that's what I wanted to explain. Certainly the opinion on this bill was not written by the Ministry of Culture. I certainly believe that, and I don't want to test him here, because it's not really his agenda. But it's a disgrace to the government that not one economic minister here. Neither. So how does this government really feel about this proposal, how does it really want to talk about it? The government doesn't give a shit. It's an opposition proposal, just keep him busy fast, we're not going in there, we've got more important things to do. Understood, some government members, like the Prime Minister, are at an international meeting, where the apology is absolutely appropriate, we are not criticizing that. We always say that, if the Prime Minister is fulfilling his duties as Prime Minister abroad, that's perfectly okay, and a note is in order. I also criticize the absence of the Prime Minister, but economic ministers. And there's plenty of them. Finance, MIT, right too. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you for the floor, but there's no one out of that government to oppose it anyway. It's a real shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u11	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Adolf Beznoska. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond very briefly to the words of the rapporteur, who has multiplied Minister Herman, namely that the measures to abolish this tax are non-systemic. We came to the House looking for a solution. And this tax, it may seem unsystemic to you, but I would expect a government coalition to come up with a systemic measure in the Czech tax system. The only thing you have shown is the third rate of VAT, with the Czech tax system being about the hundred eighth most complicated in the world. That is why there is a proposal from the Civil Democratic Party to come up with this proposal for taxes, where possible, real and simplifying the Czech tax system. The second impact that Minister Herman and the rapporteur pointed out is the impact on the state budget. Calculated impacts are about 9.3 billion. Crowns. I will not go into detail, but in economic growth, which will be significantly higher than the Ministry of Finance estimated 2.5 percent - where Minister Babiš creates at least 1% of the reserve, which is about 13 billion. Crown - it can be handled very elegantly, very easily. And this largely unnecessary tax can be abolished. Please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u13	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by President Pavel Kováčik. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it also shows in this debate how different approaches are, different meters, whether from the right or from the left. When we were talking about the deadline, it was 9 billion. was a dramatic loss and a dramatic fall, while now - well, about 18 or what percentage of the cost, in the net it is over 7 billion... It's nothing at all. The state budget can handle that. So there are different approaches. However, I would take a coin rather than what the Minister said here that the European Union has comments that there is an unusually low taxation of property in the Czech Republic. And so I am prepared to vote, of course, in favour of the motion to reject it, but if it fails to reject it, then I will seriously consider that I or any of my colleagues will prepare a proposal for a progressive tax in this regard, too, because that would then be fair and could resolve European comments on the low taxation of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u15	I want to ask you, Mr. Chairman. So are you making a motion to dismiss, or are you just joining in when someone submits it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u16	I'm serving it right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u17	You're filing a motion to dismiss. [[Emissary Kováčik agrees.]] Thank you. I have two more factual points here. I'll read one apology first. From 17.40 until the end of the day, Mr Adam apologizes for health reasons. And now the de facto remark made by President Stanjura and after him by Mr Laudát. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u18	So today we have a nice right-left clash, and I think that's a good thing. But Chairman Kováčik didn't get it quite right, I'm sorry. The amount is approximately the same. But you're suggesting that employers carry that amount, not the state budget. And we propose to leave the money to taxpayers at the expense of the state budget. So we didn't say anything about it hitting the state budget dramatically. I was just asking who was gonna pay, and the debate said that they were gonna be employers. Although the amount is similar. So you're proposing - and with you Social Democrats, I don't know exactly who else voted with you on the previous point or the first point today, but the Social Democracy Club certainly does, unlike the Yes Club - you're proposing 9 billion. increase the tax burden and we propose to reduce the tax burden by 9 billion. That's a really diametrical difference. The proposals are not identical in that each of them would give taxpayers 9 billion. If that were the case, and you would suggest for example. reduction of insurance, i.e. tax relief for taxpayers of 9 billion, so you would most likely have our support and not our criticism. So there's really a difference if I take tax charges -- that's what you proposed with the support of social democracy, or I give taxpayers -- and that's what we're proposing. The number is approximately the same, but the mole is the opposite - plus or minus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u19	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Laudát, with a point of fact, after which President Kováčik. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond to my colleague Kováčik after all. Anyone you ask who has visited Paris in the past in decades with some distance from Paris will tell you that the situation is getting worse there. The situation is getting worse because there is something that Mr Kováčik here is calling for. This means who has property must be punished repeatedly by taxes, taxes. I mean, if you make money, they're already taxed. You build, you pay taxes. And in France, the situation has come to such a great extent that you'll notice the shabby houses. And, as we were told, even outside of Paris, property owners have gotten into a situation - not that they don't have the investment, they don't even have the simple payment of the outrageous taxes. If you want to try these experiments here, I warn you, unlike once-rich France, that you will send this country to its knees! In an incredible way. Attacking the middle class, the ones who own something, that's the last drop that anyone here really thinks about - and I'm not talking about the super-rich, because if something's gonna stop, it's transfers to unnecessary subsidies, sucking public money into this nonsense. But for God's sake, if you still want to touch the property owners... I think that real estates in the Czech Republic, especially houses, are in such a state that socialist care was not enough to recover. And when I hear this, I admit that I see red, but quite differently from my colleague Kováčik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u21	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark, President Kováčik and Mr Novotný will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u22	I'd like to discuss this, perhaps, for the sake of clarity. Yes, it's a right-left conflict. If the right proposes as little tax as possible, it should be said that if the tax is as low as possible, it will also be as low as possible for public services. It will be as low as possible for the construction of roads, the maintenance of roads, it will be as low as possible for the maintenance of our cities and municipalities, it will be as low as possible for education, education, it will be as low as possible for health care and a number of other things. The KSČM approach is, and we will not hide and hide with this, and our proposals in this regard also go that it needs to be a really fair, progressive taxation. The point is that someone is using a larger part of the common garden, a larger bed in the common garden, and thus has a larger yield, and therefore it is appropriate that they also contribute a little more to the common mug than the others. While the right-wing approach is to strangle the poorest, the left-wing approach is this justice. I don't think there's anything against real estate maintenance. [[Noise from the right.]] After all, a proper caretaker keeps the properties right. It's not that we want to screw up the owners of family houses atp. That's mine. about the need to stop those meaningless transfers that go from our country to abroad. For example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u23	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Novotný and after him, Mr Laudát. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u24	Colleagues and colleagues, in the speeches of my previous speakers, there have been several arguments that agreeing with this proposal would also mean going against the direction of the European Union's recommendations in terms of our tax system and its structure, the type of taxes that we perceive. I think it is sometimes worth recalling that fiscal policy itself is one of the few things that this Parliament is still a sovereign parliament in terms of decision-making. And in this regard, I just want to say for myself that I am not interested in this European Union recommendation at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u25	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Laudát and President Stanjura will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, through you to Mr Kováčik - a big mistake. The poorest is behind left-wing governments, and the left-wing robs the poorest, because if society thrives, and it can only prosper when you're doing right-wing politics, then it's even more public-sector. It's not true. For any crisis, the first ones to fall asleep and pay for it are the poorest people. When social democracy has increased electricity, it is typically a super-antisocial measure, even if you do anything else, and then instead you offer them beggars. Then we talk about the fact that if they don't get sick for three days, they're gonna kneel, which may even be true. It is beautiful when Mr.Foldyna inadvertently said over the miserable situation in the Šluknov Ridge: "Oh, my God, they don't want to work when there's a job opportunity, because they don't see it. It's better to sit on support." That means what Mr. Kováčik says, it's not. It's just a big mistake that the right is taking away the poorest. No, left. Left makes armies unemployed. After all, they're their constituents, so why wouldn't they make them? Practice shows it. But before progressive property taxation - do you know what the decaying or sleeping one does in France, so I'm not completely pessimistic, middle class does in France? She's starting to vote for extreme parties. If that's what you want? I didn't start here until a ghost in 1948. I don't want to play it all superpolitically, but they're telling the stories out loud. It was then that we'd let the little peasants, they'd be able to farm, then they'd take it down, and whoever fought back ended up on the gallows or in the prison. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u27	Thank you, too. Now, Chairman Stanjura. President Kalousek will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u28	I must strongly reject President Kováčik's words when he said that the right is attacking the poorest. That's just not true. If you look into our recent history at changing the tax laws that right-wing governments have passed, the tax on income is not paying you the poorest. Apart from the fact that there are tax breaks, there are tax bonuses. That's helping those who have a lower standard of living. Income tax is not paid, and many of them collect tax bonuses. And it's right for us to understand each other. Keep the cliché. I know them from those communist textbooks when I was a pupil at primary school, how capitalists exploit the poorest and how the Communist party cares for everyone and how they make a paradise on earth. It's just not like that. And unfortunately, we have experience with your regime, which has behaved completely differently than it has claimed. I don't want to remember the last regime right now. I just want to reject your claim that the right is promoting something at the expense of the poorest. It's not true. And we can go to any of them, because we still have some tax proposals here, to say what the political party has advocated and pushed through, and to which groups it has helped more, and to which it has helped less. If you look at the comparison within the OECD, the most advanced economies, and compare the taxation of the lower class, I think in terms of income classes, then the Czech Republic is very good at this compared to other developed countries. So that's not true. Let's really not use this. I understand your political opinion that you want progressive property taxation. I understand that. We don't think so, we have a different opinion, but it's not at the expense of the poorest. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I want to remind you that those who buy real estate are very often in debt, and then they work for years, and they pay it back for years. It's not like they all have a million, two, three saved for the apartment. On the contrary, young families are in debt for decades in advance. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u29	Thank you. Now, President Kalousek. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, I will not discuss matters. I think that the factual arguments here have basically all fallen. I just want to think a little bit about the procedural side of things. We strive for a year to discuss some of the opposition proposals which the opposition clubs consider to be priority. A year. This afternoon, we have achieved that of the 2 196 press submitted by opponents, perhaps eight of them can be discussed - one for each club. The government is treating this with the seriousness I see here. The government is attended by the occasionally wandering Minister of Culture, who, as we know, is an exceptional tax expert, or at the previous point in the agricultural soil fund. This corresponds to the Rules of Procedure. I can't object and complain. I can only tell you: look at how seriously you perceive the category of Members of the first, second, third and fourth categories when you start talking about the dictation of the minority towards the majority, how you approach the opposition's proposals. And we're gonna pay you back, be absolutely sure of that. Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u31	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. For one thing, I'm glad the opposition window even got on the show. We didn't have that from 2010 to 2013, so some sentences from some colleagues don't make me cry. And other than that, I don't really see it as a right-left dispute. This is a dispute between those who think of themselves and those who think of what the state should look like. Even right-wing governments in Japan have introduced a tax system that is significantly differentiated. And if, for example, the right here is proposing a concrete change in the property transfer law, I can imagine a proposal that will tax non-productive property. That's what's been missing for 25 years! I mean, look at the ruined spa houses that somebody from abroad bought because our real estate tax was a hundredth against neighboring Germany. And why wouldn't someone buy such property in 1992 and 1993? That's what we're missing! Not abolishing some law that introduces a tax. I'm not saying the tax is right. I have a different opinion about that. I think that while maintaining it, we can talk about how we will look into it next time, because the tax on non-productive property known in a number of economically developed countries is, of course, much more important than canceling our tax and thinking that it is too expensive. It doesn't really work that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u33	Thank you. I note another point of fact, and Mr. Jiří Koskuba has it. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief remark. Threats have already been made several times, as will tomorrow's day. I do not like these threats very much, because then Parliament looks like it, if it is still blocked. With all due respect. I was looking forward to today's opposition window and you cannot say that I have always voted the way it is waving. But among other things, I was looking forward to point 108 - a state holiday that no doubt Eliška Přemyslovna deserves. An important day, actually. But when the current government majority is being attacked here and no one in the government will respond, I would just like to tell some speakers through you: When you argue here as opposed to each other, with all due respect, we sit here patiently and wait for the next point to come. The dispute between the right and the left is eternal. But I think that instead of threatening and further speaking, we can just decide it by voting. Guys, I'm begging you because the opposition has waited a year for their opposition window, let's stop stalling each other. So we are not doing this to you with all due respect, and we will wait for you to agree, and then we will try to vote with you. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u35	Thank you. I note three further factual points, the first being President Kalousek, followed by President Stanjura and Mr Gabal after him. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u36	Thank you. With all due respect and friendship, I would like to ask Mr Koskuba not to convince the public and us that perhaps the KSČM club is a opposition to the current government. This is a solid rock upon which the present government has exposed its power, and the gates of Hell will not overcome the rock. The Bolshevik is holding you wherever you go. There's just no opposition. And I think that's what all voters see today. It is simply not a coalition YES, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL, it is a communist coalition KSČM and also ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL. That's just the way it is. And I think it would be unfair if we kept it from the public. The second thing is that, through the President, Mr colleague, you spoke of threats as to tomorrow's day. I didn't threaten you. I promised. And I keep my promises.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u37	Thank you. Now, then, President Stanjura, Mr Gabal will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u38	First, in fact, to speak with Vice-President Filip. We're talking about the real estate tax, he was eager to talk about the real estate tax. We'll come up with that another time. We don't have that today. So that's not what we're talking about today, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about. And I must agree with my colleague, Mr Koskuba. I was looking forward to an opinional confrontation with the government, too. Well, it's just not happening. The Government does not consider it necessary to defend its observations on the parliamentary proposals here. I'm bohužel so. And I said I wouldn't bother the absent minister of culture, who noticed in time that he already had a colleague here, and left in time because it really isn't his resort. And he was the only one sitting here so we could act. So it's not our fault that there's no conflict with the government when the government isn't sitting here and there's only the Minister of Culture on economic bills up until now, and now Mr. Vice Prime Minister for Science, Research and other godly things. So I criticize the absent ones, I don't criticize the present ones. That's just the truth. And that's usually the way it is, it's like the criticism's coming down on those present. But they do their duty to the Chamber of Deputies. Come on, I'm sorry, I think we're gonna get to point 108, except, unfortunately, the government's position, which we don't know who did it, we really don't know. Did the money make it? MPO, Dienstbier? I really don't know, so there's no one to argue with. And the fact that, for example, you voted together as your clubs on that first point today is simply true. We have long argued that the KSČM club is satisfied with this government, for that is what the chairman of their MP said today on a microphone. Well, we want to keep the government's programming statement - he's supposed to say opposition politicians. It's okay. [[Attention on time.]] I ended up positive - that's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u39	Well, have a good evening. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Gabal, followed by Mr Antonín Seďa, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm gonna do a little historical sigh. From the point of view of real estate taxation and its owners, this really is not a real issue. After 25 years, when the properties got a little swamped, and the owners of the housing houses and all that, I understand that from this side, it would be a good idea to tax it. If you remember who was being punished by the restitution of residential homes that lived for 40 years and who had to invest those debts, it was the people you want to tax now. But the biggest opponent of restitution and settlement of historical injustices was, of course, the right-wing politician Václav Klaus. He gave the greatest resistance to restitution, and he also maintained the longest rent regulation, which was taken over by a Křeček after him. Křeček a long time, hamsters have been making housing owners subsidize the state of regulated rents. So now these people need to be taxed for it when they spent 25 years on the fact that today the houses are as well back together and the cities look a little better. I think they need to be taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u41	I thank Mr Gabal. After that, with another factual remark, Mr Antonín Seďa and then there are Mr Kováčik, Mr Kalousek and Mr Laudát with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to stand up for my colleague Koskuba through you. He really meant it because he wondered why the right-wing opposition was obstructing its own laws. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u43	Thank you, Mr Seďa. With another factual remark, Mr Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u44	Thank you for the floor. I'm just trying to do it, or at least try to put an end to those remarks about fulfilling a government statement. Ever since I at least remember, and I remember, the KSČM club has always voted in a matter of fact, about content, not about who's presenting. It has already been said here today - it is not about who is presenting what, but what is being presented. And let me tell you, or maybe I'll just remind you of the sweet secret that we used to vote if we thought it was reasonable and were in line with our programme, and also for proposals from the ODS and for proposals from the TOP 09. Not only for government proposals, then. I think if we all behave this way in this House, we don't have hundreds and hundreds of unnegotiated points ahead of us, but we're looking for an empty program with things discussed. But sometimes here, very often so, votes on who is putting forward, and at any cost, we must, we know this, promise: the government prepares better, more sophisticated and more material, and opposition proposals are thrown behind its head regardless of whether they are from the right or from the left. If we really were to discuss material nature, we would be far further away. That's how we behave and continue to behave. Thank you. . [[Applause by Members of the KSČM]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u45	Thank you to President Kováčik. Now with a point of fact, President Miroslav Kalousek, followed by Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u46	Thank you for your word. I would politely like to reply to Mr Gabal's contribution. Indeed, in some cases, where, in particular, public funds in terms of infrastructure and environment significantly increased the value of private real estate, the higher real estate tax rate would be worth considering. But I would like to warn him, through Mr President, that this can be done under existing legislation. That each municipality has the right to set a coefficient of 1 to 5 by its generally binding decree on existing real estate tax. Out of the 6 248 municipalities, about 42, the vast majority of which are the municipalities that have the ČEZ power plant in their cadastral, which they will collect, and in some way return it to their citizens. The brave ones who really collect the real estate tax to improve the infrastructure are about 7 or 8. There aren't any more of those 6 248. And when I had discussions with the mayors in ancient times as Finance Minister, the mayors - now I speak with the words of one of them, but basically everyone felt that way: you can't give us a choice of coefficients. Because we mayors are politicians, and if we increase the real estate tax, no one will vote for us. That is for you in Parliament to decide. The loser told me - he was the Mayor of Prostějov at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u47	Thank you to President Kalousek. With another factual remark, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u48	Thank you. I'll just briefly respond to Mr. Gabal. Whether it is, then simply during the Václav Klaus era in this, although I also heard that he was not too willing to establish a large framework for restitution of property, then we were the only ones in the whole of Central Europe or perhaps in the post-socialist countries who performed such extensive restitution, and thank God for that, because at least 20 years later he postponed the oligarchisation of our society and the greed of the property of a few individuals. First of all. Second, about the regulated rent. Well, that's when your mom drives you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u49	I thank Mr Laudát, that was the last point in fact so far. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, it has finally reached me, but I would not like to hold back the opposition, so that it can also discuss its own laws, which it is now holding back, the negotiations, with constant technical comments. I propose rejecting this bill. I understand that the rapporteur and, after all, Mr Kováčik also proposed this. Perhaps it is interesting to look into the past, how this tax was incurred and how it was done. It is indeed a traditional tax, which was essentially established in our tax system in 1993, at the time it was five percent, i.e. the taxation was five percent. Even quite so smiling is it when today the opposition talks mainly by the mouth of the ODS about how immoral the tax is, how harmful it is, how double taxation is, how it affects young families with children, etc. When, under the reign of Nečas and Topolánek and Minister Kalousek, who did not comment on this, there was an increase in 2013 from three percent to four percent, then you probably did not consider it immoral when you raised one percentage point. Moreover, former Minister Kalousek pushed for the taxpayer to be the acquirer. So tonight, talk and say here how bad young families and children are going to be when they want to get a place to live... Yes, if it's the acquirer, then, of course, as the acquirer, it will pay the tax. But it's also a bit of a need to touch your conscience and see how it really was with the tax. Tax is paid everywhere, or in most states of the European Union, in some countries it is much bigger than in our country, we are so somewhere in the middle, I would say. I will not be calling here for progress, although, of course, progress would probably also be possible, and I think that in some countries of the European Union it is also progressive taxation for this tax. So, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, I propose that this material be rejected for a number of reasons. I am not going to read here what the rapporteur has basically presented here from the Ministry of Finance's opinion, virtually. from the Government's position, which Minister Herman has already interpreted here. I think that the reasons that are listed there are absolutely relevant not only because it means nine billion to the state budget. It's nine billion is nine billion. And you always fit something in the store. Sometimes it's true and sometimes it's different. Sometimes the nine billion is a lot, sometimes it's not enough. Just the way you need it, so you're moving on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u51	I thank Mr Votav. With a point of fact, now President Kalousek, after whom President Stanjura. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u52	I'm very sorry, just for a very short time. The argument made by President Votava was exactly that out of context, as the Minister of Finance Babiš, in particular, argues, but he seems to have good pupils in social democracy. Yes, indeed, it happened that the real estate transfer tax increased from three to four percent under the tax measure package, where at the end it was minus 40. The taxpayers were relieved by $40 billion, something went up, something went down, and in the finals it was a tax reduction, but this parameter increased a little bit. President Votava comes in, takes out this parameter and says, "Here you have raised taxes" so that the next day he will say, "Here you have cut the revenue of the state budget and caused a crisis." It's exactly the same as when Minister Babiš says how we raised the taxes. We have asked the Czech public for a three-year transitional period, when we will all fold into the consolidation of public budgets, which the Social Democrat Prime Ministers had previously broken, with the fact that just as far as date 1. 1. 2015 taxes will go down again. You've come, you've done nothing but cancel the transitional period, and you've already left the tax rates upstairs. You've raised taxes more than any other government before you. And now you're saying, "We're cutting kids down, and there's those and these and they've increased the real estate transfer tax from three to four." If you're talking in total numbers, you're betting people $100 billion a year for nothing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u53	Thank you to President Kalousek. With another factual remark, President Stanjura. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u54	I would just like to remind the President of the Committee on Budgets, but he knows that, through the Vice-President, as was the state budget proposal for 2016. At the beginning of the holidays, the government, the Treasury, at some point announced that the deficit would be 70 billion, there would be some revenue and there would be some expenditure. After that, a regular summer competition or show took place, where individual ministers took turns on the clock at the Ministry of Finance to announce the government coalition at the end of the holidays that the deficit would still be 70 billion, but additional revenues would be 17 billion. Seventeen, not nine. That was in those two months of visits to the Ministry of Finance. To find out some 14 days ago after the coalition council meeting that you found another 5 billion. So on the one hand, you're saying that 9 billion will break up the state budget, and you've conjured up 22 billion revenue from 1 July to today, and of course 22 billion spending on it. So if 22 wasn't a problem and you found them in three months, you'll find the 9 billion, too. I'm sure you're quite confident when you've dealt with such a high amount of $22 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u55	Thank you to President Stanjur, it was the last one entered into the debate at the moment. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. Since Mr Kováčik, Mr Votava and Mr Klaška both submitted a motion for rejection, we will be voting. Sorry. One final word, I'm sorry. So, please, the plaintiff's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to write down the arguments that have been raised against our proposal, but no matter how I look at my remarks, I have not actually heard any arguments, real arguments. I have heard some ideological objections from Members of the KSČM, I understand that, I take it that, unlike other people, I think politics is supposed to be a right-wing ideal conflict, that it is so right, I understand that, but I have waited, even because I myself am not an economist, that I will learn from the government, a government coalition, what is wrong with our proposal, what does not fit the figures, why the tax is so important. But really, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't see anything like this coming. [[18.20 hours]] And I have to repeat what some of my colleagues here have said. I am not only sorry, but I also find it offensive in my own way that, at the moment when the opposition presents such essential things as the abolition of certain taxes, there is almost no one here from the government. I apologize now to Mr. Vice Prime Minister, who in the meantime came, virtually. It looks like the government is only a KDU-ČSL and no one else. [[Present min. Herman and the men. Blobrádek. - Fun and applause.]] Which, of course, speaks in favor of KDU-ČSL, but it certainly does not speak in favour of the government itself. And when I talk about an ideal conflict and a right-wing conflict, I just remind myself that, of course, there is no conflict between those who defend the poor and who defend the rich and similar ideological clichés, but it is a clash between those who want more freedom, more responsibility, who trust people more, those who want to control people, take their money, decide about them, raise them, and lead them somewhere. And we as the right, and it is very easy for me, because I have never voted for any increase, although I understand it, because, for example, in a time of economic crisis, taxes are treated simply differently than when the economy is going well, so I have no problems presenting proposals for ODS here that not only reduce taxes, but because our idea is that the state should be effective, functional, small and does not take people's money where it is not necessary, so we are also looking for proposals to eliminate some taxes. This is an unnecessary tax. Eliminating it will help a lot of people. And don't be mad at me, I haven't heard a single argument that's wrong with our consideration, why the tax should stay and why you wouldn't support this sensible proposal, with the exception of the KSČM Members and the left wing of social democracy. And if I were a member of a government coalition who claims to be publicly or in the galleys, as he thinks right-wing, I would think about why, in most cases, they vote the way KSČM Members vote. I'm sure I'd consider that. Since the facts, ladies and gentlemen of the government benches through Mr President, show that in the vast majority of cases, as a whole, you vote left-wing as a government coalition with the KSČM. That's just the way it is, and out of this state, you just don't talk yourself out of this fact, because the reality shows it. However, I believe that many monologues, unfortunately monologues from the right, could at least convince some of you, and the absence of arguments from the left could at least convince some of you that our proposal is reasonable and that it would be good to support it. Respectfully not good to support him, but at least let him in the next reading so that we can finally discuss him in a matter of fact, even in the presence of one of the ministers who has it in their minds, and we could have a substantive debate that unfortunately was not possible here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u57	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. With the final word, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would split my final report a little bit in two. I would like to comment on the two arguments raised against my intelligence report and then on the popular statistics. There's been a non-systemic objection to the Margo of my intelligence report here, so let me explain. I really thought that when I was preparing for this House press, I did not find any analysis, no more detailed analyses, nothing that could be relied on as being non-systemic. Just cancel this tax and basta fidli. Nota bene has fallen, hasn't it? The state budget will be weakened by 9 billion. And let the Treasury or you find it somewhere! So I think that a more systemic reason would be for it to cheat on a network of tax systems, and so on. It doesn't matter that it also has a relationship abroad, an event. the compensatory measures to the State budget. Then there was something going on here in the debate, and I'll just comment on that. In addition to economic growth. Yes, if there is economic growth, some taxes may have to be reduced, but let us be aware that economic growth may not and will not last forever. I would very much like it to last the mythical seven years of the Bible, but when I look for, say, an international political situation, I see a number of risks why it may not take so long. And now for the favorite statistics. There were 11 speakers in the debate, seven of them opposition. They've performed over and over again. The director is a colleague of Stanjura with 6 performances, three times over time. And there were also four coalition speakers, always once. It has been said three times in total, as Mr President said, a motion to reject this law - from fellow Votava, Kováčik and also from my intelligence report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u59	I thank the rapporteur for the final speech and his statistics, which apparently President Stanjura wants to overcome. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u60	Well, I don't count it, but that's a guess. The ministers spoke for 70 seconds in total, with 70 seconds reading the written material that we have about six months ago - to tell ourselves what was said when the austerity of the government coalition is being praised. And we'll show you the savings at the first reading of the state budget. Without a doubt, it will be higher than 9 billion. But even if, Mr rapporteur, through the Vice-President. I don't know what you want more! I mean, that's pretty obvious. When you say the two numbers, and no one contradicts them, the state will choose more than 800 billion. Every year, and when I cancel the tax that employs 800 people, 140,000 taxpayers are harassed annually and collected around 1%. Do you know how many VAT officials would have to be? Take a guess. About $30,000 or $25,000 to be equivalent only in numbers - the money collected divided by the number of officials. So what's the systemic rate you're talking about here? I'm sorry, that wasn't the last word of the rapporteur, that was a political speech. Why not? But since it's like this - favorite statistics, for me it's not popular, for some newsletters yes, that they make commas, how many times who has spoken - so don't forget to say that there was one minister, then there was another minister, respectively. another member of the government, because the Vice Prime Minister always says he's not a minister, and now there are two ministers. And in fact, they've been reading us for 70 seconds the material we already have. That's the kind of debate we've been calling for. That's what Chairman Fiala was talking about. That's the arrogance of the government that doesn't even bother to justify its rejection! That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister. With priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u62	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to supplement my intelligence report. Yes, two members of the government were present, one for the entire duration of this press, the other for part of this press. And I would also like to say, it's a škoda I didn't read it exactly in the reason message, what you've been saying. Too bad! The reason report is very brief. The public can easily read it on our website www.psp.cz. It's under print number 426/1, and your message is really one-page. Not really. There are indeed several sentences: this law is abolished, period. If we could read what it all meant or that you'd ever make more savings, please, I'd deal with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u63	Thank you to the rapporteur. That concludes the final words and we will vote. As has been said here, Mr Kováčik, Mr Votava and Mr Klaška both proposed to reject the proposal. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards and we will vote on the motion to reject the proposed bill. [[18.30 hours]] Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejecting the bill, raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote No. 158, 136 Members are registered, for 88, against 38. The motion was accepted. I note that the bill has been rejected. President Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u64	I fully respect the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. I am just looking once again at Mr Votava to see what the opposition really looks like from the left. Again, I say this is the solid rock on which your government stands, the Bolshevik club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u65	The next item is paragraph 108. Sorry. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u66	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to follow up on the words of President Fiala. Just like he said, it looks like it's just the People's Government, so I just want to say, I wish. And the other thing. They weren't all sitting here, and as you know, some of them were sitting in the foyer, I'm sure they listened carefully. And our position is that you have to convince us to vote. So I believe the arguments have been made here. It's just a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-29-ps2013-031-05-003-105.u67	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. The next item is:
