ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 585/2004 Sb., on defence obligations and its provision (defense law), as amended, and other related laws /house print 455/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický will state the draft bill. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their helpfulness and understanding and for the priority assignment. I think this is quite an important message to our citizens, no matter what political group a person is in. I would like to point out that between the first reading and today's meeting, on the basis of your suggestions and comments, we have carried out a number of negotiations and consultations, particularly with the members of the Defence Committee naturally. Thanks to them, we have been able to clarify some of the issues of the proposed amendment. This effort resulted in the processing of a common comprehensive amendment, which was subsequently adopted by the resolution of the Defence Committee on 15 October 2015. I would like to thank the members of the Defence Committee who have been extremely devoted to the bill and have contributed to the overall improvement of the proposed regulation. I consider it essential to change the concept of the draft amendment to the law to be a major change, in other words, to abandon the concept of mandatory contributions in peace, which means that the exercise of the conscription at a time of peace rests on the principle of voluntaryity, which, of course, will concern both men and women. These amendments are also important for the proposed legislation. The proposal has been simplified, the terminology has been clarified and its systematics have been clarified. The law also removed the long-term ambiguous concept of compulsory advance. The structure of the military exercises has been made clear by the active backup practicing in the form of regular military exercises, while the citizen who voluntarily takes over the military duties is preparing to carry out the tasks of the armed forces in the form of voluntary military exercises. It is also proposed to modify the possibility of calling a soldier in reserve to perform the service in operational deployment in the Czech Republic for a total length of up to 30 days in the calendar year. This profession, however, requires the approval of a soldier. In view of the time we are meeting and in the light of the further legislative process, it is proposed that the effectiveness of 1 January 2016 be changed to 1 July 2016. So much in the greatest possible briefness of the introduction, and I will now allow myself to give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Klučka, whom I also thank very much for working on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u3	Excuse me, Minister, if you would be so kind as to leave it to me. Thanks. [[With a smile.]] We ordered the motion for a resolution at first reading to be discussed by the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 455/1. I therefore ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Defence, Mr Václav Klučka, to inform us of the committee proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It's second reading, colleagues, colleagues. I will not tire you of the overall detailed account of the debate that was on the Defence Committee. It was a very rational debate, leading to the fact that, as all political representatives, we were able to reach a comprehensive amendment, which is part of the resolution of the Defence Committee of the 23rd meeting of 15 October 2015. [[18.20 hours]] The Government's Bill amending Act No. 585/2004 Sb., on defence obligations and its provision, as amended, and other related laws, House Press 455. [[Defense Act]] The Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the bill as amended by the comprehensive amendment contained in the press 455/1. At the same time, he instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and asks the Chair of the Committee to present the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I will speak in a detailed debate to draw attention to this amendment and include it in the third reading system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mrs Jana Černochová joined first. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that after more than half a year of re-submitting these three very important standards, we are getting to second reading today. Thank you again for supporting the proposal. Although we can no longer catch up on the delay caused by the withdrawal of these laws from the House at the beginning of the parliamentary term, the sooner we have this legislation adopted, the better, because it is indeed a very necessary and essential condition for the further development of the military and the strengthening of our country's defence. I considered a year's delay in lawmaking and I consider it unnecessary, but, well, it has happened. However, it certainly was not unnecessary or counterproductive to extend the deadline for discussing these laws in committees, you remember that in the summer. These past months, as the Minister of Defence said here, were, on the contrary, very productive, which is confirmed not only by the Minister, but by all colleagues from the Defence Committee, when we met in the summer months and spent a number of hours over the proposals, we discussed concrete measures, paragraphs and we managed to actually solve a number of shortcomings and errors in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence. I am very happy for this approach and I am also very pleased that, throughout the negotiations, individual changes have been made, whose expression is the resulting comprehensive amendments to the defence law, as well as to the Act on the service of soldiers in reserve, this is another law which we will discuss, that we have managed to synchronize these changes, because one law really follows on to the other and sometimes the orientation when one word changes and then the word must be translated into the second law - it was very difficult. So I also thank all the legislators who participated in respecting the rule of respect for the interrelationship of these legislative standards. I support the comprehensive amendment, as both the rapporteur and the Minister have said about it. It is certainly a good thing that we finally managed to convince the petitioner of the bill, which was the government through the Ministry of Defence, to change the most discussed question. The question was the introduction of so-called mandatory, unfortunately, paper contributions, which, as I am sure you know, have been perceived and criticised from the outset as unnecessary, pointless and unproductive. Although the contributions in a certain form should remain and remain in the bill, they will now be based on a voluntary basis, and even though I personally do not consider it entirely happy, I have accepted it. I don't think it's happy, because I'd rather we focus fully on the professional army and the active backup. On the other hand, I see the voluntary involvement of citizens as some kind of gesture, something that can symbolize their will to stand up for my country, and therefore I did not criticize the volunteer, which was not about the paper contributions, but it is actually a new institute of new forms of backup. As rapporteur for the Reserve Service Act, which we will discuss here subsequently, and as a supporter of the conquest and development of a functional active backup, which will be a truly reliable and well-prepared component to complement the professional army, I took part in the debate, particularly in matters relating to soldiers in active reserve, in the context of the defence law. My aim was, in particular, to make both of these laws really motivational, if you want, I can use the word recruitment. Because, indeed, both our army and our active backups are faced with a massive shortage of people. It's not just about the law. It is also about the fact that the health decree that began to apply a few years ago is actually still very strict. There's no way I'm saying that we'd like to have someone in the elite units, in some special units, who's not feeling very well, I'm not saying that. On the other hand, within logistics, people who have glasses or flat feet can also move, unfortunately, into the current version of the decree that was in force, it was not possible for these people to go through hard driving with doctors. Here I am very happy and thank you for the fact that the Minister succeeded in convincing doctors who had a problem with this in the past and fought for it to continue to be only grade A and there were no other options and variants. If I go back to the Act of Defense and the Act of Active Advances, I would point out that, in the context of a detailed debate, I will still apply to two amendments. Not because they didn't sound on the defense committee, we discussed them on the defense committee, but the moment we discussed them, it didn't exactly come out of the Ministry of Defence's department, if it's possible to accept the proposal and it doesn't cause any problem. Now we know that this will not cause any problem, but it will help in the very recruitment and motivation of people who may be facing a decision today whether to embark on a journey of either a professional soldier or a soldier in active reserve. My proposals concern both the settlement of conditions for the service of professional soldiers and soldiers in reserve, because it seems fair to me to compare conditions in the field of health care. As a result, soldiers in active reserve who voluntarily opt for insurance at the Military Health Insurance Company would be entitled, during their inclusion, to reimbursement of so-called supplements and preventive care by the Ministry of Defence. The difference would remain only in the fact that while professional soldiers have an obligation to insure themselves with the Military Health Insurance Company, soldiers in an active reserve would not have an obligation but could apply voluntarily to this insurance company. A number of reasons for this change led me. I'll name the most important ones. In contrast to other health insurance companies, the military health insurance company, as a result of its specific nature, also protects classified information under special legislation concerning their clients, which, especially today, can be an up-to-date topic. The second argument I'm making here is that it's certainly in the interests of the Army and the Ministry of Defence, so that the health status of the active backups is as good as possible. And where could it be better than being under the scrutiny of military doctors? [[18.30 hours]] Last but not least, I would like to point out that this measure was and is still part of the concept of an active backup, which was the starting document for the legislation we are discussing here today and which was adopted by the Government of the Czech Republic so that it applies from 1. 1. 2013, so I do not actually propose anything in this concept approved by the Government of the Czech Republic. My second amendment concerns the reimbursement of travel refunds. I propose that reserve soldiers who, for example, need to be transported from one place to another for military training should be reimbursed for travel refunds even if they use a private motor vehicle for this journey, up to a maximum of the amount corresponding to the cost of carriage by mass. This is happening in all decent businesses, and I think the military should also be a decent business where this will be recognised. The Minister knows that I mentioned this already on the Defence Committee, and unfortunately I was there to assure one of the legislation that the current legislation is thinking about it. Unfortunately, he doesn't. I consulted several lawyers, and I have to propose a change here, and it is not in this comprehensive amendment. But it's never too late. So according to the proposed regulation and current practice it was not possible and I think it is good that these conditions should be levelled and that some flexibility be allowed, which will not lead to any higher costs at the same time. Mr. Minister, neither of these proposals of mine represents any exorbitant extra cost to the Ministry of Defence. I believe that these are indeed other small benefits that can help to make the reserve service pay off to the Czech Republic so that we can be able to recruit young women and men. I will therefore ask you to support these proposals at third reading and thank you so far for your attention, with my commitment to the amendments in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u7	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I am asking about the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur. [[They're not interested.]] Thank you. I don't see a motion to renegotiate the law of the guarantee committee. I am therefore opening a detailed debate, in which Mrs Jana Černochová also joined first. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I said a little while ago, my amendments are two. One is in the system under number 3208, the other is in the system under my name under number 3209. You will also find more detailed reasons in these documents, which I have already presented to you in the general debate, so I will not hold back from repeating what I said a moment ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u9	Good evening. Thank you, Mrs. Černochová. Now in a detailed debate, Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, I am signing up for House Document No. 3034. These are written amendments to the press 455 and the justification is given in this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u11	Thank you, Mr Seďa. In a detailed debate, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will repeat what I have already said in the general debate. It is a comprehensive amendment adopted by the Committee on Security, and it is in Parliament's press 455/1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u13	Thank you. Who's next for a detailed debate? Please. Mr Ludvík Hovorka in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to ask you, I would like to propose another amendment concerning Section 3. It's a certain return to what was in the original bill. In this section 3 in paragraph. 1 is said in the section Voluntary take-over of the conscription: "Citizen who, pursuant to § 7, has lost the gate obligation, or a foreigner may voluntarily assume the gate obligation on the day following the date on which he reaches the age of 18, but no later than the date of his 60 years of age, following a written request made to the competent regional military headquarters. A citizen or a foreigner shall indicate in the application, in addition to the general requirements of submission under the Administrative Code, the birth number or date of birth, unless the birth number has been assigned to him.' I would like to propose a change in Section 3 in order that the word "alien" should be replaced by the words "a citizen of a state associated with the defence systems of international organizations whose Czech Republic is a member" because I believe that there should not be any foreigner, but only a person who is a member of some organizations to which the Czech Republic is a member. So this is in all the paragraphs, in all the paragraphs, where only a foreigner is mentioned, so replace the word "alien" here by this phrase, the words "citizen of the state combined in defence systems of international organizations whose Czech Republic is a member." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-24-ps2013-036-01-003-008.u15	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. It's not like that. I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Rapporteur? Mr. Secretary? It's not like that. There was no proposal that we could discuss, and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. We will continue with the point
