ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u1	38. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with proof of the origin of property /house print 504/ - first reading We dealt with this House press on 19 June this year at the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted it in the general debate. I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur for first reading, Mr Václav Votava, take the position at the rapporteur's table. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in a performance. It's not like that. The rapporteur does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I will not be a rapporteur, but a Member. Not directly the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u3	No, the debate is open and has priority rights as rapporteur. [[Other comments.]] Yes, that's right, so, Mr. Ambassador, then you'll have to sign up in order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u4	I thank my colleagues for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u5	I will now ask Mr. Seďa for a microphone. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u6	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, the reason for the proposed law is to enable the tax administrator to have effective instruments to demonstrate the existence of income and property which does not correspond to the revenue shown in the tax return. At the same time, the law regulates new institutes that enable effective detection of classified or non-taxed income. Although we have been waiting for the law for many years, and I myself support this law, I have several reservations that I want you to meet. In particular, I believe that it is a mistake that the bill merely respects the standard time limit for determining tax under the tax system, which is three years, up to a maximum of ten years. That is to say, it will not be possible to fix the tax for a tax period for which the time limit for determining the tax has expired. Here, I agree with President Miloš Zeman's view, who pointed out that the law should also go back to the past, because property is a cumulative variable and it is necessary to take into account as much time as possible. The second condition is the penalty rates. It would be appropriate to increase these rates. I have more than one reminder, but these two are basic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u7	Thank you. Mr Karamazov, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another bill in front of us from the workshop of those we might collectively call bullying. To a large number of existing instruments, how to secure and set a tax, is the new proposal to introduce so-called. a call for proof of income. If the tax administrator has doubts that the taxpayer's income does not correspond to the increase in its assets or consumption, and concludes that this difference is more than seven million, he will invite the taxpayer to demonstrate the formation and origin of its income. Otherwise, he is at risk of taxing according to aids and subsequent periodic penalty payments. It is clear from this very basic information that a call for proof of income can mean serious interference with taxpayers' activities. On the other hand, there is no liability of the tax administrator for the use of this instrument. With a little exaggeration whenever the tax administrator decides that an entrepreneur named XY has built a new house, although the tax administrator says he should buy a smaller apartment, he invites him to prove what he bought this house for. If the tax administrator does not find any discrepancy, nothing will happen. He will continue to make his calls cheerfully, but no one will replace the entrepreneurs of XY. Spend time that instead of annoying requests could spend developing his business. The obligation to submit a call for proof of its income may not only lead to more or less reasonable doubts, but also the reasons for a completely different one. Just remember the case of a businessman who recently disagreed with the introduction of electronic sales records on the evening programme Czech Television. She couldn't even wake up this morning, and she was already in control at the store. It is rather sad to see how quickly the state apparatus can act repressively and slowly in everything when, exceptionally, the citizen of the state asks for something. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill presented represents one of the other many whips that it already has on taxpayers today. Let us not pretend that the State does not have the means to ensure fair tax evasion. Only by example is it necessary to mention the legislation on tax offences and their subsequent authorisation under the Code of Criminal Procedure, to set a time limit for the determination of tax or many other forms of different notifications and declarations contained in tax legislation. For this reason, it is unacceptable for me to continue to extend the ingers of the state to this area in any way. Rather, we should focus on encouraging citizens to carry out their duties properly in our tax system. Not in the form of unnecessary repression. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u9	Thank you and please next in line. That is Mr Votava, then Mr Plíšek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I will not talk about what I have already mentioned in my report. I would just like to stress that yes, this is one of the most important laws of the government coalition and, together with the upcoming e-booking act, it also forms one of the major pillars of the government's programming declaration. Of course, social democracy is also a priority. And I certainly don't think it should be any law of bullying, as some colleagues - my previous speaker - are constantly stressing here. Perhaps it is good to look a little into the history of legislative attempts to introduce property returns in the Czech Republic. It's certainly a long and certainly very informative journey. For example, few people today remember that the system of admission has been codified in the past in our legal order, although it was an amendment to the 1992 Tax Administration and Charges Act, with an obligation to file a return on property over 1 million. CZK, first with effect from 1. 1. 1993, then it gradually moved back to 1995, so that this obligation would eventually be abolished by Klausův' government in 1994. These were also proposals of the minority government of social democracy from 1999 and 2001. However, both of these proposals were rejected by the Chamber of Deputies. In practical terms, they were built so that the first property return would form a basis against which the gains of taxpayers' assets in the years to come will be measured. It was also a proposal for social democracy from 2003, submitted by the Ministry of Finance in a commentary procedure. According to him, on the basis of property returns, the legality of the acquisition of the entire property was to be demonstrated, even with an extension of ten years before the entry into force of this law. However, he found no understanding of the coalition partners KDU-ČSL and the then Union of Freedom - the DEU and was eventually abandoned. I could therefore continue to do so, with other parliamentary proposals. I know that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia also did some experiments in this. The draft law, which is presented by the current government, differs significantly from the previous proposals. It is not a surface solution, but it was chosen from two approaches. For one thing, a court order was considered and then a tax route. Finally, the Ministry of Finance decided to take the second route, which means the so-called tax route. This means that instead of confiscating property, which would come either directly or indirectly from illegal and therefore also tax-free income, the law counts on taxing these unproven income, including certain penalties. This does not mean that all taxpayers will be obliged to prove their income, I have already recalled that this is not a property return, but only those for whom the tax administrator will find a significant difference between their assets and what they have shown in their tax returns and if this difference is greater than 7 million. Kč. There's been a compromise here. We proposed, now I speak for social democracy, so that the border should be 5 miles. CZK, the Ministry of Finance proposed 10 million. Kč. So we agreed in the end that it would be 7 miles. Kč. It is, of course, a question for discussion. If the taxpayer is unable to demonstrate his income from which he has acquired his property, then the penalty will be calculated at a rate of 50 per cent of the tax, but can reach up to 70 per cent of the tax, if the taxpayer does not cooperate with the financial administration. Of course, any criminal penalties are not affected. It is also proposed to increase the upper limit of the penalty rate for the offence of breach of the obligation to make a true declaration of property from one year to the summer of three. I would like to point out and point out some things in the context of this legislation. They will certainly need to be discussed and maybe clarified and even adjusted. This, of course, is not only the task of the committee to which it will be ordered, but also in the House, it will be possible to discuss this further. In my view, the aspect of the position must be significantly strengthened and I also want to emphasise the remuneration. The expertise and moral quality of the tax administrator must be strengthened. That is not to say that there are immoral people, but it will still require that the quality of the tax administrator be highlighted in this, too. It is not possible to rule out all kinds of attacks and seductions of the taxpayers concerned. This is a rather demanding mechanism for proving the origin of property both to the taxpayer who bears the burden of proof and to the tax administrator, and therefore it will certainly be necessary for this process to be defined, described and regulated to the maximum extent possible. We may still agree on some further adjustments that this law or legislation would require. It is about eliminating the subjective influence in the assessment and decision-making of the tax administrator as far as possible in the process. This approach will certainly place claims on financial management, especially in the field of search activities aimed at property owners, while they are not in many cases and have never been taxpayers of income tax. I would also like to draw attention to that. The proposed purpose of the bill is to assess the correctness of the tax return on income, but I consider it necessary to clarify, document and clarify the overlaps of this law to other tax headings, such as value added tax, to social and health insurance, which will certainly also concern it. You can see that there are a number of questions. I am, of course, in favour of this proposal. I'm sure you do. But I think that we can still discuss some things, although I can see that the opposition may not be interested in supporting this proposal. However, I think it is our willingness to continue discussing this. I must also reject the fact that it will be examined by the state, as the opponents often argue, everyone, and that therefore everyone is turned into a dirty fraud, everyone will be viewed as some sort of vulgar suspect. I think that's total nonsense. I have to say no to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask for the microphone next in order, and that is Mr. Plíšek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u12	Madam President, my dear colleagues, thank you for giving me the floor. Let me also comment on the bill submitted, respectively. to amendments to individual laws, which I would call inefficient, unnecessary at the outset. The government coalition here is just trying to execute some sort of electoral decoy for voters. What is serious is this proposal from both a legislative and a formal point of view shows major shortcomings for which, in my view, it is not eligible to continue to be discussed. I would refer here directly to the opinion of the Legislative Council of this government. This proposal states that, in addition to the additional assessment of the tax, a penalty payment of 50 per cent may be granted to the taxpayer or, if no cooperation is provided with the Financial Authority, a penalty payment of up to 100 per cent. [[13.20 hours]] This provision is contrary to the relevant finding of the Constitutional Court, which spoke of the inadmissibility of winding-up sanctions, and the Legislative Council of that Government stated that the increase in penalty payments from 50 to 100 per cent is constitutionally unconstitutional if you want to be unconstitutional. That is why the Government's Legislative Council has proposed to the petitioner that only 50 per cent can be sanctioned. This means, as I said before, the Legislative Council of the Government considers this provision of the law to be unconstitutional. In her view, it is unconstitutional to force a taxpayer to cooperate in order to impose sanctions of 100 per cent. Therefore, it is not possible to force the taxpayer to cooperate. The opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government is based on the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which, in its decisions, called the institute a periodic penalty payment, which can only be regarded as an accusation within the meaning of Article 6 (1) of the Treaty. 1 The Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms also refers to the relevant judgments and findings of the European Court of Human Rights. I, ladies and gentlemen, do not understand this, and in the history of executives I do not remember that the government, after its Legislative Council of the Government states that part of the law is unconstitutional, approved this law in peace and sent it to the Chamber of Deputies for discussion. I agree with the Government's Legislative Council's position in this regard, and I would also like to report that if the government coalition manages to approve this proposal, then TOP 09 will turn to the Constitutional Court in order to submit the relevant paragraph, which sets the penalty for determining the tax on aids in a special way, to submit a constitutionality test with a proposal to abolish it, or to repeal the entire law, because the design of this law and its sanctions are built on this paragraph, among other things. When I take the next provision of this law at random, I am referring to the burden of proof, it is transferred from one hundred percent to the taxpayer. This means turning the principle that the State must prove to someone that it has committed an infringement and turning in the direction that someone must prove that it has not committed an infringement. The time limits by which the Financial Authority will be able to intervene and go back - three to ten years. Taking this into account from the archival time limits for archiving accounting documents, and taking into account the fact that persons who do not engage, that is, non-business persons, have no obligation to keep accounting documents in the long term, then I would like to know on the basis of which the financial office or the financial administration will proceed with those who do not do business. The law, which is formally flawed, I have already called it a legislative scumbag in the past, works with various concepts, which, however, do not define in the law such as: the financial administration estimates the amount of property or the amount of property. The concept of fortune, by the way, does not know the Income Tax Act at all, so it is possible to refer to the concept of civil code. But even the Civil Code doesn't refer to a set of disparate novels at all. By the way, as I mentioned at the outset, it is said that it is a law on the proof of the origin of property, so it is only a real political, shorthanded designation, it is a set of amendments to existing laws and it has to be said that there is no new law, only imperfectly and in some respects unconstitutionally changes existing laws. So transferring the burden of proof from one hundred percent to the taxpayer is another issue and forcing citizens not to provide synergies and providing their accounting documents within three to ten years, in my view, is also completely unacceptable. Furthermore, the Government's Legislative Council notes that, as I quoted a moment ago on the amount of a 100% penalty payment, that is not all, so the Government Legislative Council states that it is very unsystemic that this law increases the criminal rate for an offence of false information in the property declaration for three years. The Government's Legislative Council considers this to be inefficient and inconsistent and too harsh. The idea that someone for formal reasons will make a mistake in the declaration of property and on this basis will be subject to a penalty rate of up to three years, so that is an unreasonable and very special provision proposed by the Government Legislative Council to release. This means that if a person submits a false return on property from a formal point of view, he is threatened with up to three years of sanctions, so that is a very disproportionate and non-conceptionary provision. To sum up, the proposal that the Legislative Council of this government is partially unconstitutional is a very question of whether, for this reason, we have reason to look at it further. I therefore also support what has already been proposed in July in order to reject this law at first reading. In conclusion, this law will bring nothing new. By the way, even today, tax authorities, customs authorities, law enforcement authorities have tools to prosecute the grey economy, illegal incomes. We have various pompous media outputs about the functioning of the so-called Cobra. So this law really is a useless legal standard. By the way, setting the value of seven million as the value of unregistered property, if it exceeds seven million, so here the taxpayer is asked to prove the origin of the property and subsequently to be charged with tax or periodic penalty payments, again leads, in my view, to a legitimate infringement, so that those who are dishonest can prepare themselves with their property operations and transfers to this law, so that they do not fit in the public domain and that they do not apply to them. So now the state is telling them to what extent and above what is already something so-called suspicious, even though of course it is not proven, it is also based on often selective decision and individual submission. So now the dishonest ones will be given instructions on how to proceed illegally by this law. That, too, I think it is very unfortunate for the state to proceed this way. As I mentioned, if the government coalition accidentally succeeds in pushing through this proposal, even on the basis of the Government's Legislative Council's opinion, we will turn to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of this law in terms of its constitutionality. This law is completely useless, and it makes vulgar suspects of honest taxpayers, and those who circumvent the laws smile and are already preparing for that law. By the way, what the Minister spoke of at first reading at his opening speech, which took place in his speech, that this law would affect various property transfers abroad, is not a solution to this law. For example, this law does not resolve when someone within their company disposes of their property and leads everything so-called to the company. So even these perpetrators and these con men will not be able to reach this law. So, as I mentioned, this is a completely unnecessary and pointless standard, and I'm applying for a motion to reject it at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u13	Yes, Mr Member, I am registering your proposal and we will vote on it after the end of the debate. Another priority right is Mr Černoch, Mr Ondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, it has been mentioned here that the opposition will not support this proposal, so I would just very much like to comment on this, because we will support this proposal. On the contrary, we think that it should be more comprehensive, it should be more widespread, and we will support this proposal. There's only one sentence backwards. Then Mr Votava, through you, Madam Vice-President, said that this is a priority proposal from the government. And I don't think by the number of representations, I'd like to see what a non-priority proposal looks like. But that's just to the edge. Indeed, in the context of the issue, so the Dawn - the national coalition, of course, is going to support this proposal, which we think really will bring legal certainty in the context of tax collection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u15	I thank and ask another in order and that is Mr Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Government, my colleagues, at the outset, let me tell the rapporteur, through Madam President, that not all the opposition will veto this proposal or oppose it in a renegade way, as Mr Černoch said. So I and myself, and I assume that the entire KSČM parliamentary club, I would like to say that we welcome this proposal and support it in some way. At the same time, I would say that it is a mistake that the proposed amendment is not aimed at draining illegal property, but only at taxing unconfessed income. Property and its value and value only the tax administrator serves as an auxiliary criterion. This is justified by the fact that there is and will continue to be a need for better use of existing instruments, especially in the field of criminal law, to drain illegal property. If the amendment were to be aimed at this, it would be sanctioning the perpetrators of potentially criminal activity through taxes. This can be partly agreed with, but it should be remembered that leaving anyone illegally acquired property and, by virtue of its value, merely taxing unconfessed income means essentially legalising this illegally acquired property. The instruments of criminal law must clearly prove that the property has been acquired in violation of the law and also demonstrate the intent of the perpetrator to commit a criminal offence, which unfortunately does not always work. [[Noise in the hall.]] The purpose of the amendment should therefore be that a person with reasonable suspicion that he had property which he could not obtain by legal means should have an obligation to prove his acquisition and, where appropriate, if he did not prove himself, he should be secured and one thing is... [[It interrupts speech due to noise in the hall, especially on the right.]] ... whether by means of a penalty, forfeiture of property or tax, which would be close to the value of such property. I would have seen 95 percent and above optimally. It is therefore insufficient to refer only to Directive 2014/45/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confiscation of instruments and proceeds from crime in the European Union, for which the implementation period is set by 4 October 2016. The problem should be solved comprehensively, but especially radically. The amendment to submit a call for proof of income in § 38x proposes a difference between income and an increase in assets, consumption or other issuance of a taxpayer value of 7 million. Crowns. This justifies the principle of officiality -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u17	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask the House to keep it down so you can continue your speech, because the noise level has increased considerably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u18	Thank you, Madam President. This is justified by the principle of officiality, so that the capacity of the tax administrator is not wasted in quotation marks on less significant cases where potential tax reductions do not amount to such a high degree of social harm. If the petitioner already uses the concept of social harm, it is appropriate to compare it with criminal law. The highest level of social harm there have cases where the damage exceeds 5 miles. CZK, so in this respect it should probably also be determined this amount, if not lower. There is also a penalty. The proposed penalty payment in Section 38zb of 50 per cent is insufficient for me and will not be effective enough to deter everyone from doing such an act. Therefore, it would be better to increase the penalty when, of course, the percentage can be discussed. The result must be that the violation of tax liability must simply never be paid to anyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u19	I thank you and please take the next one in order. This is Mr. Vilímec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u20	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to the debate not only today but also in July. I also took note of the speech of the Chairman of the Budget Committee. And if he wanted to make the most compelling arguments about this bill being dangerous and bad, he did it. Because, as I have noted, his speech also shows some danger of attacking taxpayers with this law. [[Mr Votava repaires off the microphone: For financial officials.]] To financial officials. He was talking about the moral quality of the tax administrator. He spoke of subjective influence -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u21	Mr. Ambassador, I'm very sorry, but I really hear a lot of noise, and then I don't understand you. Please, all colleagues, if they have something to say to each other, do so in the lobby and do not disturb us in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u22	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'll speak louder and slower. So many of these arguments actually confirm that this law is poorly written, that it is a law very controversial and dangerous. Votava spoke about the fact that the Czech Social Democratic Party proposed the limit, since the submission of a return to property over 5 million, the Ministry of Finance proposed 10 million. Finally, the government proposal contains a sum of 7 million, so I don't know if it's done like in the Prague market. I already think it should get attention. What's going on in this law? It was mentioned very precisely here by colleague Plíšek. At the moment when the financial administration has the so-called reasonable doubts in quotation marks as to whether the taxpayer's income corresponds to an increase in assets and, after preliminary assessment, concludes that the difference between these revenues and the increase in assets could exceed 7 million. CZK, invites the taxpayer to prove income. The burden of proof - and this was mentioned by Mr.Plíšek - will not lie on the tax administrator, but on the taxpayer. This is a huge breakthrough, very dangerous and it is a question of how it is or is not conformal with the Constitution. If the financial administration considers that there has been no demonstration of the facts required in the call for proof of revenue, the tax shall be determined by the administrator in accordance with tax conditions. [[Big noise in the hall.]] There's been talk that if the taxpayer cooperates with the tax administrator, the penalty will be 50 percent if he doesn't cooperate, he'll be 100 percent. It is even a question of the Institute and its definition of co-operation and non-cooperation with the tax administrator. Also, and not much has been said here, the tax administrator will invite the taxpayer to submit a declaration of property if, after a preliminary assessment, it concludes that the aggregate value of the assets which the taxpayer is obliged to state in the property declaration exceeds 10 million. Crowns. This is also included in the bill's proposal. When I read the explanatory report, the explanatory report claims that it is not primarily the aim of the proposal for the creation of the rules that would apply on a flat-rate basis. taxation of the lifestyle. Basically, he might be right. Only the petitioner has withheld that he doesn't actually deliberately lay down any rules and that only matters because of the so-called. suspected tax administrator. I think it's good to accurately recite the passage from the explanatory note in relation to the suspicion of the tax administrator. I quote from the explanatory note...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u23	Ambassador, I understand your silence. I hope that other colleagues will understand and keep it down. I can hear the noise especially from the left side of this hall. I ask my colleagues if they have something to say to each other to do so in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u24	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm quoting from the explanatory note. Thus, the actual activity of the tax administrator using local investigations and the use of analytical search tools monitoring public internal sources of information is envisaged. Cooperation with other public authorities will also be crucial, especially with the authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic and its specialized departments. In addition, the tax administrator may take advantage of incentives from other public authorities or - and beware - from the public. Its credibility and persuasion are prerequisites for the application of such a complaint. What is credible and convincing will probably be judged by the tax administrator. The Member and Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Votava, spoke of the necessity of moral quality. Ladies and gentlemen, with this mechanism and in fact the will of the tax administrator, there is a situation where any incentive, any vendetta of a neighbor or unsuccessful competitor in love and the like, is sufficient, and the tax administrator begins to assess whether the property corresponds or does not correspond to income. In fact, and this has already been said here, any tax payer may be completely liquidated from the point of view of the credibility of personal income tax. This law may be so-called advantageous for the Financial Administration, the word I hear a lot from the mouth of Treasury officials, but it is, by its scope, a possible abuse of some kind of financial police state with everything. Whoever applauds this law, including the President of the Czech Republic, also applauds institutions that can be abused at any time. Depends on who points to who. It seems to me that we have been going back a long time into the past, until some 1950s, when those who possessed more were also affected, those to whom many of the informers pointed out. I therefore consider implementing such a law not only populist but really dangerous for the further development of our country as a democratic society. That is why I also join my colleague Plíšek's proposal to reject this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u25	Thank you. And now please make a factual comment on Mr Votava's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u26	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I will not forgive myself for responding to the words of Mr Vilímec's previous speaker. Mr Vilímč, through Madam President, you have modified my words a little bit in your own image. I did not say that the officials of the Financial Administration would appeal to taxpayers, but I said, on the contrary, that, of course, you were with me in the Committee on Budgets for a long time, we both know the Financial Administration and we know how it works from among some taxpayers, how it attacks the officials, my statement should have been in the sense that, yes, it puts demands on moral assumptions for officials to resist these very attacks. It might have something to do with the payoff. It's just not a bad thing I said. On the contrary, your words might be interpreted that you do not believe in the Financial Administration at all that they are not eligible, and you are putting this in the context of this bill. I'm sure you don't, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u27	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Beznoska's microphone, another duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I want to say that this law must be rejected, so that clearly already at first reading. In fact, it is a law that basically adds selectively to some taxpayers whose choice is either random, will be entirely dependent on the tax administrator, on the way in which he will use his search activities. And thirdly, in our republic, it again accentuates those who want their more successful, let's say even richer neighbors to report. Despite the fact that it is a law that is at the very limit of constitutionality, because in the passage, when there is talk of an additional penalty of 50 and 100 per cent, there is already, from the past, a finding of the Constitutional Court which strictly rejects this. For this reason, I don't think it's possible to let this law go on. As far as retroactivity is concerned, looking back three to ten years, of course, has a link to criminal liability. If you realize that for providing false information, a taxpayer may be punished in prison and may be explaining cases to which there are no accounts and may be up to a few years old, then I completely reject this. I consider it a completely unprecedented invasion of people's privacy. This law, which may seem pleasing to the public, is indeed a pasquil that we should reject at first reading. I will definitely oppose his acceptance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u29	Thank you. Mr. Benda is the next member of the staff, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u30	Madam Vice-President, Mr Vice-President, who takes turns behind my back, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a few comments on this bill. I've never been a fan of property confessions. I consider them complete nonsense and only a way to introduce additional property taxes. But I perceived the efforts and will of the left-handed confessions as an expression of their, say, love of envy to bring them into society and let them work here. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the hall.]] But what I consider complete nonsense is this bill. Those aren't even property confessions. I could still bite off that anyone who's got something has to confess and control themselves. This is just a draft law for a snitch. This is nothing more than a bill for the plaintiffs, snitch, to confirm our national nature, to sue someone. I just can't understand it any other way. I don't know how many times any of you have had intercourse with some tax administrator. When I wasn't in the House, I had contact with the tax administrator. Those are definitely not people who walk the streets and see what kind of property you've acquired, or whether you've bought -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u31	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for interrupting your speech, but I'm going to ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down so that they understand what you're saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u32	Thank you. Those are definitely not people who walk the streets watching whether you bought a villa or a plane or something like that. These are normal officials who tax you and who will only work on the basis of a statement, otherwise it won't be. In this regard, we say that the proposal is indeed absolutely bullying. I do not agree with what the rapporteur says that this is not a bullying proposal. There are no criteria here. If the police are saving anything, let them save crimes, but everything else will just be up to me if there's a neighbor - and I'm telling you not to make anyone feel like I'm in a conflict of interest, no property exceeding 10 miles. I never have, and I suppose I never will, but it's just about whether I'm being pissed off by a neighbor on the street or if there's some expensive cute fund or other non-profit organization whose aim is to walk around and sue everyone and everything that's going to focus on me or anyone else's person. In my opinion, it's a really scary mistake. If you introduce pure property confessions, I'll say "don't do it, you're harassing." But not only are you bothering me like this, but you're only bothering the ones someone sits on that somebody's going to rat on. Frankly, we know that there's no way this is going to work. Those who want to cover up their assets, whether they've acquired them in any way, whether from criminal activity or simply because they haven't taxed something, which is also a criminal offense to some extent, but these people can always hide it. [[13.50 hours]] Gold bricks in a house or accounts in the Canary Islands or dozens of other things as they can be hidden, none of us can reveal. They're very hard to detect by the police. I'm sure the Financial Administration can't detect them. He doesn't have the mechanisms or the means. Those big thieves are gonna run away anyway, and it's just gonna be a law of envy when someone in the neighborhood thinks I built a house too expensive, and they're gonna go sue me, and I'm gonna have to go and prove to the financial office that either I had the property three, five, ten, fifteen years ago, that I could make it for myself over the years, which, by the way, is not gonna be so difficult, but it's gonna be all for the financial office. I think it's really unfortunate. And now I look away from the brutal sanctions that are mentioned there, which, in my opinion, will not work either. The second thing for which I will then propose, because I suspect that this bill will probably pass through the first reading, if the entire government coalition and the Communist Party's MP club have spoken to it, I assume that it will pass through the first reading, but I will still request that we order it to the constitutionally legal committee to discuss at least that part of the criminal penalties. The idea that we are introducing a six-month-to-three-year criminal offence is to be removed from the rate of one year to six months to three years for poorly completed, perhaps intentionally, perhaps unintentionally, property returns, that is the essence of this proposal. I have up to three years' sentence for a property confession that I'm going to make a mistake in. I've been sitting here on the mandate committee for many years. I know how many people have made a mistake. And I will not draw attention to the mistakes that have happened in this parliamentary term, even though I know about them. How many people have made a mistake in their confession, and these are Members and Senators and members of the government. It should be people who have the apparatus. How many people made the simple mistake of not understanding something, reporting it wrong, admitting it. If it wasn't intent, we'd always deal with it in an arrangement. But I can assure you that at this rate, we could have some 40 deputies and government members in the last few years. It's so unimaginable to say up to three years for me to say something wrong in a confession you're forcing me to make. Just think about it, please. It's one thing if I'm being delivered. The second thing is to make me snitch on myself, with sanctions within three years, when I accidentally snitch on myself somehow. I'm telling you, many of the wordings that are chosen, as always in all tax laws, are so incomprehensible... For example, I honestly have no idea what a money debt is, whether I owe someone or someone owes me. These are significant differences, and it's not clear here if my property has any influence, that someone owes me, or if I owe someone. I also don't understand why "or" is mentioned in this section, because apparently when I have a cash debt, I don't have to fill out an explicit statement that I have provided complete and true data. And little things like that. These are more details. I'm just saying, if you want to push for something like that, it's supposed to be so across the board and not based on snitching. And if you do, you can't force a taxpayer under such severe criminal sanctions, which, frankly, are just as harsh as criminal sanctions for not paying the tax itself to sue each other. Then I will mention a few small, rather technical, but again why I think at least the constitutional law committee should read it, because I just think that finances can't write laws, at least in the general form. If you look at Section 38Z Special provisions on the requirements of the declaration of property, you have such a cute wording in the first sentence: In the declaration of property, the taxpayer is not obliged to provide information that the tax administrator can identify from the register and records to which he has access. The second sentence states: These data will be published by the tax administrator on an official plate and in a way that allows remote access. I know what that means, of course. That's why I'm saying it's so terribly wrong written. He says the records I have access to, so I should post them on the official record and in a way that allows remote access. But as the sentence is written, it says: these data are the data that the taxpayer has already found, which is accessible, and I have no idea why the tax office should publish them on an official record and in a way that allows remote access. These are all non-public data, or at least part of them is not public and does not make sense for them to be published by the tax administrator. [[Noise in the hall.]] And there's a lot of stuff like that. Wind bonding... § 38zc para. 3 - in turn, I understand what this means, but establishing a second sentence behind the semicolon "in respect of failure to fulfil this obligation, the tax administrator is not bound by the obligation of confidentiality for the purposes of criminal proceedings" again makes no sense at all and refers to the obligation of the tax administrator to the taxpayer. I have no idea why he wouldn't be bound by confidentiality. Apparently it's not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u33	I'm sorry, gentlemen, colleagues, but your conversation is really loud enough to not understand what is being said here. Thank you for respecting that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u34	I thank the Vice-President for making peace. It is obvious that ministers seem interested in my performance and are trying to prepare amendments in case the bill happens to pass into second reading. I repeat 38zc: the link to when the tax administrator is released from the obligation of confidentiality makes no sense at all, because it applies to the obligation that he has as a duty to the taxpayer. I understand, again, what he wants to say, but I think that it is written in language so desperately that the obligation would not apply to the obligation that he himself has to the taxpayer. And there's more stuff like that. Regardless of the outcome of the motion for rejection, which I am of course joining, and because I suspect that it will not pass, then I would enter into a detailed debate and suggest that, in addition to the Committee on Budgets, to which it has been ordered, so, in particular, for the purposes of amending the Criminal Code, the bill should also be attributed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think we need to read it in linguistic terms, because the language creation of the Ministry of Finance is really understandable only to the Ministry of Finance and unfortunately no one else in this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. For the record, today's meeting ends at 2:00. I note here one factual point and one proper application for the debate. And before that, I'm gonna read the note cards that came to me. Today, from 13:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m., Mr. Ondřej Benešík apologizes. Furthermore, from 11.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes. Mr Lubomír Toufar apologizes from 14:00 to 14:30 today because of the consultation with the Austrian integration policy expert. Mr Petr Kořenek also apologizes from his duties today since 13.15. In addition, today's meeting at 13:00 for work reasons, Mr Gabrhel apologizes. As it is 13.59, I will read to the Steno that, with a proper application for this point, Mr Kučera is registered and Mrs Lorencová is registered with a factual remark. And at this point, I'm going to interrupt... [[Chairman Stanjura demands words.]] With priority rights, but in that case, I must give the floor to Mrs Lorencová, who is reporting with a point of fact. The Member withdraws her point of order, in which case you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u36	Mr Vice-President, I believe that this meeting will not be interrupted but terminated. And in order to end it, we need to vote on the elimination of all unnegotiated points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-02-ps2013-031-07-010-038.u37	At this point it's exactly 14 hours, i.e. a meeting has been agreed by this hour and I will interrupt this point at this point. I'm going to interrupt this point, i.e. I am interrupting this item, and we will also vote to remove the remaining items from the agenda. That is the procedure I proposed, President Stanjuro, when I spoke. Then I'll ring the bell and call in my colleagues from the lobby and repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote to remove the remaining items from the agenda. I'm registering the check-out request, so I'm going to check you out and ask you to rejoin. I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of removing the remaining items from the agenda. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with serial number 236, registered 113 Members, for 83, against 22. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved and that the remaining points have been excluded from the hearing. I thank you, colleagues, for your cooperation and end the agenda of the 31st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you and have a good weekend.
