ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u1	1. Information to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic on the solution of illegal immigration within EU territory Today in your e-mail you have been distributed materials Information for the 30th emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the subject of illegal migration in the territory of the European Union and Overview of crisis events with migration impacts in selected countries and regions for May 2015 prepared by the Ministry of the Interior. These materials have also been distributed to you on the bench. I ask that the representatives of the various members who have asked to convene this meeting take the floor gradually. First, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, I appreciate the fact that the Chamber of Deputies finally meets on a topic that is certainly crucial for the Czech public and for the entire continent. I am sorry that we could not discuss this point as we suggested at a proper meeting. I think that given the seriousness of this issue and the public's desire to get answers to a number of questions, this would be more appropriate to us than to seek this explanation through an extraordinary meeting. However, the fact that this has happened or has not happened is not important, I do not want to argue much about this here. I want to talk about what the Civil Democratic Party has in mind about the situation in the area of refugees and what we expect from the government at this time. If you recall, the Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution in February that had seven points, and the points that I consider to be still up to date have just moved somewhere else, because from February to today, the situation has changed dramatically, so I would like to comment, to say the attitude and proposal of the Civil Democratic Party, and also to raise questions that we have on the government and we would like to know the answers to them. First of all, the point of the resolution, which says that we support the strengthening of humanitarian aid from the Czech Republic's budget in refugee camps in Jordan, Turkey and other countries where people from Syria are fleeing mass. That was paragraph 3 of our resolution. I would like to say that the opinion of the Civil Democratic Party is that it is certainly better to spend money, even more money than we have spent so far, from the state budget, because our security will certainly cost us something. It is not possible to think that in the crisis we are going through, i.e. those migratory waves that are trying to get into Europe, that we will come out of this without any high demands on money. Either we invest the money in those camps that, if it succeeds, that is the optimal option, will arise in the countries of origin of the migrants, and we will try to keep them there with that level of humanitarian aid that we agree on, and it will cost us something, or it will come to our territory, and the costs will be increased by the fact that our society will also be slowly overthrown, because the influx of refugees, which is currently counted only for a thousand, the quotas are talking about the division of 40,000 in these two years, but on the banks of Africa, it is estimated that the Commissioner, who is in charge of protecting the external borders of the Schengen area, is a broad estimate, but he is talking about half a million to million refugees. [[18.10 hours]] It is certainly not desirable for these masses to be in motion, and I would see a great risk not only for the Czech Republic. That is why the ODS believes that it is better to go against these risks by discussing at European level how a budget can be increased from individual countries, as the European Union's budget can be reduced at the same time, so that from those chapters which do not have the weight, the level of risk and the danger that this money is transferred to a chapter that would ensure the security of the Schengen area and try to address the issue of refugees in some better way than it has so far. If we have support for humanitarian aid in this point 3, allow me to take a small turn. I always suffer when it responds to our reservations against receiving refugees the sentence: Well, that is an inhumane attitude, for we are obliged to help those in great need who deserve our help. And I am looking at those convoys of ships that are coming to the shores of Europe, and I myself went to see the northern Italy in private to see what the situation is there, and I see dominating young men who are coming and trying to be saved in the middle of the European Union. For me, humanitarian aid, especially in places that are in a state of war or in a difficult situation of crop failure, famine, etc., is that we take care of the most vulnerable - children, women, old people. But all of a sudden, the question is that the humanitarian attitude is when we take care of these people who stay in Africa, in Syria, those old, sick, children and women, when European populations take care of them, while their sons, instead of taking care of their families with all their strength and defending some bearable conditions inside their country, they go to Europe. It seems to me that there is a distorted interpretation of what is and is not humanitarian aid, what is and is not the responsibility of each individual person, whether he lives in Africa or lives in Europe. I had so much to interpret to that point 3. And my questions to the government are like this. I would like to know the answer to the question of exactly how much money has so far been released for this assistance within the humanitarian camps. Whether the government has an idea of a possible increase in these funds. Whether she has dealt with someone in the European Union and what levels this increase should take place. I also wonder if we are discussing the expansion of refugee camps with some countries in the very places where migrants are coming, in order to stop them there, to prevent them from going to sea and coming to the shores of Europe, to give them maximum assistance there. So which countries we are already dealing with. The fourth item in our resolution was the issue of quotas. It's getting out of the whole problem the most. Now the most discussed issue is whether the Czech Republic and the other countries of the European Union, together with it, should proceed on a proposal from the Commission on the mandatory distribution of refugees for individual Member States. The question is not only about the tension in the public, but I know that next week there will be a European Union summit, and I think, as we discussed in the ODS, that our resolution from February this year is still in force. As citizens' democrats, we reject mandatory quotas for individual countries of the European Union. We believe that, despite the maximum diplomatic effort, the journey should lead to the creation of refugee zones in their countries of origin with the support of the European Union. Just keep them at home as much as possible. Then we believe that there should be pressure on the European Union to strengthen personnel support for identification and possibly financial support to identify those who are already arriving on the shores of Europe so that their further progress to other countries is under some sort of control. We have spoken very often, and it can also be read about the model of Australia, which has established such a mandate territory in Cambodia and I think somewhere else. Nor will they allow asylum seekers to enter their territory, do not accept refugees and send a clear signal - it has been, I must admit, rather those economic refugees, not refugees from those war countries, I would like to divide this, because this is a different situation - but they have taken it very hard and I think that we could accept some of the elements of the Australian model. I also think that the big mistake of the system of mandatory quotas is that there have been several years of various asylum procedures that have been set up differently in different countries. Those countries that have opened their arms widely in recent years now find that this was not the right decision, that they are already burdened by the flood of refugees very much, and now they want us to carry a part of that burden to us. I understand the principle of solidarity, but I do not think that individual societies, whether they are in Sweden, Germany or other countries, are starting to feel this weight of refugees, that we will help the situation by burdening ourselves. I consider such a policy to be very wrong. So my questions on this point are whether the government is really clear on the issue of quotas. Because I have read the statements made by Vice-President Bělobrádek, who speaks of receiving refugees, more than a thousand a year, Minister Chovanec says that he does not know where Minister Bělobrádek came up with such numbers, that he does not know anything about it. I do not doubt that the members of the government have any ideas, but the report must be clear to the public. The Government of the Czech Republic accepts quotas or does not accept quotas. We want to receive refugees and to what extent or not to receive them. I would therefore like to clarify this issue. I would also like to ask what I have heard about Italy's burden, but, of course, Greece, which according to Deputy Prouza or the Director of the Department, I do not know exactly that Italy is not responding to offers of financial and personnel support to cope with this surge. So I wonder if the government actually dealt with the Italian partners and offered them some kind of help and was actually rejected. Then I would also like to know the answer to what the European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dimitris Avramopulos, says - I quote: 'The agreement on compulsory quotas will be concluded by the end of July'. Are we to understand that there is a clear plan here and all that is happening is a little bit of political folklore and is it already known in advance that the agreement will be concluded, or is it rather the wishful thinking of the Commissioner, some rather his message home, which is not supported by any realities that would have been based on the negotiations so far? I would also like to know the government's answer to that. I would also like to know whether we have discussed with the Italian party the plan B, which Prime Minister Matteo Renzi mentioned, about issuing Schengen visas which will allow refugees to move within all European countries for three months. He may have threatened it, but the Prime Minister of Italy is not just anyone, and I wonder if we have dealt with them in any way. I would like to take a moment to address the issue of the Schengen area, because it is in paragraph 6 of our resolution, where we call on the Government to promote the free movement of persons within the Schengen area, and we reject the proposals for limiting it. The opinion of the ODS is that we insist that this be the priority of the Czech Republic, i.e. the preservation of the Schengen area. Of course, we are very careful about what is happening, whether out of desperation in individual countries. What is practiced at the border between France and Italy near the town of Ventimiglia, what is happening there in the north of Italy, e.g. in the city of Bolzano, where many of the refugees are now concentrated at the railway station and there are already skirmishes, because many of them are dissatisfied with the treatment of them or with the procedure. [[18.20 hours]] The same can be said that Austria has stopped the asylum procedure for a while, Hungary is starting to build a 175-mile-long fence, four metres-high between it and Serbia, which I would welcome very much, on the one hand, because it is mandatory to secure the green border, the external border of the Schengen area, but it also announces that by the end of this year Maďar expect 130 thousand refugees to pass through here. And I would also like to hear some government opinion about that. If this number is valid and if we're ready for it. This morning, or yesterday, there was already a speech, one of my colleagues was talking about the situation of those arriving trucks across the city of Calais. The situation, which is very dramatic there, also shows that Schengen space is at risk. That those who want to protect him in some way may, in some way, come to the conclusion that the boundaries, as they have so far been opened, will begin to close. I have also heard the comment of the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec, who admits that we must be prepared for the fact that there may also be some control on the Czech borders other than what is happening now. So I would need to know and know the answer to the question of whether we are taking any preparatory steps in this sense. I deliberately followed the pattern of our resolution in February, because I believe that the Chamber of Deputies said its will by doing so, gave a mandate to the government in which it expects it to move. I've only touched on those points that I think are the most important, and they've had dramatic developments. Both the evolution of the quotas and the development of the possibility of changing the borders of the Schengen... or changes to the regime at the borders of the Schengen area. That is why I think it is useful for us to raise these questions, for the government to answer them and send out a signal to the public as to the situation in all the aspects that we are able to describe, and what is the position of the Czech government, with which it will leave for the nearest meeting. Whether he has negotiated any support from countries that are qualified to refuse quotas. What it will mean for us if we actually reject it. If we are to expect any sanctions from the European Union for such an attitude, or we are not to expect anything like this. I dare say that these are the most serious questions the public would like to know the answer to. So thank you for your attention at the moment. For finally, the government has decided to allow this meeting to be held and to provide us with information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. I'm asking if for the club that suggested it, if another club is interested in adding a point or designing a point. Mr. Marek Ženíšek is interested. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor to state your reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I am glad that the agenda for this meeting has been approved. In my opinion, the House deserves that we should be able to debate this subject in much more detail and that it is precisely those who do not have the right to participate in the debate. I am of the opinion that the government, precisely because of the convening of this meeting, should use it to involve the opposition more in the formulation of the government's positions on this subject, which will probably remain a major issue in the coming years. I cannot speak for everyone in the opposition right now, but at least for TOP 09 I can declare that TOP 09 is ready to work with the government on this subject, as is happening, for example, at present in the preparation of a new foreign policy concept. In my view, we are currently in a situation where the problem of illegal migrants shows that the current instruments and measures of the European Union are not enough to address the issue, and it is clear that the belt of instability and chaos in our wide neighbourhood will not cease in the near future and will rather expand. It is therefore necessary to discuss this not only today, but also in the future. I firmly believe that the government will include on the agenda some of the other meetings information on how the whole thing is developing and what its current positions and positions are, for example, at negotiations within the institutions of the European Union. [[There's a lot of noise in the room. Members are having fun.]] The TOP 09 is in line with the government that the introduction of mandatory quotas does not solve the problem, on the contrary, there is a rare consensus across the political spectrum. After all, this shows the forthcoming text of the resolution, which could be adopted at the end of this meeting, that all the political factions agreed on the text, and proves that the House can and is able to take a united position on such a serious issue as illegal immigration currently is. The quotas, the arguments are the same. We consider it unfortunate, because it is quotas that would be introduced by the European Commission, even if individual states do not agree with them, as well as the majority in society, that could have an unfortunate impact on the integration itself and on the European Union project itself as such. Much more likely would be used by all anti-European or xenophobic populist parties, who simply resent the project of the European Union or a single Europe. In my opinion, the Schengen area as such is thus at risk today, in particular, by trying to introduce control at internal borders within the European Union. After all, even one part of the resolution is expressing itself on this. Re-establishing border controls within the European Union will not solve the problem of migration and, on the contrary, would undermine the free movement of not only persons but also goods and would complicate the situation of some Czech exporters at least from a time point of view. Yet it is obvious that the problem with immigrants will not be avoided by the Czech Republic either, and it is therefore appropriate for the government to state clearly during today's meeting what capacity of immigrants on a voluntary basis counts on the criteria for asylum, where these people will be placed -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u5	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for peace! If you are discussing a subject other than the subject of this meeting, please in the foyer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u6	I'm sure they're discussing immigration policy. Furthermore, it would probably be appropriate for the government to make it clear today whether, for example, it is communicating with the regions or with the municipalities whether it is somehow preparing for the state administration situation and how it plans to integrate immigrants into society. Other issues to which the government should answer, in my opinion, concern plans in the medium or long term. It would be appropriate for the government to make it clear whether it supports - I expect it to confirm that it supports increasing the resources for protecting the external borders of the European Union, or to what extent. If we agree that something is problem number one, then, of course, the number one priority must also be reflected in the European Union budget itself, thereby strengthening the protection of the European Union's external borders. [[18.30 hours]] The Czech Republic should probably also show what other measures it itself is planning, what it is ready to support. I believe that some things will be specified in the information that the Prime Minister or the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Foreign Affairs will present shortly. Whether it is only the contribution in the form of one Casa, or whether it is simply preparing other measures that could help within the European Union, etc. Whether we support the highly discussed concept of Hot Spots, that is, some kind of border surveillance in Italy or, for example, currently in Greece, so that all refugees who appear in these countries are registered in these countries and whether or not the development or humanitarian policy of the Czech Republic will change in some way in order to meet the current needs and challenges and respond adequately to the problem of illegal migration. These are all questions that I am waiting for today, and I believe that both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister will answer these questions. In my view, in the long run, it is desirable that the European Union should also consider such solutions and measures that have been taboo to some extent so far, thus providing instruments that would effectively address this problem. I am thinking, above all, of what I was talking about today in the context of today's interpellation to the Prime Minister. I am glad that he confirmed that he too sees some of these solutions as a way in the right direction. I am referring, for example, to the creation, in cooperation with certain countries of North Africa, of some kind of detention zones or protection zones that would be financed from the EU budget and where they could possibly return, where those who are not granted protection for an objective reason, would be granted asylum. This will probably be a very costly solution. On the other hand, it is still much cheaper than dealing with the situation on Europe's continent itself. These are all very important things in my opinion, and it is our duty, and I am pleased that we will have a debate about them today on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, my colleague Ženíšek. Now I ask if Marek Černoch wants to complete the proposal that was made. Yes, he does. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u8	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Your Grace. I'm going to speak here for the entire Dawn Parliamentary Club. We say that this crisis, which comes under illegal immigration, is now one of the biggest problems, if not the biggest problem, which not only threatens the Czech Republic, but the whole of Europe. It is a pity that the answers to the questions that we are going to ask today could not be given as an item in a proper meeting and that extraordinary meetings have to be convened for this. On the other hand, I must say that it is actually better, because they have the opportunity to speak, they have the opportunity to say what they feel about it. They have an opportunity to comment. It is really incomprehensible to me that, on Tuesday's vote, some government Members, let me not speak globally, some government Members, unfortunately, have rejected our proposal for this information by their vote. As has already been said, the problem is huge. More than 42,000 refugees arrived in Greece this year. The number of refugees illegally arriving in the Greek islands has increased six times since last year. Similarly, Italy, where more than 170,000 refugees arrived last year. And another hundreds of thousands of refugees will arrive in Europe next year if we do not prevent it and if we do not accept a real solution. This problem is escalating. You can see it all over Europe. It is no longer just a question of southern Europe, Italy, Greece, it is now a question of states such as France, Germany, such as Austria, as currently, in a very short time, the Czech Republic will also be. All states are responding. At the border with Italy, strict police controls are introduced by France, Austria. The refugees are even protesting these checks because they can't get any further. On Saturday, the Austrian Interior Minister officially announced that her country would not receive any more refugees. The situation is also alarming in Germany, where border control has increased due to the G7 summit. Only 105,000 people were checked in Bavaria, 430 of them were banned from entering the country, and another 8,600 are investigating for violations of immigration rules. In addition, 350 wanted persons were detained, and police officers also discovered drug smugglers and gun smugglers. In Saxony, police checked 110,000 people at the border, and even 60 had to be detained. These are just small fragments of what awaits us, unless we adopt a resolution, in the near future. All we have heard so far is that the government will not support the quotas. Unfortunately, the problem didn't happen day after day. The problem has been going on for a long time, and in the past few months, past years have been constantly assured that nothing like this will happen, that nothing like this will happen. And at the moment, it's completely really on the table. It has even come to such an extent that some government Members in the European Parliament have supported this quota proposal. Quote from STEM survey, which says that illegal immigrants consider 71 percent a great danger to the Czech Republic; Islamic fundamentalists fear 82 percent of respondents. Unfortunately, it is also a problem for the media, and for the public media, which inform in this regard absolutely inadequately and thus create the ground to create various groups of extremists - sometimes extremists, sometimes people who invent stories and spread them on social networks. If the media, the public media, had informed them as they should, this situation would not have happened. Unfortunately, we have been witnessing long months of endless debates, discussions on refugee issues. It was two camps, conflicting claims. On the one hand, that Europe needs immigrants, on the other hand, that these people are not going to Europe to build a better Europe, but to destroy our culture and lifestyle. These discussions divided and kept dividing. But things have really gotten moving very quickly at this point, and it has to be said that Europe is not holding the reins of these events in its hands. A huge influx of illegal immigrants is flooding the continent, and the time has come for us as Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to start calling things true names. This tidal wave is nothing more than an invasion. At this point, this wave is spreading not only to Europe but also to the Czech Republic. There must be people among the refugees who are needed and who would integrate. But our European security forces are unable to separate these people from the potential or even real radicals that are sending out various organizations in our territory headed by the Islamic State. Just remember the incident that took place in Paris, when in broad daylight terrorists fired the paper of the satirical diary and then four days - four days - successfully escaped 90,000 armed men of French police and army. I think it has shown to a large extent how inefficient and toothless our system is. [[18.40 hours]] The discussion of this threat should be conducted and conducted across the political spectrum. I remember an article by my colleague Jermanová "The Foot in the Door" that I think is getting a completely different breath today, inhaling that it is no longer a foot in the door, but that the door is either open or it is closing slowly. Let's all really work together on this. Let's call things the way they are. Let's call them real names. Let's work on not dealing with the outcome, but to be able to face it in some way at a time when it can be confronted. There is no way that a few chosen individuals who do not want to hear or hear the voices of citizens can decide our fates and fates of Europe, and they do not care. Let us look for solutions together with other countries of the European Union. Let us look for a common solution where the problem arises - the Middle East, Africa, the Middle East. Let us look for solutions that will eliminate the cause of these events and not the consequences. Let's stop being politically correct. Let's start calling things the right names, because it's time to take responsibility for your words, for your actions. I hereby responsiblely declare that it is in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, in the interests of the Czech Republic as such, in the interests of the whole of Europe to intervene hard against the invasion of illegal - illegal - immigrants, to set up a return policy, not to make agencies to guard the external borders of the European Union, travel agencies that are moving illegal, illegal immigrants into the European Union, from where they can then move more or less without any problems within the Schengen area throughout Europe. We would like the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a proposal for measures including budgetary measures to ensure long-term protection of national borders against illegal immigrants. Furthermore, to make a proposal for the Government to address the case that the European Union would order the Czech Republic to accept refugee quotas, and also to inform the Czech Government of the Chamber of Deputies and citizens on a regular basis about this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u9	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. I ask for peace in the Chamber of Deputies. I will draw attention to both the rules and the gallery, the rules for visitors apply, and I request protection services to ensure peace. I now ask the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, to present a report by the Government on the solution of illegal immigration in the territory of the European Union and the Czech Republic, and then you will determine the various ministers, as is the case, Prime Minister. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was a little worried that the House would start to discuss and vote on the motion for a resolution before the report requested by the opposition at the Chamber of Deputies meeting was heard. I am glad to be able to get to the floor, because I was somewhat confused when I came to the House, I saw on the board point Information of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic on the solution of illegal immigration to the European Union and Mrs Němcová spoke here on this matter. Allow me, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, to now, after three quarters an hour, speak for the Government of the Czech Republic on this matter. I believe that Europe is at a fateful crossroads again at the moment. The migration crisis, which is at the moment, requires very strong cooperation between the individual Member States of the European Union. No country can solve this crisis on its own. No country is able to manage it alone with just some of its measures at national level. That's a total illusion. The resolution of the crisis also requires the necessary degree of solidarity within the European Union. It also requires strong leadership from the European Commission, because it is clear that it is the European Commission, whose role has been strengthened. After all, we also have a permanent President of the Council of the European Union today, that we have a permanent representative of the European Union for foreign policy. Thus, on the basis of the previous changes that have taken place in the Union, the leadership of the European Union is greatly strengthened, and this must now stand. It shall be sufficiently firm and shall be sufficiently decisive. Unfortunately, until this crisis broke out, we failed to create a stronger pillar of the common foreign and common defence policy within Europe. I think, especially in the situation we are experiencing today in relation to Ukraine, but also in relation to the migration crisis, which is at least as serious as what is happening in the east of Europe, and perhaps even more serious, so I think it is a mistake that Europe does not have a stronger and better organised line of its own defence policy and that it does not have a stronger line of foreign policy. I'll get back to that when I talk about the various aspects and the possibilities of solutions that are ahead of us. Why is Europe at a fateful crossroads? Among other things, the situation in our immediate vicinity has deteriorated considerably. In many cases, efforts to export values of liberal democracy to countries that have a very different history, culture and religion have failed tragically. International institutions, whether they are the UN, the OSCE, but also organisations where we are members, such as NATO or the European Union, have not been able to cope with the problems of a wide belt located south and east of the European Union. That just didn't work out. So in recent years, we have witnessed a significant destabilisation of our surroundings. The European Union, when you look at the map today, and I know that the Minister of the Interior Chovanec has handed out a map that shows the outbreaks, the countries from which the migration current is coming and coming out, which we are going to discuss here, when you look at the map, Europe actually remains here as a certain island of stability. The island of a relatively high standard of living. A place where people have a chance not only for safety, elementary security, but also for health care and basic social security. And it is no wonder that the island of stability, in the midst of the insecure North Africa, in the middle of the war in the Middle East, attracts the attention of people who think about spending the rest of their lives. If they spend it in the midst of uncertainty, decay, decay of their own countries, or if they try their luck somewhere else. Ukraine. Her economic downturn. The war in the east of Donbas. The disintegration of Syria. A civil war that rages there. Iraq's breakdown. The real breakup of Iraq. The collapse of state structures in Somalia. Situation in Mali. Fighting with Islamic extremists in Central Africa. The collapse of Libya, where civil war rages. This is simply a very brief description of what is happening around Europe. I'll get to it. Of course, what is happening has serious internal consequences. When I talk about Europe being at a crossroads, of course, the solutions that we are going to vote will also affect the mood, the views of citizens, as they will apply in the next few years. We have a democratic system. Europe itself is based on democratic principles. And I fear that if Europe chooses the wrong solution - I will then get to it, I consider it part of the wrong solution to the quota - I fear that it will only be living water. Living water for extremists, living water for xenophobics, for marginal currents, which can ultimately intensify to the point that it will at all decompose Europe to prevent any meaningful continuation of further European integration. That's what I think is a big problem. [[18.50 hours]] Of course, internal consequences are also reflected in the fact that in the second, third generation of immigrants from the Muslim environment, from the Arab world, they are radicalized. Even as a result of the ideal contact with the Islamic State. The descendants of immigrants in the second and third generations go to fight in Iraq, go to fight in Syria. Many of them will return to Europe. We've seen assassinations in Paris. Thus, what is happening increases tensions within Europe, not only political but also security tensions. Before the migration wave arrived, I merely recall the fears of terrorism, which spread especially after the brutal assassination in Paris. So all of this is a thing that makes the situation in Europe very difficult. To complement the picture, I think it is also necessary to add to the very objectively disturbed relations between Europe and Russia that have occurred as a result of the crisis in Ukraine. And I just remind you that cooperation with Russia, for example, in the Middle East or North Africa, can be very important in many respects. The cooperation has been disrupted as a result of the crisis in Ukraine, and this can, of course, also mean some restrictions on our maneuvering space. As I have already mentioned, I do not think that this situation can be underestimated. I don't think it's just a matter of the next few months, that it's gonna blow over, and in a few months, there's gonna be another topic. I think it's a matter of a few years, maybe a number of years. I think it will change Europe, that it will change European policy. And now it is up to us, as the Czech Republic, to act in a direction that we believe will help Europe. Let me, therefore, comment in detail on the situation, in order to try to respond to some of the comments that have already been made here in advance as part of the performance of the club representatives who have called this meeting. And I'll start with what's actually going on. Most important, and now we are talking about migration, migrants to the countries of the European Union are heading in several strong currents. The central Mediterranean route is the most important. Then the western Balkan route and the eastern Mediterranean route. In 2014, the Central Mediterranean route used 170 thousand. refugees, which was an increase of 270 % compared to 2013. In the first five months of this year, 47 thousand arrived at the Italian border. refugees. These were mainly people from Eritrea, Somalia and other people from sub-Saharan Africa. As far as the Western Balkan route is concerned, 37 thousand were heading to the European Union last year. refugees, which meant almost 90% of the increase compared to 2013. Only this year, over 50 thousand have crossed the border in this region. migrants, especially people from Kosovo, Afghánec and Syřan. This route is currently becoming the main migration stream. As far as the eastern Mediterranean route is concerned, it recorded over 50 thousand in 2014. illegal border crossings. Only this year, 47 thousand have passed through here. refugees, especially people from Syria and Afghanistan. These statistics and, in particular, their rapid upward trend are alarming and, naturally, they cannot only allow Europe to take passively into account further developments. As can be seen from the spectrum of nationalities that most often go to Europe, the main cause of these migration flows must be the number of conflicts that are taking place in our neighbourhood. When we talk about refugees today, we talk about migration. I think we talk about the consequences, and we often forget what was at the beginning. The situation in North Africa and the Middle East has become very confusing and complicated. For most of us, it is very difficult to navigate and explore the roots of this political, security and humanitarian tragedy. Therefore, honourable Members, allow me first a small excursion to what has led to the destabilisation of this part of the world, because I think that without knowing the causes, the consequences can be dealt with very difficultly. On 17 December 2010, a young street salesman was burned to death in Tunisia, protesting by his desperate act against the bullying of police and state authorities. He awakened the long-pressed frustration of his fellow citizens. High unemployment, corruption, poor living conditions drove hundreds of thousands of Tunisians into the streets, Tunisan their pressure to resign their longtime president, bin Alí. The protests in Tunisia then launched a wave of social and political unrest that gradually spilled into Egypt, poured into Libya, Syria, and other Arab countries as well. At that time, the Arab Spring hit a large part of the areas that today are the source of this migration wave. And the Arab Spring also hit the world largely unprepared. Although there have been predictions that those authoritarian regimes that have been operating in this region for a long time, sooner or later, there was no strategy - and in my opinion, neither did Europe, nor did the United States - on which we could act effectively. While Tunisia's demonstrations brought free elections and the emergence of a democratic government, there was no progress in other countries, and even today it is not optimistic. In Libya, the conflict between the opposition and Kaddáfí's dictatorial regime resulted in bloody struggles in which thousands of people died. I merely recall that in March 2011, the coalition of the United States, France and Great Britain intervened against pro-regime forces to facilitate the victory of the opposition there. However, the victory of the opposition in Libya did not lead to Libya embarking on a path of stabilisation and democratisation. Libya is tossed with civil war today, there are several desecrated factions, there are two governments, the state apparatus has fallen apart, the basic functions of the state have been disrupted. The international community is trying to negotiate a ceasefire, trying to organize talks, but unfortunately they have not yet led to any real outcome. Even more complicated and tragic is the situation in Syria. Here, four years ago, President Bashir's peaceful Bašír protests were severely suppressed. It led to an armed rebellion. From Iraq, militant groups of jihadists have moved to Syria, who have begun to fight not only the regime of Asadův, but also some of the Syrian opposition. So today we have a civil war in Syria by a number of desecrated groups. Let's look at Iraq. The Islamic State occupied over a third of Syria's territory and also occupied a significant part of Iraq. The US military left Iraq in 2011, and the country's transition to democracy has largely also failed. He crashed into the hostility of individual religious sects. A group of Islamic States was formed, which took power over a large part of western and northern Iraq very quickly in June 2014. If you look at Iraq today, Iraq is heading towards disintegration rather than anything else. This is a very brief and brief description of what has happened in recent years to the south and southeast of the Schengen borders of the European Union. I think that, after what has happened there, no one can be surprised that this serious situation is taking place and that more and more people are trying to get from this region to places that are more stable. The European Union and the Czech Republic, as I have already mentioned, have not been on the sidelines in recent years. We have tried to contribute to the stabilisation of this region. We have provided humanitarian assistance, we have provided development aid, but of course those investments that have been made by us or other countries have not yet led to a positive outcome. As regards the European Union's procedure. In response to the tragic events in the Mediterranean, which were linked to the fact that the original strong migration stream, which was heading for Europe from Africa, was linked to sea transports that were carried out on ships that were very often unable to reach the Italian shores, there were a number of tragedies that required a large number of human lives. [[19.00 hours]] In response to these tragic events in the Mediterranean Sea, an extraordinary European Council meeting was held in Brussels on 23 April this year, and I think that the extraordinary European Council is essentially bordering on the period when the topic of migration becomes a fundamental and key issue from the point of view of the functioning of the European Union. The aim of the European Council meeting in April was to find an effective response from the Union and the Member States to the current migration crisis. The Heads of State or Government then adopted a joint declaration approving concrete action in four areas. The first area is saving human lives at sea, especially by strengthening operation Triton and Poseidon and extending search and rescue actions under the mandate of Frontex. Secondly, the aim was to combat human trafficking and the criminal aspects of migration, where the European Council decided to specify efforts to identify and destroy the vessels that smugglers use. Thirdly, prevention of illegal migration flows, where cooperation with third countries is crucial, has been defined as the objective. Fourthly, strengthening solidarity and accountability within the European Union. The European Council, under the last mentioned point, has committed Member States to more effective coordination of resettlement with the possibility of extraordinary relocation, but on a purely voluntary basis, without any quantification. At that time, the Czech Republic welcomed an emergency meeting of the European Council, supporting the adoption of a joint declaration that, as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, I stressed the interest of the Czech Republic in maintaining the principle of volunteering for refugees. The European Commission has also responded to the current situation. On 13 May, the European Commission published a communication entitled the European Agenda for Migration. It presented its vision for the further functioning of the European Union's migration policies, that is to say, an immediate solution to the situation and also a strategic approach to migration. The programme was specified by the Commission on 27 May when it submitted a proposal for the launch of an emergency relocation system pursuant to Article 78 (1) of the Treaty. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 24,000 asylum seekers from Italy and 16,000 asylum seekers from Greece should be relocated. In both cases, it should be the citizens of Syria and Eritrea. According to this proposal from the European Commission, the Czech Republic would be 3.32 percent of the total number of relocations, i.e. 797 persons from Italy, respectively. 531 people from Greece. In total, the Czech Republic should, on the basis of a proposal from the European Commission, adopt 1 328 Relocation Persons. On the same day, the European Commission also published a recommendation on the mechanism for resettlement of 20 thousand. refugees to the Member States of the European Union, where 525 people belong to the Czech Republic. The two mechanisms proposed by the European Commission are based on the redistribution key, which is created relatively on the basis of the following criteria: 40 per cent of the population is the size of the population, 40 per cent is the gross domestic product, the number of asylum applications or the resettlement of persons per million in the period 2010 to 2014 is 10 per cent and the unemployment rate is 10 per cent of this criterion. While the resettlement mechanism takes the form of a recommendation in the Commission's proposal and is voluntary, relocations are to be dealt with in the case of their establishment with the compulsory involvement of all Member States of the European Union, including the Czech Republic. I believe that this proposal, which I have just described to you, the European Commission does not respect the conclusions of the extraordinary April European Council, because at this meeting, the Member States agreed on voluntary redistribution mechanisms. Such a procedure by the European Commission is unacceptable for the Czech Republic and can also represent a dangerous precedent for the future. It is a question of why the European Council should meet at the level of democratically elected representatives of the Member States and adopt conclusions when the European Commission does not respect these conclusions. I recall that the European Commission's mandate is derived both from the European Council and from the European Parliament. The European Commission should therefore respect the conclusions of the European Council. The fact that there is such great differentiation is unacceptable for the Czech Republic is the European Commission's approach. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Czech Republic is intensively concerned with migration issues. As for the Commission's most discussed proposal, i.e. redistribution mechanisms, the position of the government of the Czech Republic is clear. We reject the quota system for the redistribution of migrants and the compulsory involvement of Member States in the schemes proposed by the European Commission. We insist that it must be national governments that have a chance to control migration flows to their countries and regulate them in the light of the economic, social and security situation. Unregulated migration flows, if they last too long, can decompose any state mechanism and any social system. The opinion of our government is that the Czech Republic will only participate in the proposed European relocation programme if it is a voluntary scheme. Otherwise, the Czech Republic cannot support this proposal from the European Commission. At the same time, honourable Members, it is necessary to realise that, in the face of the humanitarian and immigration crisis, we are not sufficient merely to reject this proposal from the European Commission. In support of our position, i.e. the maintenance of voluntary mechanisms, we will be ready to discuss at the European Council next week the possibilities of strengthening the solidarity activities of the Czech Republic. We will be ready to declare our willingness in the negotiations, but with that, and I place emphasis on that, separately and voluntarily outside the proposed programme. As regards the specific form of bilateral cooperation with Italy, Greece or Germany or Austria, this must be a question of our national decision. Such an approach is in line with the long-term position of the Czech Republic. We are trying to operate in a long-term solidarity and mitigate the consequences of the migration crisis. In recent years, we have taken a number of measures aimed at effective support and development for third countries, which are the source and transit countries of migration. Their purpose is to stabilise them and further develop them. In January this year, our government approved a programme to help refugees in regions of origin for which CZK 100 million will be released annually. For 2015, the region of the Middle East is primarily a priority in the context of the humanitarian crisis in Syria. We are assuming that this project will be renewed annually, according to the development of the situation it will also be possible to modify the amount we will provide for stabilisation in these regions. I would also like to remind you that the Czech Republic is involved in joint European development and protection programmes in third countries. In 2014, we participated in the implementation of the Middle East programme in Jordan and also in Lebanon and Iraq. We have provided absolutely specific financial contributions, and this year we will also be involved in the North Africa programme. Since 2008, the Czech Republic has also voluntarily engaged in resettlement activities through the concept of a national resettlement programme. I would like to remind you that in 2015, we decided to voluntarily relocate 15 Syrian families with injured or ill children from Jordan. There will be 70 people in total. [[19.10 hours]] Our other solidarity activities include a government scholarship programme for 20 Syrian refugees from Jordan at Czech public universities. I want to remind the ongoing humanitarian aid to refugees and internally displaced persons as a result of conflicts and major disasters. And I would also like to remind the MEDEVAC programme, which regularly sends the Czech Republic to regions facing large migratory waves, medical teams for the treatment of sick refugees on site. We are a country that is solidarity, we are a country that helps, and I want to make it clear that we are also a country that will help. But our goal is to set up a system of support and assistance in such a way as to address the causes of migration, not simply respond to its consequences. This is how our immigration policy is set up so far, and we want to debate within Europe that the European Union's policy is primarily set up in this way. A number of the issues raised here concerned asylum policy. I would like to briefly mention these rules now. The Czech Republic, as a member of the European Union, has committed itself, among other things, to cooperation in the field of asylum and refugeeism and, in accordance with these commitments, we must address every asylum application we receive. The Czech Republic, like any other state of the European Union, cannot choose the persons whose applications it will judge. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 43 of our Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. However, the rules for granting the national status of asylum seekers are determined by each state itself. The basic law in our country is the asylum law, the temporary protection law of foreigners. Although the Czech Republic is not the primary target country for foreigners from third countries today, it must respond to possible increased waves of refugee flows into the Czech Republic. Immigration and the influx of asylum seekers also have an important security aspect. In receiving refugees, it is necessary to place emphasis on minimizing security risks. In view of the events of the last few months, the Ministry of Interior has submitted a draft decree implementing the Asylum Act and the temporary protection of foreigners as a response to the deteriorating situation and as an effort to comply with its Union commitments. The problem is that the number of refugees applying for political asylum is currently rising. Member States, on the one hand, have limited capacity and, on the other hand, the overall integration of these people is more demanding than the adoption of legal migrants who come to the target country voluntarily for economic reasons. One of the objectives of legal migration is to promote economic migration, i.e. bring qualified foreign workers to the Czech Republic who are able to contribute to the development of the economy. It is our concern here, and I must say that it is part of the government's policy that people from countries that are culturally and religiously close come to us in particular, who have a chance of good and trouble-free integration. Our priority in this area is to minimise illegal migration and, at the same time, to make a clear distinction between those who meet the conditions for international protection. These people who meet the conditions for granting political asylum need to be separated from purely economic migrants. Political refugees must have a chance of helping us. For economic migrants, the possibilities and situation of individual countries must always be respected. There are no guaranteed rights for economic migration. So allow me to comment on the position of the Czech Republic on the measures proposed in response to the current migration situation. The Czech Republic is promoting the geographical balance of migration measures. We also note the need to address the situation not only in the Mediterranean Sea but also in other crisis areas. It is not possible to forget the situation in Ukraine, which has deteriorated economically significantly in recent years. It is not possible to forget the situation in the Western Balkans, where we also feel relatively strong instability in some countries. Another key element of the European Union's strategic approach must be effective management of external borders and strengthening their protection. The current crisis situation is a real threat to the functioning of the Schengen area. There are ideas that promote the revision of Schengen. The Czech Republic should submit its next steps to maintaining the free movement of persons within the European Union in full, as this is a key principle which is also very positive to our public. Better functioning of external borders, or better said, at least some functioning of external borders, because I think that the functioning of external borders has collapsed to a large extent at this point in Italy and Greece, at least some functioning of external borders should help us significantly in this respect. I want to stress that the European Union cannot function in the long term without being able to ensure the protection of its borders. Unfortunately, in Greece and Italy, this protection has largely collapsed. It collapsed under the pressure of a campaign organized by human trafficking and collapsed under the pressure of destabilization of countries located in the immediate vicinity of the European Union. Such a state of border protection is unacceptable and impossible for the long-term functioning of the Schengen system. I believe that if rules are not respected throughout the Schengen area, this may sooner or later lead to a collapse of Schengen area. What is also important is that the European Union and individual states do not underestimate the criminal aspects of what we are experiencing. Criminal aspects, because this is very often also about business. That is why it is important that there be enhanced cooperation between the police, the justice ministries in individual countries in the fight against smugglers, against human traffickers. These networks are hitting a large part of Europe. It is not only networks organised in Libya, but it is also networks organised today in Italy or the Western Balkans, and it is important that there be coordinated cooperation here in the fight against those who have made migration profitable, very profitable and simple trade. The European Union must rethink the current return practice. Either return practice doesn't exist at all, or it's inefficient. Many refugees come to Europe whose asylum application is not motivated by the immediate need for protection, but by access to living standards and social benefits in some Member States. That is why I say it is important for every state to be able to regulate economic migration. As regards the relocation or relocation mechanisms already mentioned. As I mentioned, we insist that they remain on a voluntary basis. It's not a solution to the cause, it's an effect. Quotas can, paradoxically, act as an invitation to the EU and as an encouragement to organised crime of smugglers. I believe that the problems of African and Middle East countries cannot simply be addressed by moving their population or their more active elites to the European Union in bulk. In these countries such an exodus will necessarily lead to their further degradation, to their further lag behind, which will only further spin the migration spiral. The proposed quotas are therefore a non-systemic step. They will not bring a solution to migration pressure, they will bring its distraction, which may relieve some Member States, but this can only be an illusion, because if the quotas are used for countries that are not the main targets for migration, they will not remain in them and will be directed equally to countries that provide much greater social benefits. However, unexpected pressure will be created on the capacity of other Member States, including the Czech Republic. A high and unexpected supply of migrants to Europe may further trigger an increase in antagonism according to ethnic and religious keys. We must not forget that the proposed redistribution system within the framework of the current common rules will in no way prevent people who receive asylum on the basis of relocation from heading to completely different countries than those in which they have obtained such asylum. The Czech Republic will in no way renounce its solidarity responsibility. I think this is evident from the list of measures we have already taken. We helped and we are willing to help on a voluntary basis. We are well aware that we cannot close our eyes to reality. We must reject the spread of hatred against refugees, because it can very often only be ammunition in an attempt to gain some political points, but at the same time, a redistribution system cannot be established, which will result in even worse consequences. [[19.20 hours]] What can be the way forward? We believe that it is important to bring the EU debate back to a rational level. The principle of solidarity and accountability needs to be balanced; it is necessary to offer a credible alternative, not only to countries that are burdened with migration flows at the moment, but also to countries that are the sources of these migration waves today. I would also like to mention the fact that, on the basis of the changes that have taken place around Europe, as well as the changes that have taken place in our labour market, the government is preparing a new migration policy strategy, and I assume that this migration policy strategy will also be a subject of a broad debate, as is the end of the matter of foreign policy and security policy. honourable Members, I want to assure you that the Government of the Czech Republic will take a position at the European Council meeting, which is in line with the recommendation of the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies on European Affairs. As I was able to get acquainted with the motion for a resolution prepared for today's House of Deputies, the government is ready to move within the House of Deputies' position if this proposal is approved. However, I would like to point out that this will undoubtedly be important in the next European Council meeting, but it will certainly not be the last European Council meeting to address this issue. I therefore propose that the Government remain in intensive contact with Parliament, particularly through the Committee on European Affairs, where information should be discussed on how the Government is progressing on this matter in relation to the proposals and rules of the European Union, and, of course, if there is any significant change in the rules at European level, I am ready to inform Parliament and I am also prepared to report on the steps that the Government will take in response to possible adjustments to the rules of the European Union. So much, then, of the report I submitted at the request of the Members' Clubs, which initiated this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u11	Thank you to the Prime Minister and please to the microphone of Minister Chovanec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u12	Madam President, honourable Members, the Ministry of the Interior has prepared material for today's meeting, where there is a lot of important information for your orientation. There are some figures accompanying migration policy, and many have been said by the Prime Minister. Allow me, then, just a few comments, and most importantly, to inform you about the meeting of the Interior Ministers within the European Union, which was held in Luxembourg. I would like to remind you here that it was the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, who first responded with its resolution to quotas. It was at a time when quotas were mentioned in the rounds in Brussels, they were spoken very carefully. I mentioned at the time that there was also a referendum for the introduction of quotas in the Czech Republic. Even then, the Czech government responded and our European partners knew from us even before they formulated their position, i.e. to the so-called mandatory quotas, that the position of the Czech government was rejected on this matter. We're continuous. We're always saying the same message to Europe. When I was at the meeting of the Interior Ministers in Luxembourg, the message from us was simple. We are ready to help, we are solidarity, we accept refugees in our territory. Last year over 1,200 people applied for international protection, 370 received international protection. They have undergone a standard European procedure, European legislation and have been granted residence asylum. We're not a closed country. On the other hand, we have made it clear that we would like the message to be multi-directional. The first clear message to the public in the Member States: the issue of migration is also a matter of internal security. That's a question we take very seriously, we don't want to underestimate it, and we won't underestimate it. The second is a message to the criminals. We are currently in a regular confrontation, in a regular war with the mob that smuggles people in, smuggles people in for pay, and we face the consequences of the activities of these criminal elements. That's the second message. The message is simple for them. We're gonna dive your ships, we're gonna look for the money you have and you're gonna keep it in European banks, we're gonna confiscate it, and we're gonna just, we're not gonna leave you alone. What you're doing, we don't approve of, what you're doing, we're gonna punish. That's the second message. A third message must be sent clearly by Europe to migrants who come to the European continent without having a chance to obtain asylum. Sixty per cent of existing migrants are those who are not entitled to asylum under European law. We must make it clear to them that they do not have a chance to hold on to them in Europe, that we will return them. It has several accompanying questions, and this is a change in the legislation of the European Union. That's what we were discussing, and that's where we want to change. It is not possible for us to really fail in the framework of the Readmis, in the context of return, to return migrants who are clearly economic migrants. Another debate that we have had is the debate that there is talk of incoming people from Greece, there is talk of incoming people from Italy, there is little talk of a new way through Hungary. Over Hungary, 55,000 refugees came to Europe last year. Part of them were Kosovo Albánec, but the people of Syria were already there, and the people of Iraq were already there. Even there, a new current was created. Hungary is responding to this today by building a fence. Of course, we need to debate transit countries, Nigeria. We are going to have a very difficult debate with someone in Libya. And in this plenary, if you recall, I informed the House about the situation in Kurdistan about four months after the meeting with the Kurdish Interior Minister in the framework of the interpellation. That's not much to talk about. The Kurdish Autonomous Region is one of the last military entities to defend the Islamic State. There is an autonomous Kurdish region between NATO's ally Turkey and the Islamic State. Kurdistan currently has four and a half million inhabitants, and at that time it had 1.4 million refugees in its territory. I also told our partners in the European Union, the ministers of the interior, that there are over 3 billion people in the world today who suffer from poverty. This Europe has no chance of simply accepting them all. That means we are ready to help those who need international protection, those who are at risk of death, but not those who come to the rich social systems of our neighbours. Because the flows that are going through Hungary today, and these are the Kosovo Albánec primarily when you are talking to our partners in Kosovo, let's say with the Minister of the Interior or with other members of the government, and you ask why these people come from relatively safe Kosovo to Europe, to the European Union, they say: this is clearly the problem of the very rich social systems provided by Germany, Austria and other countries. On the questions that have fallen here - the Schengen border. I told Home Secretary that we were from a state that had a dictatorship, that freedom of movement was a high value to us, one of the highest. That we do not like to see the debate that Schengen should end, should be dismantled, and that we will, above all, be reluctant to resist the dismantling of Dublin. That is what Italy and Greece are calling for today to end the Dublin system. The Dublin system means that a migrant who comes into the territory of the European Union is to be registered in the first country to enter. If Dublin were to end, we cannot return those migrants to the countries they came to us today, whether it be Austria, whether it be Germany, whether it be other countries. Dublin is of high value to us and to us. That's the debate we had there. We have legitimately given our position, the attitude is to the extent that I have just told you here, it was exactly in the context of the mandate that I received from the government to present there. With regard to the possibility of increasing the security of the Czech Republic, I dealt with the Police President the day before yesterday, yesterday and today went to the Regional Directors and we are starting to increase not the border security, but to increase the intensity of checks on trains arriving from Hungary, on some selected roads and roads in border areas. I'm not gonna specify which ones, because I don't want to talk to those who want to use them. But know that the Czech police have now increased the intensity of controls precisely to respond to the situation that arose in Austria, Hungary and other countries. When you look at the short-term restrictions and increase in controls at the border between Germany and Austria and Germany and the Czech Republic, it was in the context of the G7 summit that this short-term measure had a significant impact on the migration situation in Austria and Hungary. [[19.30 hours]] It is clear that if free movement is limited across its internal borders in any Member State, this means impact on the surrounding countries. We fear that if we say yes to mandatory quotas, that it will be an invitation for other people to come, other migrants, and that if we want to prevent people from drowning on ships in the Mediterranean today, that this is an invitation for more ships. That's why we're defending ourselves. We're not xenophobic. There are a lot of foreigners living in the Czech Republic. On the other hand, we must also defend our interests. Our interests are definitely those to keep us here extreme movements. [[unintelligible]] These are also some of the issues referred to by the IOOZ in its report towards migration. So certainly help those who need it within European values, but also protect our interests and internal security. This is what we talked about in Luxembourg. One last question to Mrs Němcová through Madam President. The debate at the Castle was primarily triggered by discussions with the President on the introduction of certain measures to increase the security of the Prague Castle, and the debate on migration was complementary. So it wasn't that I went to inform the President and didn't want to inform you. It was an additional debate that arose on the basis of the President's invitation to strengthen the security of the Prague Castle before any attack. Thank you for your attention and I'm ready to continue to answer for today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u13	Thank you to the Minister and please to the microphone of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u14	Yes, thank you. Good evening to you. In fact, quite a lot has been said, so let me say something more about what did not fall here and what concerns the foreign policy dimension. The question that probably comes to mind by a lot of people is when it ends or how we stop it and if it can be stopped. So if you ask yourself how to stop it, you're going to have to look at where the resources are, where the root of the problem is, and if there's anything we can do about it. It is generally said because, of course, it is said - we must focus on the causes and engage in those countries that are the source of the problems. And I just want to show a little bit in my performance why we can't deal with the resources so easily, because the problem is based quite deep. I will now refrain from criticizing in the report or in the European Commission's proposal, in a letter that we wrote together with the Slovák, Maďar and Slovenians, that the proposal is not geographically balanced, so we pointed out that the problem of migration is not only linked to the south, that it is also linked specifically to the Western Balkans, but the Prime Minister and the Interior Minister have already spoken about it, and also that it is potentially connected with Ukraine, where there are almost one and a half migrants who, at the time when the Ukrainian government stopped paying them their contributions, can also be moved. [[A million?]] And that's something to think about, too. In addition to the fact that we need to realise this more geographically balanced, the fundamental problem, which is acutely now, is, of course, linked to resources in the south. And on that point, I would like to make a point that seems important to me. Because actually, in the south, we're facing two fundamental crises. So not one crisis, but two. The first one is the one related to Syria and Iraq, or the so-called Islamic State. The other is sub-Saharan Africa. Now let me say something about the first one. I think that's quite the key to the whole problem. I mean, when I talk about the so-called Islamic state, there's a feeling that it's some kind of terrorist group, maybe bigger than we're used to, probably better equipped, even talking about sources of funding, and it seems to us that we've suddenly grown up something that's a little bit bigger than we used to, but it's actually a criminal terrorist group, and that's what we should be dealing with, maybe by finding some kind of power or putting it together, attacking and dealing with it somehow. And there are even such suggestions that we can simply assemble an army or some kind of force, whether aviation or whatever, and just attack the source. It's not just that it's not militaryly simple. The point is, there's no understanding of the problem. Apparently, what we're dealing with here isn't the discovery of one terrorist group. The basic problem is probably that there is a major two-block confrontation in the whole region, and that is Shia and Sunni. That's what's actually going through this conflict across the border of states, and what's causing it to have a much wider base. And that's where the understanding of the whole thing is hidden. That's why it's not so easy to attack somewhere and destroy some terrorist group because the problem really has very deep roots. From this point of view, what really happened in 2003 was the invasion of Iraq. Although I'd like to say here that I don't think it's that without the invasion, things must have evolved differently. Personally, I suspect that something like this would probably happen under other circumstances, even if it weren't for Iraq. I don't know. I'm not a prognostic. But, of course, from the point of view of what it said, and not only was the invasion unfortunate in 2003, it was necessary that politics then focused on supporting Nurí Málikí's policy, which de facto made the Iraqi army 100% Shia's group. And the 100% Shia group, and the fact that Iraq wasn't actually created like this as an inclusive state, but as a Shia state, gradually led the Sunni to run, and eventually they ran for help to Syria, actually to the so-called emerging Islamic state. In the end, Sunni people in Iraq live either under the so-called Islamic State or in refugee camps. Do you understand? The problem is that today what feeds the conflict is that there are two blocks that are preparing for the final reckoning. And that this isn't about some terrorist group, but that even the so-called Islamic State is becoming more and more like a real state. Like an Arab state, not like the one we know in Europe. That means he's not really living off the money he's gonna get from the women's business that's big. I always give the example when the Prime Minister at Erbil told me "I bought 200 women today to save them." That's where these shops are held regularly in bulk. Or that he gets them from monuments that he occasionally spectacularly destroys to raise the price and then fill the antique store in Baghdad as well as in Dubai. These are traditional sources. The oil was disrupted to some extent by air raids. But he has other sources today, completely normal collection of all kinds of taxes and taxes. These structures have simply de facto evolved into roughly the level of countries operating in Arab countries. Today, even scholars say that the difference between how the so-called Islamic State and some other Arab countries operate is no longer great. Do you understand? And why it could - it's not just some terrorist organization. This is something that has far deeper basic ideas. I'm saying this here because if we want to ask ourselves when it's gonna end, this really can't be destroyed by some kind of attack or some sort of concentrated invasion or something like that, because that would get us involved in something that we just don't have a chance to get out of. [[19.40 hours]] It's like you want to join Libya today, which seems to be only 8 million inhabitants, not the tens that are elsewhere. But if we were to put together this 500,000-dollar army that they say is a condition, you'd find that in that space you don't know exactly who to join and who to support, because they're a little bit of myth that tells us that one group is better than the other. Do you understand? That's totally relative. And that is why such an action is very difficult, and that is why it is also an illusion to think that we are probably able to develop a strategy in a short time, which we would be able to fundamentally change in the place where the crisis is actually coming from. We are unable to release a substitute government in that space that would rule as we wish. You see, we are unable to understand even possibly the conflicts that actually fuel the crisis that is currently there. So it's no use in this sense just to repeat the mantra, which is of course important and we often hear that Islam is a religion of peace, because we have here today a concrete example of something that wants to say to the caliphate and which is definitely not a religion of peace, a body that presents Islam in a completely violent and aggressive way. And that, of course, is a challenge to the Muslim world to deal with this in some way, and it is also a challenge to the Arab world to respond to it. And that's what I'm saying when-- you understand, I repeat, in this problem or in this crisis, it's not that we would have the ability to put together a force that we're going to negotiate order. This must be the Arab countries themselves who have to respond in some way to this challenge. And that is true even of the consequences of the crisis. If there are thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of refugees who are the result of the crisis, then I consider it legitimate to address e.g. those rich Gulf states and tell them that they should be involved in the significant means they have to deal with, for example, the problem of those who live in those refugee camps. I can't quite imagine that we think it's automatic, that these runaways are just gonna fall from this world into a Europe that's gonna build camps and try to... I think that here is the primary responsibility of the Arab world, which, after all, is in the division of those religious blocs actually the one who creates the ground for the conflict, and I don't think we can solve it ourselves. We're able to help, we're able to find a way to face it, but we can't solve it. Because obviously we're not facing something that's just an eruption, but it's a problem at least medium-term, and unfortunately, we're going to have to learn to live with it. You know, it's not a matter of action. This is a situation with which we will have to learn to exist. That space isn't gonna change easily. I told you here that the blocks almost still seem to be coming together to some imaginary last battle that we're talking about in mythology. That's why I don't think there's an easy way out of this, and there's not even some simple recipe that we could invent, and then we applied it in that space. So this is the first crisis. And the other one, it's actually a stream of refugees from sub-Saharan Africa, and it also has its own logic, which is different. You know that experts say that a great reason for this is the need for advancing desertification, or the advancing desert in the Sahel region, is that these are also factors that make the livelihood in the Saharan belt worse and that the inhabitants are moving there. The factors there are probably more, we could go one state from another, but the result is that it is another crisis and another wave of refugees that are pushing on the Mediterranean coast. I believe that this situation has not come about today, it has actually taken a long time, and it is certainly a mistake that Europe has failed to develop and prepare a strategy capable of facing this. The first thing that strategy should have had in it was what has already fallen from the mouth of the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary, and that is the protection of Europe's external borders. I think that's a very important thing. Do not think that Europe is a fortress. Europe was perhaps the most open formation in the world when you take the number of people coming to it and staying here. The situation suddenly revealed that Europe in this is so open to the continent that it accepts everything and all in a way that we cannot manage today. And I think there have been big mistakes, because operation Mare nostrum, which, although in the first base, responded naturally and only humanly possible that they simply saved drowning, but the other thing about what to do with them, how to deal with them, where to put them, there I think it was completely unthinkable. Instead of knowing that it's vital to build some transit camps, I don't know, in Tunis, Egypt, and elsewhere, the refugees in question just started driving to Europe and thus creating an offer for all the crooks, traders, organized crime that made it a business that makes billions of euros today. It's proven today that it's become this octopus. And all of a sudden, these rescue actions look like a link to a chain that someone else is making money on. I think that's the strategic flaws. Instead of creating a policy in time that would actually protect the external border, which de facto means that abuse, for example, will be avoided. that principle of political asylum - because, as the Minister said here, 60 percent of this title of political asylum is being abused - and instead of actually making asylum policy in some place, let's say the asylum procedure was applied to those who are actually fleeing persecution are threatened existentially, and it differs from those who are fleeing for economic reasons. Because we in Europe have the right to make decisions about these things. It is not that we have to let everyone who comes into Europe. I consider this to be something of the law of the European continent. We can be open as we can, and we can lay down the rules under which we will accept them and, if not, implement repatriation in those procedures that concern economic immigrants. But the return policy is completely collapsed today, she doesn't exist. When someone tells you to take those when you return them, it's not true, we know it doesn't work. In fact, the protection of the external border fell apart today, and that is actually the failure of European politics. And I am not saying that as someone who just wants to criticize Europe, but I am simply stating the facts, something that we need to change, because that is the assumption that we can cope with the situation at all. So I am just worried - and at least briefly I have tried to suggest - that what we are facing here is not crises that can be eliminated in a short time, and even we in Europe have limited opportunities to remove them at the core, where these crises are taking place, and we need to develop strategies that will be able to learn to live with these instability points, the areas of instability that I don't think can be consolidated from here and guarantee them good governance, etc. This does not mean that we do not need to seek partners in North Africa, in Africa sub-Saharan, stable countries that can significantly help us stabilize. But I don't think it's good to imagine that we're able to change the situation in a short time. On the contrary, we need to build policies in Europe that will lead to a situation that will not go over our heads and lead to what the Prime Minister has also suggested here that if we cannot do this, the common European space, from which the Czech Republic basically lives, may actually fall apart. For a country like the Czech Republic, it's a living space, which is actually why we're supposed to be standing here in the form and level that is here today. So, let me just say that there's no such thing as a foreign policy warning that there's no simple cure, and it's not the right idea that some well-built army that sets a good goal is capable of solving what's going on in North Africa or sub-Saharan Africa. This is a problem that's been going on for a long time, and that's how it needs to be understood. And the Czech Republic must have ambition to become part of a solution to a European strategy that will help us to cope with it. I'm sorry I spoke so difficult so late, but thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u15	I thank you and ask for a microphone with Mr Schwarzenberg's priority right, and then Mrs Černochová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u16	Madam President, honourable Members, when one watched the Czech media, statements, whether from different politicians or in the pub, I have sometimes come to the impression that there is indeed a refugee camp between Kaplicí and Budějovice, with an expanse of 200,000 refugees, and another 300 thousand at Znojmo, and somewhere in front of Břeclav, militants of the Islamic State are lurking on the Austrian side. I'm pointing out one thing, and that's my life experience. The worst mentor in any situation, and I admit that today's situation is serious and difficult, is fear. Fear of refugees, fear of asylumants, fear of foreign element in our Czech boiler. I would ask you very much to maintain a sober procedure in this, yes, I admit, very serious situation. Each generation of recent times has faced a great challenge. Our grandfathers faced the challenge of national socialism or Nazism, our fathers faced the challenge of communist totalitarianism, and today, perhaps, we will challenge our generation, facing the challenge of this migration around the world. The Foreign Minister rightly noted that he has long lacked a European migration strategy. But did we create our own Czech? I miss this one a long time ago. I've even talked about this here in the House several times, that this is the most necessary to create our own approach to migration. That migration will be, and as the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other ministers rightly said, this problem will take years to fly, even decades. And we're not gonna solve it with bans. We really need to approach this with a strategy on how to deal with this problem. And don't think that we can move the solution to Europe. We need to find our own strategy. We must find a solution for our country ourselves. Once again, compared to many other countries in the European Union, we are very well on the subject of migration. There are no great currents coming to us, not to mention Greece and Italy. Let's say Sweden faces a much bigger wave of migration than we do. We have the opportunity to really develop our own strategy, to think about what we will do and what would be possible and beneficial for our country in the future. Once again, fear is the worst counselor. We must today face a challenge that is great, but that will prove our generation of politicians, or it will fail and fail, as we have sometimes failed in the past. So please approach this soberly, to know that the situation is serious, and not to be afraid and not to be afraid of anything foreign. At the end of the day, every nation and great-grandfather of Čechy migrated once before he arrived at Říp. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u17	I thank you and please to the microphone of Mrs Černochová, after which Mr Černoch will be prepared. It's all priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u18	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Before the last post, I wanted to say with satisfaction that, more or less, with everything besides the interpretation of Prime Minister Sobotka, who seeks the causes in the Arab Spring, with everything that was said here until the last post, I could personally sign and agree with that. About what the Prime Minister said. Maybe just for his information. If the government of the Czech Republic and the coalition given by this government in the Chamber of Deputies were willing to place this point, as we asked for it in a Grimary meeting, the Prime Minister could have acted as one of the first, because he would have been a plaintiff. By rejecting this procedure, the government coalition had no choice but to apply for this item on the agenda, and therefore it is quite logical, Prime Minister, and I am surprised that after so many years of sitting in the Chamber of Deputies, you do not know that Mrs Němcová is the first to appear as the second Mr Ženíšek, as the third Mr Černoch, because they state this point as the appellants. If you had wanted to include this program, you, as members of the government coalition, we could have saved this invective here at the outset. I think there's been a lot going on here. I don't want to repeat myself. I would also like to give room to others who cannot exercise their priority right to perform. Perhaps I would just say something that I discovered on servers today, and I would very much like government representatives to look into it within their respective competences, whether there is really any violation of any rights in the Czech Republic as well. On the Internet on the website of Security magazine, who discovered this fact, appeared the following thing. The translation please is free, you can verify what you know, German, French, English it in original. So let me introduce you to the text that Security magazine discovered today. We welcome all passengers on their difficult journey and wish them all a good journey. No, it's not a travel agency ad, but that's how she welcomes web w2eu.info illegal immigrants. This server provides very valuable information for refugees on their way to and through Europe, including advice beyond the borders of the law. It has long been speculated whether the current wave of refugees, particularly from North Africa, is managed and supported by someone. I think this article, which I recommend to everyone to read, also confirms my belief that it does. The immigrant manual, which offers asylum advisory services, contacts and how they should behave to go through this Skylla and Charybda - not borders, but possible controls. The official server of the Greek island of Lesbos has provided information that illegal immigrants with enough money will receive a gift from Turkish smugglers in the form of a guide on how to enforce their rights in the territory of individual European states. People's traders are said to be asking for two to five thousand euros per head for a manual. Information, respectively. non-governmental non-profit agencies, charities, various community associations are listed in contacts in different European countries. Private lawyers are offered services. I'm very interested to know if any of our nonprofit organizations are involved. I also wonder if the Ministry of the Interior knows about these activities, whether this will also be dealt with in some way within Frontex. Information for immigrants is broken down by country of the European Union. They describe in detail the conditions for granting asylum, but also, for example, how they should behave and avoid. Security magazine selected for illustration as the destination of refugees in neighbouring Austria. Police controls are most often on trains, public places, streets, squares, as well as at traffic hubs such as railway stations. Although there are strict controls in Austria, some migrants can cross Austria into another country. [[20.00 hours]] In Austria, there are independent NGOs providing legal aid. But be aware that the Austrian Human Rights Association, which works in refugee camps, has close ties to the government and has no interest in helping you get asylum. You better contact one of these NGOs, there are anti-racist groups in Austria that are trying to support migrants, but their resources are limited. If you seek asylum, the first thing the police will find out is whether you have been to another country of the European Union before. Therefore, if you have not been fingerprinted before, do not carry coins, train tickets from another country, so that this is not used as evidence for non-adventure asylum. Austria did not stop deportation to Greece; single men over 18 years of age are at risk. If you are in danger of deportation to Greece, you must appeal immediately to the European Court of Human Rights. That's the only way you can stop deportation. You have to react quickly. Before submitting an application for asylum, it is best to inform contact lawyers on our website. You must make it clear that you are asking for asylum and repeat it again if you are transferred to another police officer or to another department. If you apply for asylum to the police, count on your luggage being searched not only for security reasons, but also in order to find documents and evidence that you have come to Austria. Therefore, it is very, very important that you have no proof - train tickets, money, etc. - which would suggest that you were in other countries of the European Union. Do not ignore official letters, and once you have a decision, try to get a lawyer or one of the NGOs. If your application is approved, you will be able to work and gain access to social care. There is a number of similar information for refugees on the web. I don't want to keep going. I would just say that I am actually not surprised that the Human Rights Minister Dienstbier, who - if you remember correctly, all fellow Members - wanted through the government, and I thank Minister Chovanc for stopping it, is not here today to present the wonderful idea that refugees with counterfeit passports could move across Europe completely with impunity - so that their control is exactly in the spirit that other non-profit organizations here recommend on their website. I think that my colleague Miroslava Němcová has said very clearly here from the Civil Democratic Party, and I very much appreciate the fact that the Civil Democratic Party can be the party that has had its views on migration policy completely consistent for years. European Members and Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic vote united on these issues, not as members of the government coalition, who assure us of something here, but as soon as they leave the border - in quotation marks - the Czech Republic and reach Brussels, they proceed in a completely different way and vote contrary to what our government coalition is saying here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u19	I'm sorry, colleague, and I'm going to ask my colleagues not to interrupt your speech by whistling and all that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u20	Mr. Colleague, please try not to whistle at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u21	Madam, I can handle this. Thank you. So I'm gonna ask you to be calm so that your colleague can finish her speech in peace. I ask that we refrain from these speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u22	Thank you. You know, I'm from the old school, and I'm not even 17, so I didn't turn around and I didn't react when a man ever whistled at me in a car, so please don't let anyone try this on me at my 42 years of age, even at the House of Deputies. Thank you. [[Fun in the hall.]] So to finish what I said. The Civil Democratic Party has one opinion. The opinion held for years, and I believe that other parties in this Chamber of Deputies will conclude that there must be a clear equality between integration and immigration. Because otherwise, it's gonna be wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u23	I'll thank you and ask for Mr. Černoch's microphone. Then the Vice-President of the House of Gazdík, then Minister Stropnický, will be prepared with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u24	Have a good evening again. Thank you for the floor. I must say that from the Prime Minister's speech and the two ministers - so I must commend Minister Chovanec for his approach, for his words. Unfortunately, with the Prime Minister, it was a very long debate, which I think was not understood and could not be understood at all. And with the Foreign Minister Zaorálek - I agree with that, of course, but there is one problem, and the problem is that at the moment we pointed out that this situation is starting to happen, everyone was just laughing at us and everyone was saying that there is no such problem. Since the beginning of the House within the Committee on European Affairs, within the Council of Europe, we have been drawing attention to this problem. And when one sees how, for example, the Council of Europe is acting, how it responds to this problem, when it really only deals with whether it is drowning or not, it doesn't really solve how it happens. What happens? Unfortunately, those truly organized mafia ships are sinking themselves today just to play the EU's emotions. That there are cases, and that's not a case that's somewhere on social media, it's a documented case that these people are able to throw little kids off ships just because they know the coast guard that's haunting them, they're gonna stop and, of course, they're gonna save those kids, and they're gonna go somewhere in the meantime. So it's a situation that we're up against someone who doesn't play fair who doesn't and doesn't respect any rules. And the minute we proceed in this way, we're still going to argue about how to proceed, what to do, we're going to lose this fight. Unfortunately, it's true. I would just like to ask specific questions and whether it would be possible to answer specific questions. The situation is really somewhere else today than it was a year ago. As has been said here, the increase is huge, compared to last year by almost 270, or even 277 percent. I don't know exactly. The moment it doesn't stop, and it was said that there is actually no system yet to stop it, so if it goes on like this, next year there will be far more of these people, it will really be hundreds of thousands, and the European Union, the Czech Republic will simply not be able to deal with this problem. With regard to the reports that are coming, there are already reports that if nothing changes, if the situation is not resolved, the European social system will collapse. It's not just the social system. It's a security system, it's a health system. Because these people are coming - they're not vaccinated, they're coming, they have diseases that we're not ready for. Unfortunately, that's the reality, and now, of course, we're not just talking about Ebola and similar diseases, but about a lot of other diseases that we're just not ready for. Systems are being implemented here, when people are crossing the mat, they have to fill out questionnaires on airplanes, where they come from, if they're flying from Africa, quarantines, etc., and then hundreds of thousands of people are coming today who aren't under any control. Nor will they be when they cross EU borders. I would just very much like to ask Minister Chovanec and the Prime Minister how we will respond and how we will defend ourselves or whether we are able to defend ourselves against this at all. Because I also agree that we are used to free movement in the EU today, the Schengen area, the open Schengen area. But this situation simply requires some reaction, and unfortunately, if there are no other ways and principles to address it - perhaps even temporary border closure, of course, if the situation continues to escalate. I would very much like to ask the question whether the Czech Government will accept the mandatory quotas that are mentioned if they are ordered by the European Union. And if it does not accept, then if the system is ready and if solutions are prepared for possible sanctions, which, of course, would occur on the part of the European Union. [[20.10 hours]] The next question is whether the Czech Government is ready to protect the citizens of the Czech Republic in case the situation really starts escalating even more. She's already critical. But let's face it, if it would still escalate, even the possibility for a temporary period, until this situation has somehow improved, closed or really severely guarded borders, especially the southern border of the Czech Republic. One of the questions is because there really are a lot of people who come in here, and I think it's very hard to tell who's a asylumant, who's an economic immigrant. As soon as they reach the European Union, and Italy is not really handling it, just like Greece, if we are able to distinguish these people in any way in this regard. And where there is a need, when people run away from the war or they are women, children, so of course the Czech Republic helps them. And I think the Czech Republic as a solidarity state is one of the best in the world. In the event of any disasters, any natural disasters, it is the Čech who first send money, who first send rescue corps. But we will definitely, definitely not accept, we will not give asylum, we will not put ourselves at risk, we will not put citizens of the Czech Republic at risk, that huge groups of people will simply come here who do not want to integrate. These people just don't care about integration. France has its experience with this. Germany also has experience with this. As has been said, this is no longer the only way. There are more ways. So these people are going to receive, they're going to create ghettos, they're going to create communities that can make it so much easier to hide people who are directly connected to terrorist organizations, they can really be sleeping cells. According to information which, of course, is not verified, it is now about 6,000 people, at least, who have some connection to terrorist organisations in Europe. These people will become one huge problem. And, as has been said here by Mrs Černochová, if she is the Human Rights Minister, what we have, who proposes human rights in a slightly reversed direction, if there is a Mrs Cernoch, who defends a minority against the Czech citizens, then we can expect that this situation will only be worse and worse. We're really coming over, and it's not xenophobia, it's not racism. On the contrary, I don't think I should have those feelings with my name as a Černoch guy. I have a lot of friends with different skin colors. I have a lot of friends who have other beliefs. But this situation that's now, it's a situation that's never been here. And I think that the moment that really closes their eyes, waiting, as Minister Zaorálek said, for politicians or politicians to solve this problem in the future, may mean five, ten years in the future, but we are dealing with the problem that is now here. I think we're supposed to deal with it without closing our eyes before setting the rules at this point. It is the European Union in general. Unfortunately, radically in the sense of return policy, in the sense of not accepting those people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u25	Thank you and I'll ask Mr. Vice-President of the House of Petr Gazdík for the microphone. Minister Stropnický will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u26	Good evening, dear colleagues. I am very pleased that we can solve the immigration problem on this soil, and I am very pleased that we are dealing with it thoroughly. They're testifying that I'm going after a fellow Černoch man. The Prime Minister has overwhelmed us with a rather detailed description of the events we already know. I expected rather a very brief but clear formulation, the position of the Czech government, which the Czech government intends to hold. All the more I thank the Minister of the Interior for the rather clear position he has told us, Minister Zaorálek, for an excursion into some broader international context. I won't repeat and I won't be a verbal masochist, I won't repeat what we've already heard here and what I think most of us think. I'll try to look at it more from what hasn't come out yet. Let us please make it clear, briefly and without historical excursions: Yes, we have a moral obligation to help refugees from countries affected by war. We have experienced two totalitarian regimes, and our people have also gone to the West. However, we do not have a duty to help immigrants who only go for a better life dependent on social benefits. Whoever thinks otherwise should not say unaddressed: Europe is supposed to help. Let him say: I XY, I Jan Novák, I Petr Gazdík am willing to give up a fifth, a quarter, half of my salary and I want to give them to immigrants. I remind you that in the time of Nečasův' government, there were trade union demonstrations against, for example, higher food stamps taxation. I can't physically imagine anyone actually willing to do something like this today. I say for myself, I'd be happy to do it. And I call on everyone who wants to do this, let them not rely on the European Union to begin with. Minister Chovanec and Mrs Černochová made it quite clear in what she read that one of the problems of European civilization is very rich social systems. Yes, these people come to very rich social systems. And it's our duty to do everything we can to keep those social systems from being abused. But as a right-wing person, I know that every redistribution, every one, will always lead to partial abuse. [[with emphasis]] The position of the Czech Government is that it negotiates on a level: not quotas, but we voluntarily accept someone. I ask: Why do we want to provide help in Europe? Shouldn't we rather provide direct assistance in the countries where the immigrants come from? Minister Zaorálek said another thing: Let us address the rich Arab states. They're well-connected. And here in these two things, I miss the Czech government, and that's the action. That is why I want to ask frankly: Prime Minister, ministers, what exactly did the Czech Government do? What diplomatic activity has led us to address specific Arab states, with the help of charitable organizations in agreement, in a joint agreement in the European Union, to try to build, for example, a refugee camp or a rescue system right in the countries where these people are leaving? It will be much more effective - for one euro spent in Europe immigrants will get much less than for one euro provided in the North of Africa. We will stop the growing social tensions, for example, of those countries that now host immigrants. We will stop the mafia business that transports refugees across the sea to Europe. It is precisely this position that I would like the Czech Government to actively propose that, given the totalitarian past that the Czech Republic unfortunately has, that it should be active and that the European Council should, in some way, propose a specific action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u27	Thank you and please Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. [[Mrs Němcová reports that she has a factual point.]] The debate is not yet open, Madame. There's still priority rights. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of things that have been said here, and I am certainly not going to go into repeating or parasite any of this. I'm just going to limit myself to saying that I agree with a number of these opinions. And I still feel the need to express the fact that I see some consistency in the most important of all. I think it is extremely valuable that we are definitely all concerned about the fact that even those paths to a solution are not completely diametrically different from each other, and I think that it is very important and that we should keep it as long as possible on this subject. [[20.20 hours]] Now a few comments not directly from the Minister or the Ministry of Defence, because if that were the case, it would be really serious. Immigration. It fell here, but I can't forgive myself. So they're at least four categories, I'd say. It's the humanitarian one, that's about the category where tradition and mutuality are something Europeanly obvious. Then there is the political one, which I dare call relatively very small in the situation that we now have to face. Then it's the economic one, and then it's the terrorist one. And I am sometimes embarrassed by the various statements of European politicians, where the differences are, I think, greatly underestimated, and I see one of the fundamental dangers. And then there's the store. It's over, too. It's hard to come up with such a long debate with something piercing original. But this isn't about originality. That aspect of business is startling. We all know it, we all know it's a billion-dollar business, it's human smuggling. There may have been some interesting information from Mrs Černochová - through you, Madam Vice-President - about these services, say, including legal and some sort of guides almost. But there's also a very interesting fact that so-called. The Islamic State lives mainly from resources in conquered territories. And that's, if I simplify it to one commodity, it's, for example, oil. The oil has to get out of that country somehow. The oil runs in tanks. The oil goes to neighboring states. These neighboring states are some of our allies. One, maybe. It's quite interesting that this is actually unsolvable at this point, and yet it's one of the keys to weakening the Islamic State. Because in one direction, trucks drive oil and food in the opposite direction. And we pretend it's not. We kind of pretend it's not. So there's a lot of questions. Help in a place that is so often spoken of. Yes, if it were that easy, I'm sure it would have happened a long time ago. But it's really hard to find partners on the spot and make it happen. In the general sense, in the general sense, of course. It's much harder in practice. But, of course, you have to try. Schengen is one of the main achievements of the European Union. I'm sure he's very dear to all of us. I would just hate to see the underestimating of something bring about such a situation that, in Europe, such parties will gradually win, which will abolish it without us. That would be quite Pyrrhův's victory. Then I would like to say one more thing, perhaps, in conclusion, that I see this, apart from everything that has been said here, as a direct threat to another type - the European Union as such. You may have noticed that in recent days, social networks that I do not overestimate, but I do not underestimate, multiply various guaranteed messages, guaranteed videos, guaranteed photographs. Many of these are photomontages or in some way computerized things. And to say it to the public, he's drowning under the boiler. There are a number of different subjects, civic associations or different new and new information servers that specifically pump the atmosphere. I'm sure it's inconvenient, and I say that very euphemistically. And then I ask myself, isn't it also about proving that the Union is actually incompetent? Once again, is she incapable of dealing with something very serious? Who benefit from any differences within the Union? And they are now, now they are. Who can possibly enjoy it politically? I don't want to speculate, I'm just asking the question. But that the Union is under a certain clear attack, I believe it is undoubted. Finally, I would like to take the liberty of perhaps even a little bit more in the intensity of what Mr Schwarzenberg, President of the Foreign Committee, has said here. And that's the category of fear. I would very much agree with that. Definitely the power of shouting is not a measure of some kind of interest policy to deal with the situation. On the contrary, I think that using it, and it practically didn't come out here, and I very much acknowledge that using the current situation would not only be tacky but also dangerous. I think that even in the future, and we'll be in this situation up to our necks, with forgiveness, let's not live up to the words, let's not live up to the hints or the already existing hysteria, and let's not panic at all. Let's act. Please, let us act prudently, but definitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u29	I thank the Minister, and I am now opening up a general debate in which I have five factual remarks. First Mr Chalupa, then Mrs Černochová, if she does not wish to withdraw it. [[Mrs Cernochová informs from the bench that she will change her mind.]] Okay. Then Mr Kolovratník, Mr Plzák and then Mrs Němcová. It's just for the record, so you know when you're gonna come in. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u30	Good evening, thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, there have been many words here describing the state, the words warning, the words asking us what we are going to do. They are, from the point of view of the law, there is certainly a right to say them here, however, and I apologize for that, I have not heard anything new enough to force me to think again. Nothing that would make a major contribution to the many-week discussion and measures taken and resolutions on this very serious issue. What surprised me somewhat is that many Members have spoken here as if this Chamber of Deputies had not perceived the problem as if those Members who did not speak here were not active in this regard. Unfortunately, I also feel that some do not accept their responsibility for their votes and the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon. It is as if they do not see how their party colleagues voted on quotas in the European Parliament. It surprises me all the more that the Members I meet here in the Committee on Defence, in the Committee on Security, in the subcommittee on the Integrated Rescue System or in the Committee on Migration and Asylum Policy or in the Permanent Committee on Control of Military Intelligence speak this way. It is these Members, you colleagues, who know very well how long and how intensive we have been dealing with this problem. How we really understand all aspects and how very carefully we perceive the views of our fellow citizens. Many of us working in these committees have been expressing our views very clearly and clearly and for a long time. That is why I do not identify with some of the efforts of some political actors to seek out my political PR first and foremost on this very serious issue, but, of course, in the light of the media's attention, I understand this. What has been said here tonight is not the first time in the Chamber of Deputies. In a number of cases, it's just a thought extract from what's been said before by a number of us -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u31	Ambassador, your time is up, two minutes are up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u32	Well, I'll finish this quick.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u33	No, I'm so sorry. It's two minutes, there's a long line of you here to, if necessary, rejoin the factual or proper debate. Thank you. Another, with Mrs Černochová in fact, withdraws her application. I'll ask Mr. Kolovratník. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u34	Good evening, colleagues, I'll be brief and I won't even run out of time. First, I'm going to quote a message that I got through the chat from a voter, an I.D. from Pardubice, which accurately describes my attitude: "Immigrants. I understand my fears, and I'm very worried about my children. On the other hand, they're not indifferent to me and I can't imagine closing the borders and hello. Plus, you can't bail on Europe. We are part of everything good and bad." Well, that's a quote from one of the IDs. And what I want to say is that I thank you very much and agree with the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanc, who clearly described the problem. I have heard clear opinions from him here, a clear formulation of policy, how we will proceed, what action our government is taking and will take at the moment. I have also heard, albeit more extensive, other conclusions and views from Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. I may surprise you, but I agree with Petr Gazdík, who calls for specific actions on the spot. For example, to a diplomatic note on those rich Arab states that should help, and that is their problem. He calls for humanitarian activities of the Czech Republic. These are the positions that we as the Chamber of Deputies should send to the government and ask the government to take these steps and to inform us back. And that's what I'm gonna promote here. Last sentence. I would like to ask, through Madam President, Mrs Černochová, whom I will not whistle on today or ever again, not to use this debate for political advertising. When you say that your MEPs are voting and coalition in some other way, please be specific or withdraw this claim. But don't project this debate into the commercials of the Civil Democratic Party. Thank you and I believe that we all agree on a clear position on the government, on Europe and, above all, on immigrants. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u35	Thank you for keeping the time limit and I would like to see Mr Plzák's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u36	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I really have a point of fact on Mrs Černochová's speech. I listened carefully, I liked the speech, I identified myself with it until the moment you didn't tell us the full truth, and that is when you are, as far as voting in the European Parliament is concerned, so-called. She put all the coalition MPs in one bag. I do not know whether you do not know this or whether you have said it intentionally, but simply when the vote on paragraph 8 was taken when immigration was being discussed in the European Parliament, which recommended quota provisions to the European Commission, all the members of the ANO movement voted against this point and all the members of the ANO movement voted against the resolution as a whole, that is, just like your Members. So by explaining it, I'm sorry for my speech, that really wasn't dignified. And then I'm gonna pick up the nonprofit organizations you were talking about. This is also a real mystery to me, because yesterday I listened to the end of the Interview on ČT1 within seven hours, where the deputy was perhaps Amnesty International, who said that they had a study in Germany that clearly proves that immigrants are economically advantageous. And I said, why don't they take them all to Germany? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for keeping the time limit and I will ask Mrs Němcová and her two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. First, I want to assure our colleagues that we did not want to hold this debate in the House in order to somehow build political points for the ODS. We are very well aware of how serious the subject is, with the same introduction I stood here in February, where I explained to the Chamber of Deputies that this is a topic that interests the whole Czech Republic, and no one, even if he wanted to, can draw attention to himself as he is the savior of the whole event. Either we all agree together, either there will be some goodwill in the Chamber of Deputies, which will define the government's mandate on which we agree, and at the same time express this mandate to the majority of Czech society so that it has weight and legitimacy, or we do not agree. I feel that we are able to make a deal, and I am grateful for it in this. My brief remark led me to what Vice-President Gazdík said here. He said everything nicely, but on one thing, I'd like us to distinguish. I often hear an argument that the Czech Republic has something to return, because during the two totalitarian regimes that have struck us, many people who have been accepted have left. I want to point out that these two groups, those who fled Czechoslovakia from communism or Nazism, cannot be compared to people who are now leaving Africa, Syria, etc. From there, the elite of the country, which had never caused any problems in the countries where it was coming from, left. It is integrated into the system and work, such as. RAF flyers who left here and immediately assisted in the land where they came to face the evil from which they fled. I don't think that's why it's possible to put in one bag those who were leaving here because they really didn't pose any risk at all to the companies where they were coming from.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Madame, and I will now ask the first party to join the debate, Mr Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u40	Good evening, thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Two and a half hours, that's a pretty good performance before it gets to the first properly logged in. I'll still be, even though I've made these long notes because I've done them during what the previous speakers have said, so I'm going to try to shorten it, but I still want to share some opinions. I have to admit, I'm quite disappointed in the Prime Minister's performance. Not that I don't agree with him, what he said, but a description of the facts, a trip to history, a description of what's going on and how problems have arisen, but today's meeting has the word solution in its name. And I really missed the proposed solutions in the Prime Minister's speech. I think I listened well and took notes. I have noticed that, fortunately, Minister chovanec took it a little differently, and there I have heard some specific things and concrete suggestions, and I have therefore perceived this a little differently. You, Prime Minister, have said, through Madam President, that the programs are not working. You have often used the phrase that needs to be dealt with, we must not forget, we must be and we need to be - but specifically: what are we going to do, how do we do it? That we can't, that we have to do this, that's some general wording, but I think the activists sitting here at the gallery came here to hear some specific things, not to describe what the situation is. I think we all know that, and that's why we're sitting here today. It has also been said that we have already taken a number of measures in recent years. So what are the results? Well, the results are that we are dealing with this problem here today, that this problem is growing, and so some concrete measures are probably not taken or ineffective, and the results are that the influx of immigrants to Europe is growing sharply. So what was said was done, so I'm saying that it was said that we were unable to deal with the problem. I also heard here, I think it was still in the Prime Minister's speech, but we're not sure whether the Secretary of State or the Prime Minister, the list of where we're all involved in Africa, what programs we've been involved in. Well, what's next, and how are we gonna deal with this here? Accepting five or twenty students from Jordan will not solve the problem of immigrants on our border. And I think that's what we who called the meeting were expecting to hear some concrete hints of what was being done. This is probably what the activists at the gallery were expecting, and this is what I believe is expected at this point, according to my information, by those 80,000 petents who signed a petition that, although against quotas, is against the acceptance of quotas, but they certainly expected or have the idea of hearing proposals for some solutions. It sounds like we need to be ready. And I'll get back to it. How? I didn't hear much about how we had to be prepared. I also heard here in the Prime Minister's speech that we must support economic migration. The Prime Minister subsequently denied it in that speech, but he often contradicts himself in his speeches, as he did this morning during his written interventions. But, for God's sake, by taking experts from those poor countries, those who are economically high, we're not helping those countries. This will only hurt them, because their economic situation will only deteriorate. I'd mention the information. What Minister Stropnický said here, I agree that there is information that is spreading, which, as Minister Stropnickýý said, is pumping and exaggerating, often the question is whether they are real or not real, I agree with that, that is true. And why is such information spreading? Because, therefore, I am convinced that this is precisely because there is no essential information that the government, our official media, should submit, is not enough to find there, and that is why it is created to spread the information that Minister Stropnický spoke of. I agree with him. It's with a question mark whether they're real or how real they are, but that the nature of a problem is, I think we all know, we're probably not going to discuss it. [[20.40 hours]] The petition I mentioned was handed over to the House a week ago, had 46,000 signatures. According to the information I have, he now has 80,000 signatures and others are coming. So it can be said that in about a week's time, citizens have added almost double signatures, and it is evident that this is a really current burning problem that burns our citizens. Roughly 5,000 signatures on the petition as an addition every day. When I mentioned the petition, it seems to me that today we received some information from the Ministry of the Interior, for which I am sure I thanked and we met, but I cannot remember, or I cannot recall the similarity with the petition Vrbětický, when all the information was also rejected, when the request, my request, which I presented, was rejected to include that point on the agenda, until the third time an extraordinary meeting was convened and then some information was provided. And I'm afraid I see the parallel here. There was a seminar at the Home Office some time ago involving immigration, and I thought it was very useful, or I still think it was very useful. I took part in it. And I would like to mention one thing that was said there, which was clearly said that the wave of immigrants coming to Europe, and it was also said here today that the migrants were not identified. We don't really know who's coming. As soon as they start running around Europe, traveling, I think, we're going to have a hard time doing something, if we don't actually know where they're from, what ties they have, what contacts they have, who they are. I consider that a very dangerous situation. And the fact that this has been said, I don't know what the current situation is, the seminar was, I don't know, two or three months ago, so I don't know what the EU's doing, if we're really letting them in again. I feel that when a Czech citizen goes abroad and doesn't have his passport, he's returned, but immigrants are flowing into Europe in bulk. The problem isn't new, it's not short-term. It takes several years, and we know how the European Union has dealt with the current approach. He basically didn't figure himself out. We have not been able to solve problems with inadaptable citizens in our country, we have not been able to solve them in many years, problems with the abuse of social benefits, we have not been able to solve problems with the abuse of payment of housing contributions. And I fear that in the current approach that our institutions and the government are demonstrating, we cannot solve and deal with the problem of immigrants. I'm really worried. I think that those serious concerns as much as I do have petents and citizens signing the petition. When I proposed an item on the agenda of the meeting, which was therefore rejected, and on the basis of the fact that the opposition parties had to call on this extraordinary meeting, I wanted specific answers to the questions that we are prepared for the influx of immigrants. I'm telling you a simple thing, I've said it again a few times: it doesn't matter if we - it's my opinion - accept quotas or not. The immigrants, or as the invaders have been told here, will one day simply come up with no matter whether we accept the quotas or not, whether they are forced on us or not, whether we accept them or not. I mean, as the Minister of the Interior said, a new route came from Hungary. That's very close. They're in Austria, they're in Germany, and one day they'll just get to us. And when we wanted this meeting to take place so that we could get information from the government, as it is on the board, about solving this problem, we were expecting it, and I can see that it's probably a little naive, how we're prepared for it, whether material supplies are being prepared in some camps or where the refugees, who would stay here against our will, what we're going to do with them. I am a member of the Budget Committee, currently discussing the budget, whether there will be any reserves in the budget for this year, whether this amount will be included in next year's budget in the draft chapters. Because I'm on the budget committee, I know it doesn't count much. And we were expecting specific answers that I still lack. Are we making some material supplies so that we can deal with this so that immigrants don't run around our republic freely when we don't know how they are, how safe, what are their identities? We don't know, and I haven't gotten an answer yet, if the government's counting on this, if we're preparing for this, we're going to see if we have the funds earmarked for it. Let's not get illusions, it'll cost us money, finance, and it won't be enough of them, I'm afraid. And I didn't get the answer to that question either. I've registered in the media, and now I don't know if that's true, but I'd like to hear the Minister of the Interior's reply that he's considering closing the borders. That's why I've got the lock on my tricolor. This is from activists who expect border closure - imaginary, increased checks, which the Minister spoke of. So if it counts that it would really be necessary - I say, I don't want to cause anything - but if necessary, if the situation escalates, and I'm afraid that this maybe escalation is real, that it's not unrealistic whether we're capable or in what time period we'll be able to react to it with the fact that we're going to make our boundaries less and less permeable. Not for EU citizens, not for our neighbours from Poland, Hungary, Austria, but for those refugees that we do not know where they come from, what their goals are, what they really want with us, whether they want to or do not want to adapt. And I didn't get that answer either, and unfortunately I also have experience, so I know that it will probably be very hard to get it. It is perhaps symbolic that here, because it is about finance, money is simply about everything, that here - let ANO colleagues not be angry with me - again symbolically is not the Minister of Finance, because it will cost us mainly money. So now that I've gotten to the point, I'm going to use one more point that I wanted to talk about. We have tabled a draft law on churches that is related to this topic. In addition to the current border situation, there are other aspects of the current crisis. It is an update of Czech legislation, which on many points cannot deal with the situation. We're mine. They submitted a draft law on churches. The aim of the proposal is to make the admission of special ecclesiastical rights, such as the establishment of church schools or the operation of spiritual service in prisons and the military, subject to a security evaluation of the church. These are the very institutes where radicalism can penetrate society, whether radical ideas come into the minds of young students or convicted criminals. BIS, Military Intelligence, Office for Foreign Relations and Information and Police are thus required to give a binding assessment of whether the church does not give rise to reasonable concern that it threatens the Czech Republic's foreign policy interest or does not give rise to reasonable suspicion that it threatens public order or national security. We have no idea why this government is rejecting this proposal. The government's reasoning is quite spasming. At the first point, the government says that such a measure is not necessary and that it restricts non-discriminatory access to churches. At the second point, he also says that such an evaluation is already taking place. [[20.50 hours]] In essence, the principle of the law is that such an assessment should take place on a compulsory basis. We cannot imagine knowing that the Church poses a security risk while granting it special rights. It is also important that none of the security authorities - the NBU, the Ministry of the Interior, the BIS and others - opposes the law and understands the reasons for its introduction. I would therefore appeal to the Government to set aside its political ambitions and to support the bills that are important for the security of the Czech Republic. I would like to mention here that I appreciate - and I have said so in our briefing - that the activists sitting here are not resorting to escalating and radicalizing the problem. As you can see, they are submitting petitions, which is the way of a democratic solution, in order to be able to express their opinion, present or propose legislation, which is precisely in line with our democracy and our legislative principles. If we avoid this, or we are lazy, I am not saying that we are quite avoiding it, but if we are too lazy to solve this problem, then there will just be room for radical groups to take over this topic, which will be foreign to some democratic legal principle, and the problem will escalate and will grow over our heads. I therefore appeal to the government to act more specifically. I personally expect, repeat, the answers to whether we count within, I don't know, the material reserves, within the budget of the Ministry of the Interior with the exclusion of places where the immigrants would be, the means for their temporary presence with us, I hope temporary, the funds for which it will cost, the increased number of employees or police members, the army and these things. I'm afraid I haven't heard the answers yet. Furthermore, I would like to hear a concrete answer to this, it has already been here, this challenge has fallen when we do not accept quotas, what sanctions will be and if we are able - what will happen next, how will the European Union deal with this problem, how will we deal with it? Because by our mission here in this House, as we all swore when we made a pledge to Parliament, I would like to remind everyone that we would defend the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. I understand the problems of immigrants, I have a social feeling, but in our parliamentary promise we have committed ourselves to defending the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic in particular and primarily. As the 21st hour is approaching, I would suggest that we continue to act after 21st hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, I'll take that as a procedural proposal. [[Unique applause from the left and right of the courtroom]] We shall put to the vote that the Chamber of Deputies will act and vote after 21 o'clock in terms of both territorial and procedural terms. I'm registering the application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, I'm going to ring the bell, of course I'm going to call those who are in the lobby, and I'm going to ask you all to rejoin. [[Restlessness and noise in the courtroom]] Given the presence of Members and Members 44, I must wait a little while longer for the Chamber of Deputies to be a quorum. I'll ring the bell one more time and call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. [[Restlessness and noise in the courtroom]] Members are still coming, so I will ask you for a moment of patience to wait for everyone to arrive in the Chamber. I'll ask you who came to the O.R. to sign up with your electronic cards. This is Mr. Koníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u42	Mr President, Mr Fiedler's proposal is unvoting. Yesterday we had it here once, when I said that Mr Mihola's proposal is unvoting, Mr Fiedler's proposal is also unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u43	Well, then, I will ask Mr Fiedler to repeat his proposal, because this is a procedural proposal that we will put to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u44	Sorry, I apologise, on behalf of two MPs, the Dawn and the ODS MP, I propose that we negotiate and complete this point even after twenty-first hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u45	It would be good for them to "negotiate and vote"...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u46	They acted and voted after twenty-one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u47	Okay. I will ring the bell once again on the gong and ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the vote because we have four minutes before 21 o'clock, which means either we vote to continue the negotiations, or I will be forced to interrupt the House of Deputies. [[Restlessness in the courtroom.]] For the record, I'm gonna read one more note that came to me. It's Mrs Zuzana Kailová's apology, and I'll read it. Mr President, please excuse the absence of Mrs Zuzana Kailová from this afternoon's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic from 18:00 for personal reasons. So that's a pardon, Mrs.... [[It is waiting for a sufficient number of Members to appear on the light board. After a while, Mrs. Nemcová approaches the microphone.]] Since you have a priority right, okay. I beg you to step forward, Madame. I'm just saying it's 8:59. I'm sure you know the meeting ends at 9:00 p.m. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u48	I understand all this. Thank you for the floor. I think we understand all who are here. It is a disgrace to the coalition, which claims how serious the point towards the public is, and we know well that part of the Members are being turned off here. I can see how many of us are sitting here right now. There's a 66 on the board. If, for the Prime Minister and for the government as a whole, a relationship with citizens is so important and trust building is so important, I do not understand how it cannot ensure at least among its Members when the coalition gives the majority of the Chamber of Deputies to have a majority here at this point. I consider this a disgrace to the coalition and its approach to this point, to citizens and to the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-001-001.u49	President Bělobrádek is still applying for priority rights. Unfortunately, I can say that by 21 o'clock, the Chamber of Deputies was not capable of quorum. For this reason, we could not vote to act and vote after the 21st hour. That is why I am interrupting this meeting. Thank you and have a nice rest tonight.
