ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u1	123. Request of the Police of the Czech Republic for consent Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda I'll ask if... Well, in that case, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given the way the vote on the programme took place, I will abstain from my subjective view of the evaluation, but given the way this has been done, I would like to propose that this meeting be suspended until 14.00 on Tuesday next week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u3	I see. This is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. This is a meeting adjourned until next Tuesday 14.00. Okay. I'm not registering any counterproposals. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with President Kalousek's procedural proposal. Who's against it? Voting time is 57, registered is 175, for 21, against 99. This proposal has not been adopted. Let's keep going, then. I ask the President of the mandate and immunity committee, Miroslava Němcová, to report to us on the discussion of a request from the Police of the Czech Republic for consent to the criminal prosecution of the Member. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I also come before you in accordance with today's resolution by the mandate and immunity committee, which requires me to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the current course of handling this matter, namely the police's request for extradition to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. So I would like to brief you briefly on the progress of the case. On 26 January this year, the Police of the Czech Republic requested the approval of the House for the criminal extradition of Mr Bohuslav Svoboda for criminal prosecution. I've called the mandate and immune committee. We discussed this request at two meetings. The first meeting was number 25, took place on 10 February. We continued the 26th meeting on 24 February. At this second meeting, as is the rule, we have also invited Mr Svoboda, we have heard his comments, and the committee has also been able to deal in detail with the opinions of both rapporteurs, namely Mr Jan Chvojka and Mr Martin Plíšek. We have had a comprehensive discussion on this, and this discussion has led to the conclusion that the mandate and immunity committee adopted Resolution 110, which did not recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to give its consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. This item was included as point 123 at our meeting and it was just by chance that the House did not decide on the original request before the police's request to withdraw the original request for extradition came in. We agreed in the debate that we held on the mandate and immune committee that this is an unprecedented case that has no parallel in the Chamber of Deputies. We are convinced that we deserve to know about the background of this first request and then the withdrawal of the application much more than we know so far, because it is not normal that, in relation to a Member or a Senator, i.e. elected representatives, elected legislators, but even to a common citizen, the police have acted in a way that will first put him under enormous pressure both personal and media pressure, and then the police have to admit that she is wrong and takes everything back. Therefore, I present this, so far short, an explanation of what we have done in the case of how, I am happy to repeat, the mandate and immune committee has acted immediately, carried out all the tasks imposed on it by the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and also prepared a motion for a resolution for the House in due time. Only then did the police's request for withdrawal come and we are now in a situation where we should deal with how the House perceives this situation. At the same time, I am entrusted with the mandate and immune committee to present the motion for a resolution, but I think that there will be room for a motion for a resolution later. So I'm going to sign up for him after the appearances of our colleagues are heard here. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u5	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur, who is Mr Martin Plíšek, if he wishes to speak. He wishes to get out. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u6	Mr President, dear colleagues, very briefly. The alleged act for which the police request the extradition of Mr Svoboda for criminal prosecution was to take place in 2012. Now, at the end of 2015, or at the end of last year, we received a request from the Police of the Czech Republic that, after I suspect the third meeting, a mandate and an immune committee should be given notice of the withdrawal of this request, in the way that supervision of the supervisory authority has entered into it, in effect, a supervisory prosecutor has been tasked with supervising the state's attorney and has therefore instructed the police to withdraw the application. I think that we agreed on the committee across the political spectrum that such a conflicting practice by law enforcement agencies is not right, it does not call for certainty about the rule of law in us. I add that this concerns a Member, which is a case that is fairly monitored. It is, of course, a negative in the fact that the colleague is also publicly and publicly abused, but, of course, he has the possibility of defending himself. If we take this approach in the case of the citizens of this state, and then we have to enforce the justice that will come in a long time, and that is not a pretty sight. The President has already announced this, he will present a resolution on which the entire mandate and immunity committee has agreed, and we really want to ask the Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs to explain to the entire Chamber of Deputies the conflicting practice of the authorities involved in criminal proceedings in this matter. So much for my performance so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. In the general debate with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is motivated by one single question: what will happen next? Who will be responsible? We all know that the request alone for the extradition of a Member to prosecute is extremely damaging, and often also the cessation of political careers and the reputation of politics. If someone is to be prosecuted and the House decides on him, he is very often in advance not only charged but convicted and executed, and there are always enough colleagues to contribute to this. I could give a whole series of examples back, including Mrs Parkanová, including Mr Schwarz. They were all destroyed in advance, executed in advance. And it was always accompanied by such amazing clichés written by some journalists like Martin Komárek or Jana Lorencová: let them be cleansed in an independent court. How can they be exonerated in an independent court if they do not reach an independent court? Some of my colleagues have been waiting for this independent court for four years and still in vain. Mr. Svoboda will probably never see a fair trial. Why would he? The task has been accomplished. It has been requested to issue it. He was tarnished, accused, accused, and executed by part of the company. The task has been accomplished, now we can pull it back, leave the spit-out Svoboda here, and we won't risk a process where he can clear himself. How many cases like this? There's a lot of cases like this. I want to ask if it really is The Chamber of Deputies wants to suffer that the law enforcement authorities will make fun of us in this way. If they decide to smear someone, they'll smear him, and if he gets dirty enough, they'll drop the charges again because they can't stand him in an independent court. Hat down in front of independent justice! Attention, I don't mean the D.A. Independent justice is the courts. The State Attorney's office shall be responsible for the impartial exercise of its powers. So I say hat down in front of independent justice - I mean courts. There are already these public prosecutors and executioners in one person unsure, so they will withdraw. Why would they risk it? They've done the job. They've spit enough on Mr Svoboda. And now they're in no danger at all. And they're not at any risk in the situation that we're gonna take this. And I'm begging you not to take it. I'm not familiar with the draft mandate and immunity committee, but if there's no mention of taking responsibility, I'm gonna go supplement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u9	I have a point of fact here. If it is the de facto Mr Komárek, he may speak directly. I then amended the proper application by Mr Svoboda and Mr Chvojka. That's right. With a factual remark of two minutes, Mr Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kalousek mentioned me. I'm not defending myself for being a journalist. Maybe it's better than being a politician all your life. What I want to say is that, in substance, I completely agree with Mr Kalousek that the police have treated Mr Svoboda badly and that we will not, in fact, ever see a fair trial alive in this country. It really is. It's up to us to make it better. It's also up to us to ask who, who caused this unbearable state of affairs. I think it's a perfectly legitimate question. I guess it's not us who've been elected in the last period. I would also like to point out that this concerns only Members, that they can be issued. Hetmani, members of the council, who are accused equally absurdly, simply must face prosecution. Only we Members have this privilege. And I would like to draw Mr Kalousek's attention to the fact that they are members of his party, and I think that he himself is signed under it, who propose this immunity of ours and abolish this privilege of ours. It is not just about us Members, it is about all citizens who have to face up to the police and so-called law enforcement authorities. Let's think about them, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u11	Thank you. As much as I've announced the order, it's changed. The Minister of the Interior shall speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will have to apologize at three o'clock for a brief meeting on an important matter, which is why I have taken the liberty of speaking now. Right after the information I received from President Hamáček about five days ago, I asked the police president why this matter happened, why the police withdrew the extradition request. The answer is clear: on direct instruction from the prosecutor. This is where the police are constantly referred to, but we must realise that the preparation of criminal proceedings is supervised by the prosecutor and the prosecutor is the master of this procedure. If the resolution of the committee that Mrs Němcová presented here sounds as described by the media, that ministers should explain, we are ready for it. I have already asked the Police President to prepare a report for the mandate and immunity committee, as well as for the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies. I will ensure that the police behave correctly both to the Chamber of Deputies and to the Senate, to communicate the information they have to communicate and not to learn from the media, but to learn from them in a standard, normal, civilised way. This does not mean that the police are not independent and cannot act legally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'm afraid that's the problem the Home Secretary just said. He said the police are independent. It's not. Police are part of the Czech executive. Someone likes to act out that the D.A. is independent. It's not. [[14.50 hours]] The State's Attorney's office, according to our legal order, has an impartial exercise of competence. And they're all members of one single, one single institution, and that's the executive of the Czech Republic. [[with emphasis]] And just the idea that one of the members of the executives accused someone here, and the other member of the executives pulled it down, and maybe he did it in concert, it's just unimaginable. The peak is responsible for this, and this is the government of the Czech Republic. How is it possible that the government of the Czech Republic will admit that one member of the Czech Republic interprets something quite differently than the other? The ministers, the Police of the Czech Republic and the state prosecutors of the Czech Republic are not independent, independent institutions. They are part of the power of executive and independent decision-making only have courts. And the fact that the police and the prosecutors interpret something the other way around and create this chaos here, perhaps intentionally damaging to Mr. Docent Svoboda, is the responsibility of the government of the Czech Republic, which covers both the police and the public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u15	Now it seems that Mr Svoboda, who is the only member of the general debate so far, will actually get the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u16	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin by thanking you for allowing me to speak here at this counter by voting. This thing is really very, very serious, not just from my point of view, but from a general point of view. And I agree with a number of things that Mr Kalousek said. But there's one thing I don't really agree with: when he said the police were making fun of us. It's not funny at all. It's not funny at all. I would very much like to draw attention to a few moments that are linked to this matter. And I'm not saying that because it concerns me. I'm saying this because I think it has a very general character. As for the case we're talking about right now, that means the prosecution, because I took the liberty of suing the Transport Company or three lawsuits... It's a little more complicated than that. This is a matter that has been repeatedly discussed by the Magistrate's Supervisory Committee, which has been discussed with the police, with investigators at many levels. And the case, as it was, was dropped. Even before my extradition was requested, it was withdrawn with a special justification. The justification I received was that I would still be sentenced to other, far more serious things and get a higher sentence. The investigators assumed the court would decide. I don't know if that's possible in the state of law, but that's the reason I got. Then my extradition was requested, even though the case was closed as if by the police, postponed. Of course I was the last to hear about it. All day before that, I got a call from the media saying they already knew that I was going to be asked for my release. I didn't know. Even the President of the Senate didn't know. As a justification, they told me that the police were reopening it because they had received such instructions from the supervising state's attorney. Now I'm hearing that the D.A. has requested that this case be withdrawn. I don't want to describe any details, but I'm sure you can all imagine what that means. At the moment the House is asked for your release, the media have no concern other than asking if you will agree to it, whether you feel guilty and how many times you've done what you're ready to be in prison. Of course, people stop you, they ask you about it. And, of course, that means that your political credibility is fundamentally disparaged. That's a thing that's really awful. I have a pretty rich experience with her, please. I don't know if you all remember this, but the House has already released me once in a criminal case that... And the decision of the House was to publish. This issue, I agreed with it, I voted for it myself, because it was a matter concerning the decision of the representatives elected to the Magistrate, a decision on a political matter, and that is a decision that I believe must not be challenged, because no other economic criteria can be assessed by a political decision. And beware - as an issued man, I have learned, I have been given a ruling by the court that returns the lawsuit, with the fact that there is not enough evidence in it for the trial to be initiated at all. So I was issued by this House at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic, and the evidence was such that the judge immediately returned it with the fact that there was nothing to be discussed in court. The first case meant to me that I actually unsuccessfully ran for the leadership of our party simply because that was the situation. Of course, it meant a lot of complications for me both at the Magistrate and in the Chamber of Deputies. And even that institute of extradition by the Chamber of Deputies was actually ridiculed. If the Chamber of Deputies issues someone on the basis of material that is not enough to prosecute, it is indeed contempt for the Chamber of Deputies. It's disparaging all the functions of the House. I would very, very well be doing so to deal with this matter. Think about it from me. I'm not saying that as my defense. I'm only saying this because I know there are a number of mayors who are in similar situations. They're accused of anything. There is less talk of this simply because they are not Members. The impact on them is only local. In their town, in their village, they may not be elected anymore. It's all the worse for me that the impact is country-wide, and when I come to Brno or anywhere, there's talk of this whole thing everywhere. We set up -- or you set up -- I didn't vote for it -- an investigation committee on Blank Tunnel. Why do you think the mayor is asking for this? First of all, because he can't solve it, but mostly because he's scared when he decides he's gonna be the defendant. And that is how all the representatives will act! Today, I'm called little mayors: If we have something fundamental to decide economically, I just don't get the councilmen. She could use a sick day. I'm not able to make any major decisions. And that is a matter that is a fundamental threat to our democracy. [[He speaks very strongly.]] Let us all be aware of this and ask for explanations of such things simply because it is not possible for the mayor of the capital city of Prague to do so simply because he is afraid that someone will get together and file a criminal report against him, which will then prove unjustified, but it will destroy everything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u17	You'll have to make a deal, gentlemen. [[Laughter.]] But it's fair to some extent. If President Stanjura, who was the first, prefers President Fial, the second was Mr Kalousek. So he has the floor, then Chairman Fiala, then Chairman Stanjura. And Mr Blažek is duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u18	I apologize to both colleagues, whom I would prefer at any other time, but my performance will be shorter than a point of fact. So I just wanted to say, please, that we realize what an institution we are and who is confessing to us. We are the Chamber of Deputies and we are responsible for the government of the Czech Republic, which is responsible for all executives. It is the roof organ of executives in the Czech Republic. And for me, it's an unacceptable argument that says here, when the Home Secretary comes out and says, "It's not the cop's fault, it's the D.A., it's the gentleman, it's the man who's gonna order it." I suppose then Minister Pelikán can come forward and say, well, the cop did it all wrong, and the prosecutor was right. I don't care! The Chamber of Deputies is an institution to which the government is confessing. And the government is being questioned by the police and the state's attorney. For this incredible mess and for this incredible human humiliation and dragging of mud before us is not a policeman or a prosecutor, the government of the Czech Republic is responsible in front of us! And I ask that we call the Czech Government to account!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u19	Chairman of the Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the convincing personal story of Mr Svoboda here. The story of how he is repeatedly criminalized, or how attempts are repeatedly made to criminalize him. If it were only the story of Mr Liberty, it is serious, it is sad, it is tragic. It would be an incentive for us to be alert. But it wouldn't be as serious as it is. Professor Svoboda is not alone in this. There's a lot of attempts to criminalize politics going on here. And there are a number of mistakes that happen. Ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago, Mr Kalousek asked the question: "What's next? What's next? I want to say that I asked the same question publicly at the end of last week when I learned that the Ministry of Justice apologized to three former Members of this Chamber of Deputies and agreed with them to pay compensation. This is where the damage was proven, the state made a mistake, and there must be some reaction to that. Someone's responsible, somebody's got to confess, somebody's got to deduce some sort of convention. And I'm afraid that's not happening yet. But let's keep going. Criminalisation of politics is not dangerous for politicians. The criminalization of politics is dangerous for society, for all citizens. It begins with an attempt to criminalize political decisions. You sit on the board, you have the materials of your lawyers, from the entire bureaucratic apparatus, you vote in good faith for something, and then someone comes in and says, "You probably had a different intention." So you're charged, dragging you in the media, weeks, months, years, and then the state says, "Sorry, we're wrong." You have a broken reputation, a political career, everything, but we were wrong. We can't let that happen any longer! But I'll tell you something else. The criminalization of politics will follow, unless we stop it, the criminalization of any public activity, any function. We've heard of worries here, but I can tell you that the school heads are getting scared too, just anyone who makes decisions is responsible for something that someone comes in and says, "You could have done it differently." You could have done it more favorably! He'll be dragged for months, years, after the investigation, after the courts, and eventually it's said, "Sorry, you didn't do anything, we were wrong." Ladies and gentlemen, we can't let that happen. It's our responsibility to make it stop, to do something. And it's the government's responsibility to get her to react in some way. Here we have an example that we all understand that affects everyone. So I challenge you, let us act as we are legislators. Let us ask the government to act, let us ask the government to take responsibility for this! Let us ask the government to take such personal and systemic measures that these cases cannot be repeated!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u21	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Stanjur, he has two minutes with Mrs Lorencová's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u22	Hello, colleagues, through the President, I have a modest question. When do you think the fear of responsibility sneaked in? When was that? It's been a year and a half since we've been in this compound in the House? Or did it start a long time ago under previous governments, when did people really start to fear because too much economic and political joined together? When did they start to worry about bread, about losing their jobs when they show a different opinion than he was in fashion than he was in power, than those who were in power? So I would very much like to hear if the weight of responsibility, whether the weight of that great responsibility rests on the current parliament, on the current government, or whether all that was left for her is to remove everything that preceded it. For your governments!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Now with priority rights, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u24	Thank you. First, I will have a specific comment on the case of the last request of the Police of the Czech Republic, and I will tell you what I found strange about this, even though I am not a member of the mandate and immune committee, and therefore I have not been able to get acquainted with the case. But let's try to describe him. The police blame the mayor for ordering something for a million dollars and for causing damage to the city in the amount of one million crowns. We'll accept this structure. But then that one million crowns had to be cashed in for nothing. The mayor didn't pay himself off. And if everything that was paid out of the city's budget was a shame, that means the city got something worth zero crowns, and logically somebody got rich on it - by the way, that someone was today's senator! I don't want him involved. Here you can see how absurd it is. Someone caused the damage, he's being dragged through a public debate, and whoever the police say profited from it and cashed the money, that's not what they're talking about. There shouldn't be any talk of either, just to be clear. I don't want to spread it to both of them. But that is the strangest thing I see as a member of the Chamber of Deputies who is not a member of the mandate and immunity committee, and I am glad that I am not a member and that I do not have to read it. Because this is not the first time that the members of the mandate and immune committee are here with great doubt about the quality of the proposal. I am glad that we have come together in the debate to believe that it does not apply: We will give them all up! That it's just a cheap gesture that mixes up cases and that we're really assessing a case by case. And that's how it's supposed to be. Second thing, it's general. And I wouldn't want to downplay it. It's a matter for the government. I do not know if it is in the motion for a resolution. As a Member, I would like the government to present statistics on how many municipal politicians have been charged, how many have been charged and how many have been convicted, and to compare it with other figures in other cases. Whether it's a number of convicts comparable to that of other cases or whether it's different. That, I think, is the key answer to the question of whether the police and the prosecutor are progressing well. If the percentage is comparable to other cases, we may not like it, but the success in independent courts is similar. But if it's lower or significantly lower, there's a systemic problem. And unfortunately, who has experienced this in municipal politics does not mean that you will be cleansed. Most of the time, the interpretation is not all, but many: it was swept under the carpet, once again the powerful agreed, nothing was investigated. A little bit on every rack of truth. And now I could name it. The theoretical advice "so back off, leave public life immediately, and the moment you clear yourself, you can come back" doesn't often apply because the mandates are for a period of time. But even if it's true. It is not very real in the conditions of the Czech Republic. And ask the local politicians. [[15.10 hours]] And we're talking about it today, not because it's an MP, but because it was an act of municipal policy, even if it was the largest community in our country. And almost every week I read - the police come with an expert opinion - the city bought for 10 crowns and they have an expert opinion that they could buy for 9 crowns. Then we'll charge them all. Or vice versa, the city sold for 10, the police will come in with an expert opinion that they could sell for 11 crowns, so we'll charge them again. Then there are these ideas that we're going to vote secretly on councils, and there's always one that stays, and all the councilmen are going to say in interrogation - that was me. But that's no solution. This is ridiculous! When I was in the city council, I pushed for a public vote, as it is in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm not ashamed of my opinion. Let it be recorded as I voted. There's nothing wrong with that. But criminalizing someone for a political decision is really wrong. And the third thing - and it is an appeal to policies of all levels, from municipal to regional to national. Some of us contribute to this. Instead of leading a political battle with standard means and saying, "He did it wrong, let's call him off, let's not vote for him, vote for me," they're using criminal charges. Almost every day you read about someone who filed a criminal complaint, the opposition representative on the coalition, the new mayor on the former mayor, sometimes it mixes up and the police saves it. So if we want to contribute, let's not. Let's fight our colleagues and our opponents through political means, let's not bring criminal charges into this just because we think they've made the wrong decision. So let's say they made the wrong decision. When we rule, we will make better decisions. That's correct, a citizen will understand. So we can contribute to that. Not only will the government come and we will support some systemic measures. But let's not file a criminal report on the decision of our colleagues. I'm not talking about criminal activity, I'm not talking about that at all. I'm talking about it when it seems to us that the city could have done better or worse. Well, after the battle, every general. Three years after the deal went down, you'll always find an expert with a round stamp that will give you a price other than what the board rented or sold the council for. So what? So we're gonna prosecute these people and criminalize them? Scandalize? That's not the way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u25	Thank you. I have two factual points here. Mr Schwarz will speak with the first remark, Mr Chvojka will prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u26	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I don't want to talk about what's going on in the community, I don't want to talk about it much. I've known nine years what it's like to be published and pillaged. I just want to say one important thing to think about. With a few colleagues I got the confidence to do Opencard. Opencard has been harmed by Mr. Svoboda. Think what you want. I know he was hurt. I tried to prove it with my colleagues, and we did it. Hurt by bad police work and bad prosecutor work. That's just the way it is. It's a warning. That's it. And yet he's an MP, and in the quotes, the cops and prosecutors just didn't care, they went their own way, and they went wrong. And yet, to make sure that some parliamentary committee was interested, they didn't care. Look, they pulled something out in a few days and did what was done. Please, if we can all make a difference, I won't say independent, that's nonsense, you don't believe anybody, but in order for this not to happen, let's really think about it and do something. Because it's dangerous. It's not just about the worries, but it's just about how the police, the state's attorney's office are going to operate, whether it's a contract or whether it's really justice. That's what this is about. Unfortunately, that's what I see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u27	Thank you. Two more minutes for Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll probably be one of those newsletters, too, but I think I'll just take two minutes. I'd just like to start by pointing out this humorous aspect of the event. I wouldn't expect this from the ODS representative - and I think it's a complete joke, but it's ironic - that the file shows that the contract with doktor Láska, which I think of as a true-teller of this activist type, was made on the recommendation of Transparency International, which I would not expect the ODS representative to recommend. Because these are subjects that I don't think should recommend anything to anyone. That's kind of the humorous aspect of the action. However, I was one of the rapporteurs on the mandate and immunity committee. I have taken a position like most of the committee, i.e. I voted against extradition. It must be said that no one voted in favour, seven people voted against, five abstained, so even those representatives of the new policy, who are against the terrible immunity, which has been very upset here for 20 years, have acknowledged that maybe the immunity has its reasons. I'm of the opinion that the work of police and prosecutors can't look like that. In order for a politician to be asked to be extradited for a big media hype for some dubious reason, and then for almost no media hype based on three sentences, the request was taken back, so that's not how it works. And I insist that even though the then Mayor of Svoboda signed it, I wouldn't say that it was quite standard, just because of those subjects, so I think and repeat the thesis that I said on the committee - let's do these things on the basis of some civil dispute, let's do the damage if it was created, but let's not do these things by criminal means. [[The President draws attention to the time]] That's nonsense, and it just messes up police lawsuits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u29	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Another duly applied for is Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u30	Hello, thank you for your word. I have witnessed several debates in this House about the prosecutor's office. But there's one problem we need to realize. We move in extreme ways of thinking. The first is, and I was listening here about half or three quarters of a year ago, that there are scary political interventions in the prosecutor's office, and that it has to stop and that the prosecutor's office has to be absolutely independent so that it can't happen. Today's debate is more about the fact that politicians can't actually do much about it, so it is necessary for the prosecutor's office to work differently and not that the minister sitting here is responsible with the government for what the public prosecutor is doing, but he has almost zero competence, except for personnel and some financial. We have to get out of these extremes in some way. Now, I don't want to say anything about the past, but as I'm listening here, it needs some tools... Well, the instrument's coming. The minister said yesterday that a new state's attorney's bill was coming up on us. And I want to ask you in advance actually a very simple thing to think about this law differently or start thinking about it. But what is not possible is that it is only because some organizations that are not even sitting here will constantly put pressure on any politician here to be afraid to say the word state's attorney, because it immediately interferes with the case, until the other extreme, when the minister would call on specific representatives of the prosecutors and want them to either start or stop something in quotation marks. I think we have a chance to make the instrument good here, but it takes two things in my opinion - not even populists or hypocrites. If part of this hall is a populist and the other part is a hypocrite, of course, we'll never deliver the instrument, and the state's attorney and the police will laugh at us. And I say they will laugh at us rightly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u31	I thank Mr Blažek. Another duly signed up is Mr Gabal, followed by Mr Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, dear government, the last time I spoke quite rashly here at the end of the meeting about how I interpret the results of the Opencard investigation, I had no idea that I would soon get back to the continuing history of the Prague City Hall. And since this case has something to do with it, and it hasn't been said what the contents were, I wouldn't be hasty. Firstly, we are talking about the development of the situation sometime since 2006. Secondly, it is not certain who is fighting who through the police. Thirdly, in this case, he is also a prosecutor, in this case a prosecutor in Prague 1, in a way that strongly resembles what we saw at Opencard. [[15.20 hours]] If you'll allow me a moment of time, I've been thinking a lot about what kind of work we did and didn't do on that committee, and whether we actually figured out what was the nature of the problem. We thought on the committee that the 800 million that disappeared from marketing and legal services within Opencard was the essence of stolen money, but it wasn't. The real essence of this thing, and we are talking about urban public transport in Prague, was that someone developed a product that monopolized the subscription to all components of mass transport in Prague, copyright and de facto ownership of this product remained in the private hands of the company that developed the product for the money of Prague, and if the scandal with the forensic audit had not broken, the entire subscription to public transport in Prague was prepared to privatise and sell it for more money. This means that the main money had yet to come, the benefit and profit, by selling the subscription in Prague. And what are we talking about now? Now we are talking about the fact that the Prague Transport Company, which then refused to issue accounting documents to a forensic company hired by the City Council, simply refused and did not give them, signed a contract for the purchase of 250 trams, I believe, until 2018, for which Prague will pay 19 billion in an inexcusable way. Crowns. So just as the privatisation of the public transport subscription was being prepared, the de facto complete occupancy was being prepared and the capacity of the technological solution was sold by trams. This was also the case with the repair company of the Transport Company, which systematically ruined the Transport Company so that it could then hand it over. The company that received the contract, the Škoda Transportation, which was bought for 800 million, suddenly gained the value of the contract for 19 billion. This contract, if my information is correct, and I consulted both Bohuslav Svoboda and Mayor Hudeček, did not have the opportunity to discuss it, because it was simply concluded by the Transport Company in which the representatives of Prague were sitting, but they did not turn it over for discussion, and as soon as someone as insignificant as the mayor tried to acquire and break into this contract, he could not do so and needed to hire legal services. This is where we get that contract with an appointed lawyer for 850 grand. The koruna he was supposed to investigate, how an inexhaustible contract was made for 19 billion. Now here's the point: who did the D.A. accuse? The one who signed the 19-billion-dollar contract. in an inexcusable way and binding and burdening Prague with this contract and not giving it a glimpse to the board, or to the one who tried to get to the contract, dismantle it and germinate it and figure out what was behind it? Well, whoever tried to investigate! That must be charged! As in the case of Opencard, we arrested an official who worked with the police, and the prosecutor accused him and made it worse in court by not cooperating with the police, so here the prosecutor does not investigate those who signed 19 billion here. In an inexhaustible way, but he's investigating whoever tried to uncover it. This means that we are once again on a strongly indicative example to punish the one who tried to uncover the organized plan. And of course, at the moment the mandate and immune committee voted against the extradition, the whole building fell. That means it wasn't just the police in my opinion, it was the prosecutor and the Prague state's attorney, and it wasn't the one stupid $850,000 contract, it was how to cover and drive away those who tried to break the deal for $19 billion. So much just to clarify, because it didn't work out here. I apologize for the length of the performance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u33	I thank Mr Gabal. Now, with a point of fact, the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u34	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to my colleague Gabal. As much as I agree with everything he's said here, I can't agree that we're talking about this right now. He said, "What are we talking about now?" We're talking about the treaty - and now he's described it exactly and faithfully, including the dark corners. But unfortunately, we're not talking about it here. We would discuss this if we gave Mr Svoboda and we had reasons for it, but we are not giving him up. We are talking about the fact that the law enforcement authorities first smeared Mr Svoboda, dragged through all the media, and when he was spit enough, they dropped the charges, so he can't even defend himself against him. That's what we're talking about here. And I just repeat that both the police and the state prosecutors are part of the executive for which the government of the Czech Republic is responsible, and the government is politically responsible for this absolutely outrageous behavior. In this sense, I will also propose a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u35	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u36	Thank you. I agree with Mr Kalousek on your behalf. I just wanted to provide information because a lot of people in the House don't know what it is. And I'd just correct his tiny inaccuracies. Someone must have filed a lawsuit against a Member of Freedom. Who do you think it was?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u37	I thank Mr Gabal. Another duly registered member is Mr Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u38	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take this a little bit more widely, too, but I think it is fair on this issue to address this as a systemic problem and not as one failure in one case to Mr Liberty. First, I will say, as the question has been asked here to some extent, that I feel accomplice to what situation many representatives and politicians have come to, that we have simply looked too benevolently at how police and prosecutors are beginning to pursue politics as such. It was caused by some kind of atmosphere, and I don't blame the government today. We're accomplices, and I know very well that we have, unfortunately, handed this over. But at this point, this government is ruling, and if anyone is to put an end to this, it must be this government. In a number of cases, in the last parliamentary term, I pointed out that extradition to prosecution, Parkanová example, is absolutely absurd for things that she has undoubtedly not committed. Once again, the story of a man who has at least ruined his life when nothing else ends up being zero. At this point, we are in a situation where the Ministry of Justice, if I do not want to say directly the new Minister of Justice, who, I say again, has nothing to do with it, apologized to three former Members, for which, if you remember well, the government has fallen here with great pomp, 400 militants have joined Prague, who have declared that this country is corrupt, that it is necessary to stop the distribution of the newsrooms so that the Supreme Court will then cancel this whole thing, and today the Ministry of Justice has apologized and paid these three colleagues, who I really have no reason to love after what has been troubling us here in the last parliamentary term, pays big compensation. I'm kind of asking the Minister of Justice if they're going to prosecute Mr. Ištvan and Mr. Šlachta if the executive power is ready to hold someone responsible for the fact that at least 1.9 miles. from this country was quite apparently spent unnecessarily, quite obviously on the decision-making of someone who should be responsible for the decision-making and nowadays does not claim responsibility at all, hides in Olomouc and faces: I nothing, I a musician. Dear State, pay for my stupidity! I think it's absolutely unbelievable. [[15.30 hours]] The second thing I wanted to mention. The Supreme Attorney General has given some sort of analysis. the case of prosecuted municipal politicians, in which they faced with their own godliness: everything is fine; there are actually few who are prosecuted, when we count all the representatives in this country, it is no problem. Last week, the Union of Defenders released only from the evidence that they were able to gather, of course, not the perfect evidence, but it is the evidence of the defense attorneys, the Union of Defenders has issued a rather extensive material that I recommend you to read and study precisely for the criminalisation of the municipal policy, in which they point out the number of cases that have been conducted in the last ten years. They show such things that, for example, in those 70 criminal proceedings that were conducted against municipal politicians and representatives of the communal sphere, only in 8 cases was corruption. Everything else is made up - you've misspelled some assignment, you've voted wrong, we're not showing you a millimeter of taking anything, but I'm sure you've done it wrong. Out of a total of 42 criminal proceedings finalized, 60 per cent of the criminal proceedings were terminated by the fact that they were conducted as unlawful. This is not a number that is common in other criminal matters, if the lawsuit comes to court, we have 90-95% conviction. In this case, only 40 percent of people are actually tried, 60 percent are prosecuted unnecessarily with all the consequences that my colleagues have mentioned here. Even if I leave those corruptions that are relatively simple, 78 percent of all prosecuted representatives have been prosecuted, and they have been prosecuted unjustly. Nearly 80 percent of the people who are publicly scandalized by the police and prosecutors in this way are not subsequently convicted. I think that's just a big, big problem. The Supreme Attorney's office has been very alibiscious about this only in the cases it examines. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister of Justice to request a new report on the basis of this information through the entire system of prosecutors. I think it would be a good idea for the government to actually address the issue - because it is within its competence to give general guidelines to the system of prosecutors on criminal policy, which, of course, cannot lead to specific prosecutions - to address the question of whether there are completely absurd situations here that people are absolutely unnecessarily prosecuted only for a different legal opinion. Different legal opinion - if I have an opinion, if I can follow it. Here comes an authority active in criminal proceedings that says: no, I took another opinion, or even for your two opinions I took a third, and I claim that you should be prosecuted. And the same law enforcement authorities, when we want them to be held accountable, they say, no, that's my legal opinion, I can't help it, I don't see the Supreme Attorney General of Olomouc, Mr. Ištvan, that he was wrong and that he cost this country as much as it cost. So I would ask very much that the government actually pursue the problem. I'm not saying that's the problem she caused. I admit there's a lot of guilt on us, but I think that's the problem that's haunting this whole country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u39	I thank Mr Benda. Furthermore, with a factual remark, Mr Kostřica. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u40	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return a little to recent history here. In the time of history - Prime Minister Nečas and his current second wife, as far as I know, passed here officially in the media that the police were listening in on the private phone of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. When you look at it, it's just a terrible thing, and I don't know, it's a person who has information that no one else in the Czech Republic has but the Prime Minister, the highest politician. And I do not understand how our allies can connect to us on the one hand, on the other hand, when we are officially listening to the phone of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. I think that's the kind of thing we should think about, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u41	I thank Mr Kostřic. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the rapporteur's final words. He's not interested. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail. President Miroslava Němcová is reporting for a detailed debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u42	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am before you with the motion for a resolution, as was the result of this proposal from today's meeting of the mandate and immunity committee. The motion for a resolution is as follows: Chamber of Deputies 1. Notes the withdrawal of a request from the Police of the Czech Republic for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda of 26 January 2015, 2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Minister of Justice of the Czech Republic and the Minister of the Interior of the Czech Republic for an explanation of the conflict between the law enforcement authorities in the matter of the request of the Police of the Czech Republic for the extradition of a member of Bohuslav Svoboda for criminal prosecution. This was the way the mandate and immune committee acted, and these are the two proposals that I was assigned to make before the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u43	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek are also in favour of the right to vote. After that, with priority rights, the Minister of Justice. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Before I present my proposal in a detailed debate, I ask that we be able to judge the term independence in a modest and slightly different way than the Czech media does. Because, according to our Constitution and according to our legal order, independent decision-making is limited to the courts. We love talking about an independent prosecutor's office. According to our legal order, the D.A. has no independent decision-making. It shall exercise impartial powers. Likewise, the Police of the Czech Republic - we all care about it being impartial, but it cannot have independent decisions because both the State Prosecutor and the Police of the Czech Republic are already part of the power of the executive, i.e. one pillar of power, the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately - and now I could talk about my long discussions with the Supreme Prosecutor, when I asked him very much and warned him that the law enforcement authorities have completely different interpretation opinions for the purposes of practice than the professional guarantor, for example in the case of the State Property Act or the Ministry of Finance Award Act. And long-term opinions, please - in the days of the Russians, the Sobots, the Kalousek. The central government authority, which was entitled to issue interpretation opinions for the purposes of practice, held for a period of 15 years and thus held some legal certainty. Then any cop or prosecutor came in and started to interpret it diametrically differently. And instead of calling up some expert seminar and trying to unify the interpretation of Czech executives, there was a struggle survey. The Treasury has been saying it like that for 15 years, but we've been telling it differently since tomorrow, which is why we're reporting criminal charges. [[15.40 hours]] These are the examples that I can name here now. Many of these people were acquitted, the state had to apologize, pay compensation, but the practice remains. I have asked the Attorney General many times in vain, for I have always believed, but I am a layman that his task is to unite this jurisdiction. Give interpretational opinions. He was always afraid of that. He never did it. So we have this mess here all the time. However, none of this relieves the government of its responsibility. I stress that this responsibility was also borne by the government of Petr Nečas, because I, as Minister of Finance, took these initiatives during the reign of Petr Nečas and the government of Petr Nečas had no power to unite interpretation opinions for the purposes of practice. I'm here to claim responsibility. However, this does not relieve the Czech government of the highest political responsibility for the fact that part of the executive - because I repeat again, the state prosecutor does not have independent decision making, the Police of the Czech Republic does not have independent decision-making, it is part of the executive, and the government of the Czech Republic has a top political responsibility. The executive bodies have clearly exposed our fellow Member of Mr Svoboda to injustice and injustice. Even in a way that doesn't allow him to defend himself. He was soiled, and when the task was accomplished and he was soiled enough, the charge was dropped. He doesn't even have anything to protest, he can't be released or charged anymore. Once again, the government has the ultimate political responsibility for this. I would therefore like very much to support the motion for a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister for a public apology from Mr Svoboda for the injustice and injustice caused by the law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u45	Thank you, Mr President, I have tried to sign up for a motion for a resolution. Now the Minister of Justice has the floor with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u46	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I have listened very carefully to the whole debate, which is a debate on an extremely serious subject, but, frankly, a subject which is not just about politicians at all. Let us remember that anyone who is prosecuted and turns out to be innocent is severely damaged in his surroundings. That applies to every single person. And there's nothing we can do, it's always happened, it's happening, it's happening, it's going to happen. Without wanting to lighten the debate, as far as I know, a situation is described in the Book of Shadows of Storm when it happens to some members of the Fast Arrow. The point is, this just has to exist, and it's just a question of how much we're able to limit it. It is noteworthy that it is the opposition that today calls for greater political ingers to work as prosecutors if, about a month ago, the Ministry of Justice has sharply criticised if it has tried to limit the independence of the state prosecutors in any way. This is due to the fact that the problem is really complex and all possible movements are double-edged. We believe that the only thing we can do is not to secure some kind of intervention tool for individual management, we cannot allow that to happen, but that this is an improvement in the quality of the management. Because in fact, if anyone believes that if an expert opinion is made and a number comes out there, so whoever buys or sells something for anything that deviates from this number in any way, he went wrong, so that proves the considerable ignorance of economic reality. So for this reason, we're working on a new law on experts, because I think the problem is mostly the problem of experts who put that one number there, that's completely absurd. We are working, as you know, on the preparation of a specialised prosecutor's office, whose goal is to have people there who understand it. I mean, a lot of the problem could go away. But the reason I got off at this point is different. It is that I quite think that I can just do what is required in the motion for a resolution, i.e. explain the conflicting process. The situation is simple there and, paradoxically, it is precisely the case where the control mechanisms that are set up in criminal proceedings worked for us. Because what happened is that the municipal prosecutor's office, based on the request of the Attorney General, carried out so-called. supervision of the activities of the District Attorney, i.e. checking the accuracy of the procedure of the District Attorney, found that the procedure was not correct, and therefore ordered the District Attorney to take the proposal back because it was found not to be correct. It is somewhat paradoxical if today this honored body is complaining that, although it is only an ex post, it is therefore done in this law, and that right has been found there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u47	Thank you, Minister. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Kalousek, after which Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u48	Thank you. Minister, when you said it was paradoxical, when the opposition now calls for greater political ingence, you either didn't hear us or didn't want to listen or couldn't listen. I admit these variants are not excluded. That's not what we're calling for. We call for greater responsibility. After the greater responsibility of executive bodies, even after the greater responsibility of their politicians, who, of course, set them a mirror of the social demand. You and your party boss have made a political career based on the screams of "all thieves, all thieves, lock them all up, he'll take over." It is logical that the law enforcement authorities that answer to you hear this social demand and act as irresponsiblely as you do in their public appearances. And here we are calling for nothing but greater responsibilities for politicians to not accuse anyone so badly without any evidence, as you and your party boss do, and we are calling for greater responsibility for law enforcement authorities, because when they decide to drag someone through mud and he's a constitutional official, they must be aware that they are liquidating him at the time of his extradition. And when they withdraw the request, they don't even give him a chance to defend himself. And that's your responsibility, as a result of your irresponsibleness, and I think the government has to answer for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u49	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Gabal, following Mr Stanjura, the President of the Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I would use your help, because the Minister is new here, so I would introduce myself to him. I am a KDU Member, and therefore I am coalition. Minister, if you don't mind, I'm a coalition MP. I'm not an opposition MP. And one more thing. Perhaps it wouldn't hurt you to read the final report of the Opencard investigation committee, and there you would find a lot of facts about the state's attorney's activities, from which you didn't understand the essence of this place. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u51	I thank Mr Gabal. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura, Mr Fiala, then the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u52	My colleague already said it. I'd like the Minister not to be in the way of statements we haven't said. This is such a popular political discipline - I believe that my political opponent said something, even though he did not say so, and then I strongly oppose it. We were talking about responsibility. I read in the media last week, even in those who own the first Deputy Prime Minister of this government, that the government is preparing a change of law and that the mayor will be materially responsible for the wrong decisions. I find it strange and wrong. Let's see how it's written. And we're asking about the responsibility in particular cases of specific people when the state was damaged. It's not about interfering politicians with anything. It's not like we want you or anyone else to call someone and say, "Stop this, drop this, check this out." I have heard from government politicians that they want to have more insight into living cases so that they can answer journalists' questions, etc. We haven't said any of this, but we're ready to talk about responsibility. That's the second coin of being impartial. It's okay. But he has to take responsibility for his actions. And also material in my opinion. Or will nothing happen? Do taxpayers always pay for all this when someone's wrong? I don't think it's the right way for taxpayers to pay for it when someone's wrong. I'm not looking for bad intentions, I'm only looking for unprofessional performance of the type, which then forces you to sign an apology agreement for the Ministry and pay compensation. This is not a matter that has been influenced by any politician, whether government or opposition. This is based on a court decision. But then the responsibility clearly arises and we simply ask - and not only in this case, that is one of many cases, I agree with you, whether it concerns only Members or mayors, those cases are more obvious, that is the only difference. Unfortunately, the others are not so visible and there are some who may suffer even more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u53	I thank Mr Stanjur. With another factual remark, Mr Fiala, followed by the rapporteur, Mr Plíšek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u54	I will also address the Minister. Minister, when you were watching the debate, I'm sure you noticed that it wasn't just the opposition. He's already told you that, Mr. Gabal. They were also coalition members of the government, because many Members who follow and pursue these cases feel that something wrong is happening here. I'd like to make this very simple for you. This isn't some weird policy. This is a clear situation. There are mistakes here. These mistakes occur repeatedly, and they occur more often than in other cases. Moreover, these errors also result in the damage that the State must pay. And it seems logical to me that if we know that something doesn't work, that there are mistakes, that there is damage, that we're dealing with it. I've run a lot of institutions, and if I had a situation like this in front of me, I'd say to myself, either people are failing or there's a fault in the system, but something's wrong, and I have to do something about it. Well, you're in a situation where you should be doing something about it. So don't think of it as some opposition game, think of it as a problem for this company that you have to face somehow. And that's what we want you to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u55	Thank you. Now, rapporteur Plíšek, after him, to Mr Igor Nykl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u56	Good afternoon again. I also dare to respond to the Minister, who praised the amazing supervisory and supervisory function of the state's attorney. However, it is interesting that the supervisory prosecutor's office did not enter this case until the time when the mandate and immunity committee repeatedly acted, when it came to a conclusion that all members of the committee agreed to recommend either not to issue or abstain from voting. This means that the House of Deputies was nearing the meeting, where - I do not want to anticipate - Members would most likely be inclined to refer to the recommendation of the mandate and immunity committee, and on that basis suddenly this request is withdrawn. There's one more thing I want to point out here. The prosecution hasn't been stopped. It goes on. The police have merely withdrawn their application for the extradition of Mr Svoboda. So it's possible that once the request is re-exploited, it will add some more information, so in some time here in the same case, we'll get a new one. If the Chamber of Deputies had decided on the basis of a recommendation from the mandate and immunity committee, it would no longer be possible for this to happen during the term of office. So this is indeed a perfectly functioning supervisory function of the D.A.'s office! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u57	I thank the rapporteur, Plíšek. Mr Igor Nykl, now with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u58	Good afternoon. I would have two things for the opposition Members who have performed here. First, to Mr Kalousek through the President. I also consider the case of Dr. Svoboda to be unfortunate, but please Mr. Kalousek, do not use the terms "the task has been accomplished, man has been soiled and we are moving on." Let whoever gave the assignment say otherwise it's such a high five and it's unfair to everyone. So this is for Mr Kalousek. And to Mr Benda. He's defaming the Attorney General of Ištvan here. I think the symbol of worse prosecutors is the names of Grygárek, Rampula, Vesecká. Mr Ištvan could certainly have made some mistakes, but he showed, for example, who actually ran the Czech Republic that it was not the government that ran it, but Mrs Nagyová. That's a great act of merit. We don't know what's gonna happen next, but I wouldn't blame him the way some of us are trying to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u59	I thank Mr Nykl. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u60	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond. The phrase "the task has been accomplished" follows - and Mr Kalousek is absolutely right in this - from the simple thing. State's attorneys and police officers are assessed by how many charges they're gonna make and how much they're gonna charge, not whether they make sense or not. So from their vision of the world, the task was accomplished. They don't give a damn what happens to the person who's been charged. And the outcome of the proceedings will not show at all on their salaries or on their service procedures. So from this point of view, yes, the task has been accomplished. As far as Mrs. Nagyová is concerned, I take it a little unfairly, these notes, but here I am declaring that I have been minister for a year and Mrs. Nagyová has not driven me at all, she hasn't spoken to the resort at all, and there are many of these resorts. Save this stuff for the reporters from the Young Front and don't drag them here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u61	I thank Mr Blažek. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u62	If I ever got into a lawsuit, which I've never done before, even though there's a lot of writing about me... [[Laughter from the left side of the hall.]] Well, it never really happened to me. I never needed a lawyer. So if this ever happened to me and I needed a lawyer, I'd marry Dr. Blažek, because now he's defended me in a pretty sophisticated way. But I'll be more honest. I meant it hard. I believe that the task of someone who purposely wanted to tarnish the Professor of Svoboda has been fulfilled. I don't know who it was, but I'm convinced that the assignment was there, that the assignment was granted and the task was accomplished. Maybe it's a more honest statement from me than when someone says they're stealing everything, because if they're all, so are you, Dr. Nykl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u63	Through me, please. Thank you. No one else is reporting for a detailed debate. I ask you once again if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. It's not like that. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking the rapporteur for the final word. It is only a motion for a resolution, so I will ask the rapporteur to present the various motions for a resolution, and I will put them to a vote. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I still have an application for check-out. So I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We have two motions for resolutions. The first is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Němcová and Mr Kalousek. I ask the rapporteur to lecture them gradually. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u64	Yes, so one more good afternoon. Mrs Němcová proposed the following resolution: Chamber of Deputies I. Notes the withdrawal of the request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda of 26 January 2015, II. asks the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior for an explanation of the conflict between the law enforcement authorities regarding the request of the Police of the Czech Republic for the extradition of a Member of Bohuslav Svoboda for criminal prosecution. That is what Mrs Němcová suggested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u65	I'm asking if you wish to vote separately on these proposals or together on both at the same time. If there is a general agreement and no one is protesting this procedure, I will begin the vote. I am opening the vote on the resolution, as the rapporteur has said, and Mrs Němcová has proposed. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 58, registered 150 Members, for 148, against none. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u66	Mr Kalousek proposed a resolution in the debate which would be referred to as III: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to apologise to Mr Bohuslav Svoboda for the injustice and injustice caused him by the law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u67	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution by Mr Kalousek. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 59 vote, 152 Members of Parliament are registered, for 41, against 32. The motion was not accepted. We therefore adopted the resolution proposed by Mrs Němcová. I thank both the rapporteur and the Member, and I conclude on this point. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I, with full humility, accept the result of the vote on my motion for a resolution, just to point out that we have now made clear to the public that we ourselves believe that it is possible to cause injustice and injustice to someone, but that it is not possible for the person with the ultimate political responsibility to apologize for it. That's what we just voted for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-31-ps2013-026-04-001-123.u69	Thank you to President Kalousek. Before we move on to the next point, I still have a note from today. At 16 o'clock, Mr Stanislav Huml apologizes and Mr David Kádner apologises for family reasons all day long. We will now proceed with point number 30, which is
