ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-012-046.u1	46. Government bill on liability for and management of offences 555/ - first reading This point will also be given by Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-012-046.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law on liability for offences and proceedings relating to them constitutes a general regulation of the conditions for liability of natural, legal and entrepreneurial natural persons for offences. The draft law also provides for proceedings before administrative authorities in which offences are to be dealt with. The principle of proper liability is to become a unified concept of offense, replacing the concept of administrative offense. In accordance with the current situation, the natural person will be responsible for the offence on the basis of fault, legal and business natural person then regardless of the fault with the possibility of absolving himself of liability. The aim of the bill is to remedy the shortcomings of the current regulation and to ensure a clear and predictable application of the liability for infringements by the administrative authorities. This is to be achieved in particular by bringing the conditions of liability for offences and other administrative offences to date into one law. At present, there is no general adjustment of the terms of liability of legal and business individuals. These are now scattered in about 200 different laws, where they are also dealt with inadequately, and only the decision-making practice of the courts fills the gaps in this area. This situation has been criticized for a long time. Furthermore, the draft law provides for a special sanction procedure before an administrative authority based on the subsidiary application of the Administrative Code, which is a modern professional regulation. The new regulation will make the infringement proceedings more effective and, at the same time, establish procedural guarantees for the defendant of the offence corresponding to the obligations arising from the Convention on the Protection of Children's Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as required by the decision-making practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The introduction of an increase in qualification requirements for authorised officials in infringement proceedings will also contribute to improving the quality of management of infringement proceedings. The authorised official will have to have a higher education at least in the Master's degree programme in the field of law at a university in the Czech Republic. If he does not have such an education, he will have to have a higher education in a Bachelor's degree programme in another area and in addition prove professional competence by a test composed at the Ministry of the Interior. In order to create sufficient room for administrative authorities to provide sufficient staff to carry out the infringement agenda, the draft law provides for a transitional period until 2022. In addition, there is a defined group of official persons who will not be required to meet these qualification requirements for their age and experience in dealing with offences. Furthermore, the draft law contains a new regulation of the limitation period, the expiry of which is the end of the liability for the offence. According to the proposal, the length of the limitation period will be 1 or 3 years, depending on the severity of the offence. The possibility of interruption of the limitation period is provided for. In such a case, the maximum limitation period is set for 3 years, for major offences for 5 years. The introduction of the Institute for the interruption of the limitation period responds to the problems of the current adjustment, where, after a one-year period after the offence has been committed, the offence can no longer be discussed, and in a number of cases this time is insufficient to punish the perpetrator. The bill envisages creating a regular review of offences that will help create an image of administrative punishment on individual sections of the public administration. The summary of offences shall contain data relating to each of the facts of the offences committed in a given calendar year. These data will be able to serve not only in the quality control of the performance of the agenda, but also in the basis for changes to legislation. The summary of offences will always be processed by the competent central administration within its scope. To this end, the competent administrative authorities, including municipal and regional authorities, will be obliged to send him the necessary data. The central administrative office will have to complete the list of offences by the end of April following the year for which the review of offences is processed and publish the summary on the Internet. Thus, an overview of offences in a given section of the public administration could lead to the establishment of a criminal policy concept in the area of administrative punishment. The bill includes a number of other partial innovations that take into account modern trends in administrative punishment. Following the model of the Criminal Code, e.g. regulates the settlement as a form of diversion consisting of an agreement between the accused and the injured, which will be approved by the administrative authority. In such a case, the accused shall declare that the offence has been committed, shall compensate the injured party for the damage committed by the offence and shall deposit, on behalf of the administrative authority, an amount intended for public use. The administrative penalty for the publication of the decision is newly introduced. One purpose of this administrative penalty is to inform the public about unfair commercial practices of legal or business individuals. Since a good reputation is of considerable value to these people, it can be assumed that the threat by this punishment will have a deterrent effect on them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-012-046.u3	I thank the Minister for his opening words. And also here I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Lukáš Pleticha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-012-046.u4	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the Minister for putting this almost exhaustively. So I'm not gonna go back to the legal stuff, but I'm gonna point out another thing. Dear colleagues, if it doesn't look like it, we're standing at the beginning of actually the biggest recodification of misdemeanor law and administrative punishment. The current adjustment, system and logic of this modification was valid for more than a quarter of a century. It was created, accepted by our predecessors in 1990. It was one of those first and important laws that set new principles in civil society. Of course, many things have evolved since then, both in the field of public administration and self-government. Self-management has been given new competences. In some ways, administrative punishment has developed. The various facts of the offences were different in each area, subsequently with further adjustment they ceased to exist. Today, really, if you look at the initial provisions of the current criminal law, you can see that there are a lot of amendments. In some ways, the caselaw has also been applied in the past decade. We also had to adopt European principles. And the main point is that punishment for administrative offences must also be subject to the same regime as punishment for crimes. In this respect, all the guarantees granted under national law to the accused should be interpreted. So basically, it's kind of a little criminal trial. And the way that the existing legislation is actually from another time when other priorities were, it has become obsolete, and as it has been supplemented in various ways, it has become inconspicuous. This, too, is why this historic moment is taking place, and we, after a quarter of a century, are actually approaching the most important recodification of this area of administrative law. I hope the laws will be released by first reading. Then I expect the main expert debate on the committees that will be ordered to discuss it. I think there will also be the right time to talk about individual institutes, what to leave, which option to choose, because, as you know from the explanatory report, there are several variations in some things that are relevant. That's what I think will be the right ground for the details. Thank you for your attention at this point, and this concludes my word as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-012-046.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his introductory words, and I am opening and opening a merged general debate on paragraphs 45 and 46.
