ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-012-027.u1	27. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended /German Press 358/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková and I would also ask the rapporteur Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to come to the rapporteur's table. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-012-027.u2	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I finally have the opportunity to present to you a bill which would certainly bear the overall name of the amendment to criminal law, namely the Criminal Code. It is divided into four amendment points. Each of these points is watching something different. What is common to them is that one of the points is the implementation of European directives. Here we are already in such a significant delay that we are at risk of infringement proceedings and of disrespect for European Union law in the field of environmental protection. That is why it is important that we move this proposal forward to the next reading. The aim of the amendment, which concerns the Criminal Code, is to respond to the new regulations of the European Union, the requirements of certain international organisations in the area of combating corruption and money laundering. Basically, it can be said that these are partial changes, they are not fundamental conceptual changes and result from our international and European commitments. Basically, by having the criminal code sufficiently adapted to European standards, it is about fine-tuning, addition, refinement of both the facts and, where appropriate, the increase in criminal rates. So I would like to introduce the four groups of changes to you in the following order. Firstly, it is the proper implementation of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks on information systems and the replacement of Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA. The directive defines acts to be regarded as criminal in all the countries of the European Union and calls for a specific minimum level of the upper limit of the criminal rate for these offences. Otherwise, we comply with the requirements of the directive, we have the facts already incorporated into the criminal code, so that we only need to adapt the amount of the criminal rates, which we are doing by proposing a change in the criminal rates. Secondly - and this is the most important in terms of possible non-compliance procedures, virtually. inadequate implementation - it is criminal protection of the environment, where a substantial part of the requirements based on Directive 2008/94/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on criminal protection of the environment is already being transposed, but it is necessary to add some of the facts of the offences to the character of the subjective site, that is, to blame, and here in the form of gross negligence. So it is neither criminal sanctions nor the substance of action itself, but it is a clarification and extension of criminality for acts committed out of gross negligence, or, in essence and result, a tightening of criminal sanctions, as imposed by the European law already cited by the Member States by means of its directives. Thirdly, it is a response to certain legitimate requirements that have been raised in the Czech Republic's evaluation report on the incriminations approved by the group of states against corruption - we know it as GRECO - within the third evaluation round. This is to complement the facts of the offence of indirect bribery pursuant to Section 333 of the Criminal Code, the penalty of a person who is promised a bribe for acting by his influence or through another person on the exercise of the authority of an official person, since, in the current legislation in force, we already have a criminal offence under the de facto nature of indirect bribery such action when someone asks or accepts a bribe for acting by his influence on the exercise of the authority of an official person, or even that he has already done so. So, just in the sense of the recommendation, we're expanding the negotiations explicitly, which is that someone is going to take a bribe. So he not only asks and accepts, but also promises a bribe. Finally, the last group represents our proposal as a response to the demands of the Committee of Experts for the evaluation of measures against money laundering and terrorist financing, where, on the basis of this recommendation and the report from the fourth evaluation visit, the criminality of the conspiracy in some particularly serious forms of crimes against property must be introduced into the Czech criminal law, namely in the case of the crime of sharing and legalising proceeds from crime. The criminality of the conspiracy should apply to all fundamental facts, that is to say -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-012-027.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm gonna interrupt you. I'll ask the House for peace! Please, if you are discussing matters other than the amendment to the Penal Code, do so in the foyer so that the Minister can present his reasons calmly, because this is a rather serious matter. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-012-027.u4	Thus, both the fundamental and the qualified facts should, according to the proposal, introduce the criminality of the conspiracy. The option of introducing the criminality of the preparation for these offences was not chosen on the one hand because of the requirement of international agreements for the explicit punishment of the conspiracy of all the facts, on the other hand, because this procedure, which has been proposed here and which may be discussed more, would require an increase in the upper limit of the criminal rate for both offences under Sections 214 and 216 of the Criminal Code so that, at least in the last paragraph, both offences comply with the condition laid down in Section 20 of the Criminal Code. This means that these are particularly serious crimes, and that would mean an absolute comprehensive systemic change, for which there is no reason at all. Thus, the introduction of the criminality of the preparation for the criminal offences of sharing would mean, in increasing the upper limit of the penalty rate only in the last paragraph, that the preparation would be criminal only for acts where the value of the case or benefit would be more than CZK five million. However, it should be added that this change, which would lead to the fluctuating of the criminal rate system for these offences, could be compensated in some way if we considered introducing the new facts of the pre-completed crime, as we also proposed in the Justice Department, but, as the criminal law working group of the Government's Legislative Council did not approve us, we abandoned this proposal. Moreover, international, especially European regulations, do not force us to do so. So before making any complex change and questioning the concept of preparation that concerns all crimes, we have chosen a minimalist option, and we are really just introducing the criminality of the conspiracy in those two crimes, and we think that nothing else needs to be done at this stage. There is no need to introduce changes or propose and accept changes that would actually undermine the whole system of the general part of the Criminal Code. So the amendment tabled in its entirety is absolutely necessary in order to comply with the requirements of European Union law. In the event of her non-acceptance, we are at risk of the proceedings I was talking about. I therefore ask for your positive assessment and, of course, I am available for any questions or comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-012-027.u5	I thank the Minister of Justice Helena Válková and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-012-027.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, from the hustle that was here, I see that you are very interested in this issue. Nevertheless, I would like to comment on this. I'll take it from the back the way the secretary took it. I believe, to that last point, i.e. Paragraph 214 and 216 of the Penal Code, I believe that the proposed proposal, which, in Sections 214 and 216 in the first paragraphs, is intended to insert a new aline, which reads "Who is associated with the commission of such an act...", does not exactly describe the requirements contained in the report from the fourth evaluation visit of experts' committee on the evaluation of measures against money laundering and terrorist financing, which resulted in the requirement to regulate the punishment of shares in accordance with Section 214 and the legalisation of proceeds from criminal activity under Section 216 of the Penal Code and to include the preparation of such acts. [[12.00 hours]] In the area of legislation and related institutional measures, evaluators have recommended the criminalisation of participation in the commission of all types of money laundering, preferably by an explicit provision in the Criminal Code, that the preparation of a criminal offence of legalisation will also be criminal. If the Minister has spoken of demanding a conspiracy with us, which does not exactly describe preparation, because an agreement of two or more persons is considered to be one of the forms of preparation to commit a particular, albeit indeterminate, particularly serious, crime, whether explicit or concurrent. The content of the conspiracy is either future accompliceship, or for some members of the conspiracy it is future perpetratorism and for other future organizing or assistance. This is not possible for the two offences mentioned, because in the basic facts the penalty rate is only four years. Unfortunately, it is not possible to introduce preparation even in the fourth paragraphs, because the requirement of a penalty rate is not met for at least 10 years. Another form is the commission of participation as aggravating circumstances, but I will not burden you with that here, because it is a professional matter that we will probably be dealing with on the Constitutional Legal Committee. However, I believe that a more appropriate adjustment procedure, which would certainly meet the request of the expert committee, would be the inclusion of new paragraphs in each case, for these two specific offences, which would be referred to in paragraph 5 "preparation is criminal', as we have, for example, in the case of property offences included in Title 5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course, this would mean raising the penalty rates from the current eight to ten years in the fourth paragraphs, so that these acts become particularly serious crimes to which preparation is directed. Here I remind you that in its programming statement, the government has an unnegotiable fight against all forms of corruption, serious economic crime, usury, abuse of executions and unfair insolvencys. The adaptation of the above facts and thus the introduction of the criminality of preparation, that is, in all possible forms, not merely the association as one of the five forms, would certainly be more optimal and we would have met the requirement better. I assume that this discussion will be conducted if someone does not propose the return of this material to recast that this debate will be conducted in committees. And I will certainly be presenting amendments on this issue. As regards the other requirements that you have under points 4 to 13, I have no reservations about this because we are acting in line with what the European Union requires of us, and these are just, say, technical measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-012-027.u7	I thank the rapporteur Zdeněk Ondráček. I am opening a general debate in which I have one application so far, Mr Antonín Sed. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-012-027.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Madam Secretary, Dear colleagues, thank you for bringing the Minister here to us in detail with the proposed amendments, including the adjustments to the fight against corruption. I merely remind you that perhaps each of the previous governments, and thus the current coalition government, has defined itself against corruption in the programming declaration. There is a strategy to combat corruption and there is a debate on concrete measures to reduce corruption behaviour. I would like to mention that a number of studies analysing bribery take the view that a more effective view of combating corruption compared to the threat of criminal sanctions is the possibility of cooperation between the person concerned and the state authorities. There are several fundamental factors that show that voluntary cooperation between people based on a comprehensive approach by the state is more effective than the threat of punishment. The first factor is that voluntary cooperation and comprehensive programmes providing it can lead to the suppression of the legal uncertainty of potential perpetrators. Taking into account cooperation in criminal law is a prerequisite for voluntary cooperation between potential offenders, in particular active forms of bribery. The basic legal institute in this respect is the legal regulation of effective regret, which should be adapted to corruption offences. The reason for its introduction is that the crime of bribery must be preferred to prevent the consequences of the crime from affecting the interest and disability of its perpetrators. I have personally proposed in the past to return to our criminal order an institute of effective regret, so far it has failed, and an institute of effective regret for the crime of bribery. Therefore, I would ask the guarantee committee to discuss and propose this amendment to the Criminal Code in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-012-027.u9	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa for his speech. I'm asking who's next in the debate. I don't have a written application, I don't see anyone from anywhere. I'm done with the conversation. There was no motion to return or refuse. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary? [[No.]] The rapporteur? Not either. We're going to deal with the draft of the commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for consideration to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will proceed to vote number 65, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 65, from the present 154 for 124, against 1. Minister Zaorálek reporting? No, it's not. So I'm going to erase it from the fact that it doesn't apply to a factual remark. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee. The time limit for legal proceedings shall be 60 days. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with paragraph 27. The next item on the approved agenda is
