ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on higher education institutions and on the amendment and addition of other laws (the Higher Education Act), as amended, and some other laws (the German press 464/ - second reading) Under the authority of the government, the draft bill will be presented by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová and I will ask my colleague... I will not ask my colleague Mihola because he is duly excused. So I'd like either one of my fellow committee members or the chairman of the committee who... So we'll do it by committee resolution, and the committee will recommend another. Madam Secretary, please take the floor, and in the meantime, I will prepare a vote on the alternate rapporteur. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I therefore introduce to you the Government amendment to the Higher Education Act at this stage of the debate, i.e. before reading the amendments at second reading. As previously presented, the amendment includes a system of evaluation of the quality of universities, new rules for accreditation of study programmes and the introduction of an institutional accreditation system as a framework in which a university achieving certain qualitative standards will be entitled to independently develop study programmes for a specific field of education, and to create conditions for independent professional decision-making on accreditations. It also regulates the position and operation of foreign universities and their branches in the territory of the Czech Republic. In addition, it deals with the topic previously discussed, this is the issue of expiry of the higher education diploma and the procedure for refusing the appointment of a lecturer, taking into account the protection of good faith and the right to a fair trial, while at the same time correcting certain partial shortcomings of legislation, possibly supplementing legislation on the basis of practical experience so far, such as charging applications for recognition of a foreign document on higher education. With regard to other related changes, some other laws therefore relate mainly to ropes relating to the complexity of the proposed changes in the amendment to the Higher Law. The results of the discussion of the proposal after the first reading are therefore such that the proposal was discussed in the Committee on Security and in the Guarantee Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. In the meantime, the committee meetings were suspended in the light of the exchange of the position of Minister of Education. As Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, we discussed repeatedly with the Council of universities, with the Czech Rectors' Conference and other experts the amendments tabled. Our goal was to find maximum consensus on the subjects presented. We have also called on experts in these debates and have tried to create the most comprehensive amendment that has been adopted by the Education Committee with partial amendments. [[12.50 hours]] The Security Committee, in its resolution No 76 of 24 June, recommended to the Chamber of Deputies that it should give its consent to the Government's bill, as amended by six amendments. With amendments, I can already update, approved by the Committee on Security, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports agrees. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports also agrees with the comprehensive amendment adopted by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. As far as further written amendments are concerned, I would have expressed myself with regard to those that have been, that is, in the system on the House's website, as has been announced, on the one hand, some amendments will be dropped by the author following the support of the resolutions of the committees concerned, that is the Committee on Security and the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. For the time being, thank you for your patience and for the attention that Members and Members of the Chamber of Deputies pay to the amendments to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u3	I thank the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The proposal was given an initiative by the Security Committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House press 464/1-7. We will now solve the problem with the rapporteur, because the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Jiří Mihola, is duly excused, the chairman of the committee too. Mrs Martina Berdychová, as alternate rapporteur, is reporting to the press as a member of the committee. I will vote for another rapporteur just in case. I don't think we have a problem with that. We will vote in vote number 26. Who agrees that Mrs Martina Berdychová should be the rapporteur for second reading? I've started voting number 26 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 26 of the 170 present for 114. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask Mrs Martina Berdychová to report to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports on this press. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the rapporteur of the Guarantee Education Committee, this is on behalf of the rapporteur for the first reading of the Parliamentary press, Mr 464 of Mr Jiří Mihola, who is on an official visit to China, I have given at least a few sentences to the Government's bill amending the Higher Education Act and some other laws, and I have informed you of the resolution of the Education Committee. The Minister has already made it easier for me to work because, at the outset, she has more or less stated the substance of the press and the course of the votes in the various committees, so I would probably not hold back and I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Education Committee, which was Resolution 134 which the Education Committee discussed at its 18th meeting on 4 November. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, after the reasons given by Minister Kateřina Valachová for the Ministry of Education, Mr Jiří Mihola's intelligence report, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government Bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education and amending and supplementing other laws, the Higher Education Act, as amended, and some other laws, press 464, as amended by the amendments. The amendments are 43. For the sake of clarity, I would perhaps say that the Education Committee has revised resolution 115 on two points. Police Academy, so that does not appear in this new resolution anymore. And the resolution of the School Committee is in line with the resolution of the Security Committee. Mr President, should I give the reasons for the individual amendments briefly or only in the general debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u5	I think that's part of the news report. It's up to you how you take it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u6	So very briefly and quickly. Some of those 43 points. The Education Committee - from changes in kind can be named in particular another way of choosing members of the Internal Evaluation Council, to increase independence, it is further proposed to adapt, respectively. divide the competence of faculties. It is proposed that the guarantor of the Master's degree programme and doctoral degree programme be not only a lecturer or professor, but also an extraordinary professor, if he has achieved a comparable position with a lecturer or professor abroad. It is also proposed not to set a fixed amount of social scholarships in the Higher Education Act, but to establish a minimum wage base rate. And in paragraph 42, it is also proposed to completely delete the amendment of Act No. 341/2005 Coll., on Public Research Institutions, as amended, because it is an amendment of another law which is not related to the amendment of the Higher Education Act and therefore does not belong in the proposal in substance. Other changes are more or less of a legislative technical nature. So much for a brief overview of the changes which are the content of the amendments recommended by the Education Committee or the Security Committee. As far as the amendments to the Security Committee are concerned, they will probably justify Mrs Jana Černochová. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u7	I thank the rapporteur for her intelligence report and now ask the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mrs Jana Černochová, to take the floor and inform us of the committee's discussion and, if necessary, to justify the amendments. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u8	Thank you. The Security Committee has dealt with this issue repeatedly in two levels. One plane concerned the Police Academy, when the Security Committee dealt with formal matters concerning the professors' registry, when we pointed out that there might be some problem with the disclosure of personal data. All the proposals that we proposed and accepted on the Security Committee were adopted in agreement with the Minister of Education, so the Committee recommended all these amendments at its meeting. Then, once again, an extraordinary committee was convened just after the slightly confused amendments that came to us from other committees, which were related to the Police Academy and its exclusion outside the existing system. There, the Security Committee rejected this activity fairly unambiguously, and I am very pleased and thank all my colleagues for making sure that this resolution proposed by Mr Mihola and the statute of the Committee on Education, Youth and Sports were revised. The police academy stays as it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur, but I will not open a general debate because we have just before 13:00, and I would not like to limit those applied for in their right to speak. I'm declaring a lunch break until 2:30. Of course, I remind all members of the Organizing Committee that at 13.03 we will meet in the meeting room of the Organising Committee. Enjoy your meal. We continue after lunch break at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We will continue with the point that we started before lunch break, and this is the government bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education and on the amendment and addition of other laws, the Higher Education Act, as amended, and some other laws. It's a House press of 464, second reading. I ask the rapporteur for this press, Mrs Berdychová, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I will also ask Secretary Valachová to take her place as a petitioner. Madam, if I may ask you to take the position of rapporteur... [[Mrs Berdych places at the rapporteur's table.]] We have interrupted this item before lunch on the item before the general debate is opened, and I am therefore opening a general debate. I'm registering five entries. First Mr Karamazov came forward, Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u11	Dear colleagues, we have a rather ambitious amendment to the higher education law. Even if only a part of the original intentions were left, it could cause a small revolution in Czech higher education, and if we do not get it right, it will do more harm than good. The new system of institutional accreditation, destruction of existing and years of proven status of faculties within the university as well as new regulation of the withdrawal of the title, these are some, but not all the changes that the Czech higher education is to undergo. There is no doubt that higher education, like the whole of society, is going through development and development requires certain changes. However, it must not be about changes at all costs. For example, let us focus more on linking individual levels of education. After all, we want qualified graduates to be at the end and not just a dubious increase in education statistics, which the comrades in Brussels are so happy to count. As a university educator, I have the opportunity to meet our students daily and more and more often with students from abroad. I also had the opportunity to stay at a number of universities abroad and I can therefore compare them. Despite all the difficulties Czech universities face, our students and eventually graduates have nothing to be ashamed of and will stand well in competition. We therefore need to make changes to the complex nonlinear system of our education with care, because more than rapid changes at any cost will benefit domestic higher education long-term stability. I certainly cannot deny the authors of the amendment an effort to change higher education. I am not sure, however, that these are always steps in the right direction. I also miss a larger social debate involving not only the political representation of universities, i.e. the Czech Rectors' Conference and the Council of Higher Education Schools, but mainly students and educators, but also employers and other public. While discussions with those who are most affected by the quality of the education system, i.e. with students and educators, are completely lacking, for an enormous effort to seize all power and subjugate individual faculties of universities, the Czech Rectors' Conference could easily be renamed to the Czech Conference of lobbyists. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now focus more closely on the individual headings presented by the amendment, which I mentioned at the outset and which also concern my amendments. It will be a matter of institutional accreditation, a proposed restriction on faculty rights and several other, rather technical improvements. I will not deal with changes in the withdrawal of the title, although it is a media-interesting issue, from the point of view of the day-to-day functioning of universities it is an entirely marginal issue. The very core of the amendment is therefore the introduction of the already mentioned institutional accreditation. For those of you who are not fully experienced in this area, I will try to explain briefly. Students are now taught in higher education programmes, which are still divided into fields of study. For each field, the university or faculty of higher education must demonstrate the ability of the branch to teach and thus obtain appropriate accreditation, i.e. some kind of authorisation, from the Accreditation Commission. The amendment proposes, in simple terms, that the university demonstrate its ability and quality as a whole and then, in the defined period, it has already created its own study programmes. First of all, I would like to say that I like the idea itself. In many countries this system works. I welcome any change that will make life easier for universities and strengthen their self-government. But I much less welcome the implementation of this idea that the government is presenting to us. The demonstration of quality of education should be based on an internal and external evaluation system. The internal evaluation should be carried out by the university itself, the external evaluation by the National Accreditation Office. First, I'll comment on the external evaluation. The Accreditation Commission is to be replaced by the National Accreditation Authority. Aside from the fact that with a little exaggeration we will have a hundred times larger National Accreditation Authority instead of the Accreditation Commission, of course with a hundred times larger administration and a hundred times more costs, it must be said that some body that evaluates the ability of a university to independently create a study programme must be. It is clear that accreditation activities will still be carried out by the same people who will only regroup and otherwise name and probably more. But if the result of strengthening the accreditation process is real quality and it stops being true that anyone who can hold a pencil in their hands can study at our oversized universities, then I almost want to say - why not? However, I do not understand why the National Accreditation Office is issued as independent when we read directly in the draft law that it will be an organizational unit of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry materially, administratively and financially ensure its activities. Nor do I have to say that there can be no talk of the independence of the Office in this situation. On the other hand, the internal evaluation of the quality of education should be left to the university itself, namely the newly established Internal Evaluation Board. While, in the case of external evaluation, the evaluation body has its reasons, I do not find it in the case of internal evaluation. How can college and any institution evaluate itself? What can be expected of such an assessment? At the very least, a celebratory ode to the rector, to how well he runs college. After all, according to the original proposal, the Rector was to be not only the chairman of the Internal Evaluation Board, but also to appoint and recall all its members. You will certainly estimate how credible the words on the independence of the Internal Evaluation Board are in this case. [[14.40 hours]] Personally, I believe that the institutional accreditation system would be completely without the entire internal evaluation board. With the National Accreditation Authority, I can still imagine certain personnel movements and limited independence, but not with the Internal Evaluation Board. They will be exactly the same people as they do, for example, in the scientific or field councils given by the university. Others just aren't. And it's gonna be hard to convince some of them to do another job. I believe that the existing accreditation application mechanism would have worked, because otherwise it will not be. It will still be the same application for accreditation, which will once again be a hundred times larger and will be called internal evaluation. I do not suppose that there would be an amendment that would abolish the Internal Evaluation Board. For this reason, and in order to strengthen independence, I asked in my amendment that the rector should not be the chairman of the Internal Evaluation Board and that its members should elect academic senators of individual faculties of public higher education, which unfortunately was not accepted in the Ministry's amendment. However, I am pleased and appreciate that at least a slight shift in the right direction is contained in the ministerial amendment. He makes a third of the rectors appointed by members subject to a proposal from the academic Senate and another third to a proposal from the Scientific Council. However, when we realize that the Rector is appointed by the members of the Scientific Council, it is clear that this is only cosmetic change. My second amendment, which concerns institutional accreditation, is rather of a technical nature. The proposed provision of Section 81b so far determines the period of validity of institutional accreditation for the area or area of education for ten years. At the same time, it states that institutional accreditation is granted for a period of five years if the former application has been rejected by the university. In this context, I propose replacing the term "former" with the term "immediately preceding." The current wording makes it possible to impose a penalty in the form of a shortening of the duration of accreditation at any time, even after the university has already obtained institutional accreditation, and has, during the first shortened period, proved that it has been legally granted such accreditation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now dealt with two amendments concerning institutional accreditation and the Internal Evaluation Board. The other three amendments will be rather technical. From the beginning of my speech, it is clear that the proposed amendment to the Higher Law creates a great deal of embarrassment, and not just for me. This is also demonstrated by the unusually high number of amendments tabled. By the time I prepared this performance, there were 21 of them. The eye is a nice number for gamblers, but what does that mean for us? Either the Members are too active, or there's something wrong with the amendment. My third amendment concerns a social scholarship. The aim of the current amendment point 271 is to increase the social scholarship from CZK 1,620 to CZK 2,100. The reasons for which an increase is to be made cannot be accepted. While the cost of living is increasing, the amount of social scholarship remains unchanged for many years, which may create an obstacle for socially disadvantaged individuals in achieving quality education. However, the originally proposed adjustment addresses the problem only with temporary effect, as the fixed amount overrides another fixed amount, albeit higher. In the future, the legislators would be forced, if necessary, to amend the law again in a complex way. The more appropriate solution therefore appears to be to establish the amount of the social scholarship to another figure, which changes regularly. This figure may be the minimum wage laid down by a government regulation. I therefore suggested that a social scholarship be one-quarter of the minimum wage. This will remove the need for a re-regulation process in the future, as an increase in the social scholarship will automatically occur whenever the minimum wage is raised. Thank you, Minister Valachová, for taking my proposal and including it in the ministerial amendment in practically identical terms. The fourth amendment concerns public procurement legislation. According to the current wording of the Public Procurement Act, the contracting authority is considered to be a university as a whole and not its individual faculties. This brings with it several unpleasant conventions, which I have already pointed out in my performances and interventions. The law on public procurement does not only bring good, as many naively think, but the result is often a situation where, if you can even get something under this law, it is an overpriced, miserable quality and takes forever. The Public Procurement Act is a great tool for those who know how to do it. But it's usually not public interests. I appreciate the fact that the words of Prime Minister Sobotka, Minister Šlechtová and Minister Valachová have actually been fulfilled and the intention for the contracting authority to also be faculties has been discovered in the new law on public procurement, which has already been sent out. I will therefore not apply to my amendment. My fifth and penultimate amendment is focused on the functioning of academic chambers of public universities and their faculties. Currently, effective rights place academic senators in the position of barely a supervisory body, which will lose effective tools to influence the operation of a university. Although the Academic Senate is a self-governing representative of a public university or its faculty, if it does not have the opportunity to propose changes to internal regulations itself, the establishment of that body will be almost meaningless. This leads to an undesirable conservation of the state of higher education. The proposed amendment aims to enable members of academic chambers to submit their own proposals for internal rules, which would reduce the democratic deficit in the academic community and ultimately increase the quality of higher education. However, such a proposal is obviously too democratic for the petitioners and was not included in the Ministry's amendment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the last and most important area I will focus on is the legal status of faculties of universities. The current wording of Section 24 of the Higher Education Act confers certain powers listed in paragraph 1 of the same provision on higher education institutions. The faculties can now create and implement study programmes, dispose of the funds entrusted, decide on employment matters or carry out other complementary activities and use the funds obtained from them. The authors of the amendment proceeded to the cheap lobbying of the Czech Rectors' Conference and all the power they wanted to concentrate in the hands of the Rectors. It would be entirely up to the will of the status of a public university which will grant rights to faculties and to what extent. In practice, however, this would mean that all control of the faculties would be taken over by the Rector. It would be such a great concentration of power that the former Bolsheviks could only envy the Rectors. Such an intervention in academic freedoms would be unprecedented after 1989. Let us remember that all important parts of academic life do not take place at the secretariats of individual rectorates, but at the individual faculties of public universities. They are not the Rector, let alone his officials, who would organize lectures and seminars for students and produce scientific, research or other creative activities. On the contrary, they are individual faculties and their academic staff who represent the real engine of academic life. This also means a great responsibility and, of course, it also requires appropriate powers. Personally, I believe that only Section 24, i.e. faculty law, is the reason for supporting the amendment from the Czech Rectors' Conference. Rectors have negotiated their support for the amendment for their absolute power. It is certainly not without interest that the explanatory report on § 24 completely but completely silent. I am really glad that the present Madam Secretary realized the problem that the predecessor had left her, and she tried to solve it. As a result, the four powers which the faculties have under the ministerial amendment continue to belong directly to the law and which will not be able to withdraw the status of a public university to the faculties either. The faculties will be able to determine the internal structure, the self-government, the powers of habilitation and professorship and the new management of the funds entrusted. However, employment relations do not belong to the exclusive rights of faculties even under the ministerial amendment. It does not include determining the direction of creative activity or secondary activity, i.e. the commercial activities of the faculty. Given that personnel costs are usually the largest part of the budget, it is absolutely absurd that the dean of the faculty, who has and will have responsibility for the budget, does not have the competence to work relations. Furthermore, the idea that, for example, the rector's education of the philosopher will determine the direction of the creative activity of the machinery faculty would be ridiculous if it were not meant seriously in the proposal. The results of the faculty's secondary activity should logically be included in the faculty's budget and not the rector's. [[14.50 hours]] Many of you have gone through community policy. Imagine that you are a mayor or mayor and your city owns theater. The director of the theatre is responsible for the theatre, but he won't be able to decide what actors will be in the theatre. And not just that. You as mayor will determine what genre and games will be played. And to make matters worse, the proceeds from the sale of admissions will not be invested back in the theatre, but, for example, in the transport business. How do you think a show like this is gonna work? Exactly this unenviable situation is being prepared for faculties in the amendment to the Higher Law. If, in the previous words, it occurred to you that the mayor can't decide for himself that there is also a council and a council, you're thinking right. But there are no similar democratic structures in universities. No, I haven't forgotten the academic Senate, but it doesn't make any decisions, and it's not independent. It's made up of employees and students. Both groups are very, very dependent on the management structures of the school. Although the Senate approves the budget as a framework document, the various chapters are in the hands of the Rector. This is not the case in a city where all operations are decided by the Board or by an independent council of higher values. Maybe what I was describing doesn't seem so important to you. Maybe you don't think it's a big deal. I mean, academics are just researching or teaching at school, and they're still crying that they're short on money. Yes, funds do not go to education in general, but you may be surprised that the budget of the university in the regional city is usually higher than the budget of this regional city, somewhere around half to two billion crowns. For example, the budget of Charles University is 9 billion. Crowns. If you were distrustful of my words at the beginning, perhaps you're starting to understand why the rectors are fighting so much for the absolute power that all the Mayors might already be envious of. I repeat, no advice, no council. There's only one person who decides everything. So far, the balance is maintained by the existence of a certain independence of faculties. It's usually up to ten. Individual faculties must stand within their university and also in competition with similar faculties of other universities. That's a decent regulatory mechanism. What could happen after the adoption of the originally proposed amendment, in which faculties can lose all rights, you can imagine. I therefore ask you to support my amendment, which gives the faculty the right back. Dear colleagues, in my speech I tried to outline the most pressing problems presented by the amendment to the Higher Law and in some passages I had to be critical. However, I would like to stress that I appreciate the attitude of the Minister who inherited the amendment. I am glad that when dealing with it and other Ministry staff, the original division into coalition and opposition amendments has changed into a constructive debate in which it was not so much a policy as the views and experiences of those who have many years of practice with the management of universities and faculties. This created an amendment by the Ministry, which will certainly improve the original amendment and contains a number of my proposals and proposals from fellow Members. I would have no problem supporting an amendment that introduces institutional accreditation, although so far it hides many more technical problems that I have tried to explain and propose some improvements. However, I cannot agree with the elimination of the basic articles of our higher education, namely individual faculties. I strongly support the fact that we leave their rights to the faculties in full and in no way fair. I firmly believe that you, too, will reasonably consider all pros and cons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u12	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Another one entered in the debate is Mr Karel Rais. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u13	Thank you. Mr President, honourable ministers - they are not here at the moment - honourable colleagues, the period between first and second reading has been used to find a consensus between -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u14	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. In the absence of one minister, I must interrupt this point until at least one member of the government arrives. [[He's waiting for a while.]] Since the Minister and Minister Dienstbier have arrived, we can continue the negotiations. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u15	Something nice, too. The period between first and second reading was used to find consensus between the various representatives of the political parties and to create a comprehensive amendment to the law, as the previous speaker said. I think it's very beneficial. When we look at the process of adapting the law, I think that the Minister is exemplary in this, because it has indeed created room for a broad discussion of all Stakeholder. In the context of what we will be discussing in a few minutes or hours, when, on the contrary, there is a lack of debate, I think this is more of an exemplary thing, because, among other things, it will save valuable time for the Members present. Not everything has been resolved; it is also being dealt with through amendments. It should be seen or realized that attempts to change the system of the entire tertiary education began in 2004 and 2006. This was an effort to change tertiary education and it eventually narrowed down to the novel that we have before us, where there are a number of things completely lacking, as mentioned in the funding of universities, or lack of partly strengthening the role of universities, openness of universities in society and so on. The submitted amendment, which has entered second reading today, is the result of a number of difficult compromises between some interest groups in the higher education system, in particular the Rectors' Conference, the College Board, the graduates' employers and the Ministry of Education. One of the major and fundamental shortcomings of this amendment, which has not yet been discussed here, I consider the fact that the Ministry of Education is still presenting material to Parliament through the former Minister Chládek, with which there is no analysis of the current situation. The last comprehensive analytical work was carried out between 2004 and 2006 on the occasion of cooperation in an international project with OECD experts, who subsequently participated in the production of the White Paper on tertiary education. Since then, of course, a number of partial analytical work has been carried out, but complex analytical analyses, which would be carried out by independent international experts and which would be supported by the strategic development guidelines of the Ministry of Education, have not been carried out. Yet the novel brings some positives. Personally, unlike the previous speaker, I consider a partial strengthening of the Rector's powers in relation to faculties. [[For positive?]] The Rector must propose which powers he wants to entrust to the faculties, of course, after the approval of other higher education institutions, that is to say § 24, it means limiting the rights of faculties, as we have heard here, and centralising the management of the university into the hands of the rector, and this does not like the management of the faculties, but it is also about who bears responsibility in front of the law enforcement authorities. He's the rector, he's not the dean. Possibility of using foreign professors for guarantee of accredited study programs at Czech universities - another positive. Possibility to appoint an extraordinary professor from among practitioners without going through traditional appointment procedures as associate professor or professor. Stricter supervision of the activities of branches of foreign universities - this brings clarity to the higher market, the possibility of eliminating undesirable actors. Students will be able to study a second and another study programme without fees if the previous study programme has been successfully completed. This is related to the existence of inter-branches and also to the fact that one type of education may not be enough for life nowadays. Personally, I consider it a pity that it has not yet been possible to find a consensus in the possibility of setting up a university called Véveček, a public scientific and research institution that, in the form of spin-off companies, would reduce the impact of possible collapse, in quotation marks, some of the central or regional research organisations that have been widely established in EU subsidies in recent years. It would be easier and more flexible cooperation between university staff with practice, especially in the field of applied research, by the newly created vévedíček. There is, of course, an opportunity to promote a similar idea within the framework of the amendment to the Science and Research Act, which has recently been passed at the first reading and which we are actually about to address in the second reading. [[15.00 hours]] However, I would rather see the honourable House reject this amendment to this amendment on universities, the possibility of setting up the University of Věšíčka, or parts dedicated to the refinement of the organisations and the management of the Věšíček as an adhesive that has nothing to do with the amendment and the management system. Since my amendment is basically included in the said comprehensive draft of the Ministry, I will not apply to it in a detailed debate because it is put into this comprehensive proposal. As part of the other amendments, I drew attention to several formal clarifications, whose omissions, however, may cause serious problems. These are Amendments 2678 and 2687 and their content is also included in this joint proposal. I am very pleased that the coalition proposal contains ideas that I have previously put into the information system, namely the possibility to appoint extraordinary professors from foreign or domestic experts who have long-term - in the proposal they are about 20 years old - experience in the subject of study, so they can pass on to students experiences that cannot be gained other than real life. I also consider it beneficial that there is finally a possibility for foreign professors who work at Czech universities and universities to be guarantors of study programmes. These two proposals have been accepted by the coalition and are inserted into this joint amendment. The course of its own accreditation process has been subjected to possible several years of discussions between the Stakeholders. Personally, I am not quite sure that this proposal is optimal for the rapid, correct and professionally-founded course of the accreditation process at our universities. Certainly, however, the establishment of an accreditation body, the professionalisation of the staff of this office and their - at least I hope - independence from the university public will not only bring us closer to the practice and course of accreditation processes of Western European universities, but will speed up its accreditation processes and bring about an increase in university independence, a rapid response from universities to a changing corporate and professional environment. Personally, I believe that a more rigid separation of institutional accreditation from the accreditation of the study industry would be beneficial for the whole process. In this spirit, I have drafted the text of the amendment and put it into the information system. However, I will accept the majority proposal of the coalition, and I will not sign up for this amendment. However, I believe that at least the ideas I have put in there can be used in the development of subsequent sub-legal standards. The point is that the idea of flexibility and the transfer of responsibility to universities is preserved in the accreditation process. We often hear demands, and often justified that there is little money in education. The last time Petr Fiala said this was in the state budget hearing before lunch. Each claim has the other side. If I are to paraphrase the statement of an earlier policy, then it can be said: there are resources in the university environment. The second thing is how they're treated. The extraordinarily great burden of direct teaching led only to bifling and soulless mentoring by students who do not develop their personality, but in particular puts great costs on teachers' wages. The reduction of direct teaching from the grant 24 to 20 hours a week was the strategic objective of many universities 10 or 15 years ago, and look at today's reality. Compared to Western universities, we have two times more expensive teaching in many cases, we need twice as much direct teaching as English universities for the same degree. This is particularly spicy in organising the few really common study programmes with foreign universities that Czech universities have. Why is that? Because we do not behave managerially because we are many times in the position of employment office, which for some individuals in universities without publishing and scientific activity ensures their existence. Of course, every farmer knows that if he wants a cow to milk him, he has to put a good quality food in his trough. It is not possible to build the prestige of universities without corresponding financial subsidies. But at the same time it is necessary to watch and audit how funds are used in the resort, as faculties and universities reduce the cost of operation and often also teaching. I see another mistake in the reckless transfer of academic freedoms outside the university system. First of all, we have to tell each other what academic freedoms are. That definition was made for us in the 1940s by American Professors, the American Association of University Professors, who declared the principles of academic freedoms in 1940. Acclaimed academic freedoms include, in particular, full freedom of research and publication of results in the performance of other academic duties, full freedom of expression in teaching outside controversial subjects that are not related to the subject of teaching, and guaranteed freedom of expression, while academics must respect the fact that they are to some extent public opinion makers. I would like to give an example of the appointment of professors as president of the Republic from media-interesting cases of handing over, or removing academic freedoms. I believe that if the academic community represented by the Scientific Council of the University shows its willingness to appoint a specific lecturer for its lifelong teaching and scientific research work as professor, then we should not pass on this process of appointment outside the university environment. It is clear that this is a nonsystemic step when the entire professorship process takes place within the department, and then, when the proposal for appointment occurs at the Ministry of Carmelite, figuratively speaking, officials run with it to the monarch. Rather, we should develop and support academic freedoms, not get rid of them because of the dubious glaze of one-off communication with the President. This ritual, which brings us closer to Byzance today and to Eastern countries rather than to traditional university countries of Europe, such as Italy and England, could, in my opinion, remain on university or resort soil. To make it very clear to everyone what I want to say: The appointment of a professor should remain in the hands of the Minister or of the Minister of Education. The appointment process concluded at the level of the Minister or Minister of Education is a guarantee that the awarded professorship will be of about the same quality and will be accepted within the entire department. We'd probably find a series of pros and minuses of the proposed novel. However, I would like to conclude by stressing the fact that it is absolutely necessary for the administration of the Ministry to give permanent attention to the issue of the quality of universities, their funding and also the methods for increasing the prestige and seriousness of teachers within our society, not only of higher education, but of all levels, that is, from kindergarten to primary schools to secondary schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u16	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, also for your contribution. And now let me welcome to the guest gallery the delegation of the foreign committee of the Parliament of Albania, led by its President, Mr Arta Dade. Welcome, please. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Thank you. We will continue to discuss this point. Mr Jan Zahradník will be the next to speak properly. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u17	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to devote myself to the presentation of my amendment by two perhaps less significant provisions of the proposed bill. However, both of these provisions relate to one species of the three species defined by our law in relation to universities, namely private and possibly public universities. The first provision is formulated in Section 60a and relates to education in an internationally recognised course. The text of this section always explicitly states that only a public university could award these courses which would lead to internationally recognised accreditation. [[Unintelligible]] it also lays down the conditions under which a public university can carry out these courses. It seems to me that it is not possible for this privilege to be granted only to public universities. Why couldn't these courses also be provided by private schools or public schools? [[15.10 hours]] Therefore, I propose that an adjective, an adjective "public" be released everywhere in Section 60a in relation to the terminology of the university. Thus, in the text of the section after adaptation, it will be possible to provide these courses to all universities. Further provisions concern the recognition of foreign higher education and qualifications. This is allowed again in accordance with § 89 of the Ministry, i.e. meant the Ministry of Education, or in other cases again in the original text only public university, which carries out a content-like study programme. I don't think there's any reason for the recognition of foreign higher education to be decided next to the Ministry only by a public college. Therefore, I propose that, in Section 89, at the same time as the university, the adjectives "public" should be deleted in all possible relevant falls, and I also mention the text of § 89 after the change. Similarly, this issue concerns the following section 90, where again in three places I propose that the adjective "public" be deleted in the corresponding falls at the colleges' terms. If this proposal were accepted, these two things, relatively minor, will also be provided to private or public universities. I have inserted my amendment into the House system and will sign up to it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u18	Thank you, too. Before we continue the debate, I will read the note I received. Today, from 16 o'clock, Minister Milan chovanec apologizes on account of his duties, from 14.40 to 15.30 for reasons of work Mr Klaška apologizes, from 17 to 19 o'clock today Vice-President Petr Gazdík apologizes and from 17 o'clock from today's meeting Mr Josef Novotný apologizes. We will continue the debate. Another duly registered member is Mr Svoboda. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an amendment to this law before you. I will then sign up for the amendment in a detailed debate. Of course, the Higher Education Act is a law that has actually been on the table in some form for many years, has been going through some development, and it is certainly very good that the Higher Education Act is undergoing some amendment. However, what is its fundamental mistake at the beginning of its creation, that enormous pressure developed by the Rectors' Conference and thus created a variant which, as my colleague Karamazov said here, created a kind of power structure which will essentially decide on faculties. We have to realize that we have universities that are different in size and that some faculties are bigger than other universities. We need to realize that these faculties have a different range of activities. We also need to realise that today we have faculties that have a third of their listeners from foreign listeners, from listeners who pay for their studies in some form, and of course it puts different demands on the faculties, which the university as a whole is certainly unable to handle. We've already had one major change in faculty status in history. The faculties were originally legal entities independent and were subject to the regulation of the law to universities. The change that has taken place has brought a number of problems, and to this day some things in the faculty simply work worse precisely because those powers have been removed from the faculty. This is one issue that should be dealt with and dealt with in this law. We also have the other plane, i.e. National Accreditation Authority. I have to say here that I'm in some kind of conflict of interest because I'm a member of the current Accreditation Commission, so I have a slightly different or more detailed view of this matter. Of course, I have a general problem with the formation of an office that will have officials, that it is an office that will not be independent, but will be directly subordinate to the Ministry of Education. On the other hand, I know what problems the Accreditation Commission has, because she should actually guarantee that specific universities actually meet the standard of higher education, and de facto the Accreditation Commission is the one that gives the Ministry the basis for the fact that it can guarantee that the higher education is carried out in quality, which is required to e.g. at European level, those output titles and professional qualifications were based on comparable education in all countries of the European Union. It's very simple in medicine. This education must be such that the doctor is able to pursue the profession of a doctor in all the countries of the European Union. And here we get to a problem that may be better solved by the accreditation office, and it's a problem that should be heard here, because it's so easy when someone meets the terms of the accreditation, the education is good, it fits all the parameters and requirements. Then the process is very simple and it doesn't matter if it's the Accreditation Committee or the Accreditation Authority. But we are actually getting into a situation where everyone is trying to get higher education. Few realize this, but if studies and higher education run on a financial principle, it is a very interesting way of doing business. Unfortunately, not always in the intention is the second intention that education should be of good quality. If the National Accreditation Authority is able to guarantee, in a much stronger form, that when teaching is not good, the accreditation will be terminated in a certain time space, and it will also guarantee that the Institute, which loses accreditation, will not be allowed to continue to accept for study, i.e. It won't open the variant that came out today, that we have students whose faculty, whose university has finished, and they have nowhere to graduate, but it's only because whoever runs it, the facility, didn't keep all the agreements that were made with him, that they either have to change the education system, supplement the missing teachers, and got accreditation for the graduation period, and he didn't keep the agreement, accepted other students until it finally got to the point that we have hundreds of students who have completed the faculty, the faculty stopped working, and they don't know where to study. If we regulate this by law, the accreditation device must have the power to decide on these matters as if in a one-stage manner that the decision to terminate the accreditation will be predictable, clear and inconclusive. What remains lacking is that the Accreditation Commission can only be composed of some experts and that it will certainly not be an entirely independent facility under the head of the Ministry of Education, we need not imagine that, and the possible pressure on the office will simply be concentrated very simply, and maybe the function will not be as we store it in advance. [[15.20 hours]] But what bothers me as a former dean, as a person who has spent his entire life in college, is limiting the powers of the faculty. Because I believe that a number of faculty powers are inalienable, that it is not possible for us to have centrally managed individual faculties with different character, different funding, different possibilities, and that there must be a range of activities that cannot be removed from those faculties. And that is the essence of my amendment, where I divide what is called faculty law into three groups. One group states that the faculty authorities have the right to decide on these matters, unless the law provides otherwise, and these matters are listed by tax. The second group says that the authorities have the right to decide or act for the public university in the scope laid down in the Higher Education Statute, i.e. It is a matter that will be decided at the level of the academic Senate and the entire university's leadership, and that college will adjust this by its own statute. And, of course, it can be different in different universities, because what is important for the faculty is different in faculties of technology, in faculties of humanities. The third group is that the faculty authorities will be able to decide on matters of public higher education if they are entrusted with the status of higher education as such they currently have. I think that this adjustment would remove a number of problems that the monopolistic draft of the Rectors' conference contains. He would also address labour relations issues, because employment relations for the faculty are essential. It's the nice example with the actor, but it's the exact same example - if I want to accept an expert in some form, I have to have that opportunity. It is not so easy to negotiate with a foreign worker his contract with the faculty and to transfer it to a university that will decide within some of its considerations and links. Employment relations should be able to influence the faculty and it is hidden here in the fact that it will be treated with the status of a university, a specific agreement, a specific delegation of that competence in employment relations. Because, on the other hand, by changing the status of individual faculties and not having the legal authority, it is clear that the breach of employment relations then criminally and otherwise falls within the college as such, so that it must be adjusted in some way. I would appeal very much, colleagues and colleagues, to consider and accept the many things that have been said here, which my colleague Karamazov has already said. Again, universities educate our experts. They have a different character and different needs, and those needs depend on the needs of individual faculties. If we don't give faculties a certain range of powers and responsibilities, quality, the scope of teaching will certainly suffer. That centralist leadership from my life's experience isn't that much of a bargain. And I'm just gonna say to my colleague Rais that my view of a professor's appointment is different. I see it as a kind of historical connection that we have here. I don't see it as a trip to the Balkans. I see it as an effort to make a professorship at the highest possible pedestal, as people then see it, that it was something that was decided by the university and decided on such a function and the quality that we need for education, that the highest head anointed in the state took over, and at the highest level there was an appointment act. It's just like fitting a knight. He did those services, earned them somewhere, and finally he's a match for the monarch. And when he kneels, he taps his shoulder with a sword and doesn't tap one of his staff on his shoulder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u20	Thank you, too. Mr Opálka is now reporting with a point of fact and Mrs Dobešová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u21	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, the factual point is not to directly follow up on what was just said, so I would take advantage of this situation with the question of whether the Ministry of Education is able to solve the problem that I learned this Monday. There is a major problem in demographic development in the lack of qualified doctors, particularly in certain professions and certain regions. And as I learned, increasing students in universities is not a solution, because of the total number of students there are about one third of the countries abroad with English language, the second third is from Slovakia, and only one third is from Czech countries, and about one quarter of them leave after graduating abroad. So we're getting into some serious troubles that even if we were to increase the numbers that could be studied at medical schools, it's not yet to ensure that we're dealing with this problem of lack of doctors. So my question is, how is the Ministry able to deal with it, because it is, on the one hand, in determining the number and species of economic security given by the faculties, because they, of course, behave in the market and it is better for them to secure cash money from the very foreign destinations. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u22	Thank you. Madam Secretary is claiming priority rights. He wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u23	All I'm going to do is respond to a question this directly asked very quickly. Of course, given the autonomy of universities and the tools that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has by law, they do not really allow for any dramatic action to be able to solve this problem. From the point of view of the situation within not only the profession of doctors but also the medical non-medical staff, we have done only so much that in the meeting of the representative commission at the Ministry of Education, which here sets out recommendations on how the budget for the following year will be broken down, we have responded that we are currently counting on increasing the number of seats in the study programmes aimed at medical faculties. However, you are right that this is not a sufficient response, because even if we succeed in luring our students from the Czech Republic into the future, it will not be until five years from now. In this situation, I believe that the main instruments are the Ministry of Health, and I will, of course, communicate with the Minister of Health on this matter. It's not some minister's ping-pong on my part. Personally, I think it is necessary to find agreement with professional and trade unions representing doctors and nurses, how we will be able to respond to material and personnel conditions. Because we have recently become even uncompetitive towards the Slovak Republic. [[15.30 hours]] So, of course, it is unpleasant for us in view of the structure of students from the point of view of one third of Slovak students who have previously remained very often on our territory in our medical facilities, but with regard to the steps of the Slovak Government recently threatening to return to the Slovak Republic to a greater extent. I know about the problem, I think the Minister of Health knows about it too, and so I will take the liberty of promising that we will give Members and Members some feedback across the political spectrum. If we don't do that, I suppose we'll be called up as part of the interpellation, but we will, of course, take action. But the Ministry of Education doesn't have direct instruments. And there's always a need for a consensus with universities and universities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u24	Thank you. Mr David Kasal is still making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u25	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will respond very briefly to both previous speakers. It is not only about preparing what is being prepared, but the quickest solution is also to reduce the paperwork for which many nurses and doctors leave our system. And I think it's going to be done quite quickly, and it won't take five years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u26	Thank you. Ivana Dobešová, now duly applied for. Mr. Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Members of the Government, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues, let me also speak here with the justification of my amendment in the general debate. I think my previous speakers have said that the amendments to the Higher Law here in the House have not been discussed very often. This is unlike the Regional Education Act, which has already had many amendments since 1990. Yet I will allow myself to put another dimension and one dimension into this novel. It's a dimension that kind of sends us to higher vocational education. I believe that if I say that word here, some of my colleagues who come to the House of Higher Education will not see red in front of them. Don't worry, I don't want to change the university law in any way, but in my own way, I want cooperation between higher vocational schools and universities to be enshrined in this law and to be legislative. My point is that it is possible to legally recognise deans or rectors of the previous partial education on the journey of students to a professional bachelor. There are currently higher vocational schools, which are very high quality and which are close to their fields of bachelorship. They do not have the ambition to interfere with the programmes of higher education bachelors, however, by the fact that there are two institutions, higher vocational schools and higher education schools which educate students in similar fields, higher education in the Czech Republic is increasing. In other words, a student who, for example, achieves a degree in agricultural business as a diplomat must enter the first year and study a professional bachelor for the next three years to improve in the same field. I don't think that's the point, because basically what happens is that a student who either has already been admitted to a bachelor's degree or hasn't dared him, and that's why he wanted to improve his education and went to a higher education school has reached a bachelor's degree in six years. We are constantly struggling with saying that there is little money in education. I believe that there is not so little money in education, only it is necessary to look in the reserve system and not to dribble things that can be connected in some way. We're short on teacher salaries, teachers are already the worst-paid college-educated people these days. We're short on money for supplies. And this might be the way not to raise money into the resort to find these funds at least partially. Therefore, I took the liberty of adding point (d) to paragraph 1 in Section 68, which deals with the area of recognition of education, which states: "the recognition of examinations or the fulfilment of other study obligations and the prescription of differences tests, including the recognition of examinations carried out in a study programme carried out in a university or faculty study programme and the recognition of examinations or other study duties or courses or other complete parts of studies completed in a higher education programme accredited.' I mean nothing more than to leave the deans of the faculty to acknowledge the partial education of those graduates of higher vocational schools who want to achieve a professional bachelor in the same field. It's basically happening today. It is built on bilateral contracts between higher vocational schools and universities and it is only on the will of enlightened deans and rectors who are not afraid of humiliating the number of students studying at their faculty and the lower influx of money to run these faculties. I would very much like you to support this part of my amendment, because this merely opens up legal space for the deans to assess whether they can really recognise some of the tests. Another part of my amendment concerns standards for accreditation in the quality of education programmes. When I was studying the amendment to the law, I realized that when setting standards, we dropped the part that is already happening today, and that is education in foreign languages. The faculties educate many, whether only in subjects or have their entire fields set in English, yet this is not discussed in the standards for accreditation. Nor is it mentioned that there is any cooperation with foreign universities. Therefore, I would also like to add this to Section 78a, which deals with this matter. The text I want to add is that in § 78a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the following point 4 shall be added after point 3: "Special requirements for study programmes carried out in a foreign language, for study programmes carried out in cooperation with a foreign university pursuant to Section 47a and for study programmes for which examinations or other study obligations or courses or other complete parts of study completed in the course of study in an accredited educational programme at a higher vocational school are recognised." Ladies and gentlemen, I would be very pleased if you would consider this amendment. And if you come to the conclusion that it is possible to support him, I will be grateful. Believe me, that's what I'm writing in my explanatory report. I just want to mention that both of these points correspond to the Czech Republic's educational policy strategy by 2020, where it is said that it is necessary to maintain an open approach to a diverse supply of tertiary education, inter alia, in order to maintain open access to tertiary education so that the share of the first time enrolled in the whole tertiary education is maintained at about two thirds of the population year, in particular bachelor's study programmes as a basic level of higher education and higher vocational education programmes must remain widely available. This proposal also corresponds with a document adopted by the Government in August 2014, which speaks in the reform of education in vocational and vocational education, that formal prerequisites must be created for mutual penetration between professionally oriented Bachelor's degree programmes and higher vocational education programmes by adapting legislative standards. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a chance to implement the Government's legislative plan, and I ask you to suspend this amendment and support my proposal. And now I would like to thank all of you who have paid attention to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u28	Thank you, too, Madame. We will continue with the debate. Mr Petr Bendl is duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I know you must leave, which is why I will try to be very brief. I just want to take advantage of the second reading debate on the current matter, which unfortunately affected former students of Jan Amos Komenský University, because by losing accreditation, students have become unstudents in all the years in this field of study. I think there's been a mistake. We have the opportunity in this amendment to the Higher Education Act to correct this mistake in order that, if accreditation is to be taken in the future, only those who should be allowed to enter, that the field will simply be closed and those who are part of the study will graduate, perhaps in some special regime, perhaps in a larger supervision regime, so that it will meet the conditions for granting the accreditation and not open up to other years, however, so that what happened to former students of Jan Amos Komensky University does not happen. As the Accreditation Commission is set up today or as you imagine it in the law, I would certainly not choose the form that the Accreditation Commission will set up as an office that will be almost subordinate to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. That's what I think you're doing with your whip. I'd rather vote as far away from the Ministry of Education as a body of recommendation. But you decided to go this way. I wish you would then listen to the Members who come up with amendments so that this does not happen and that the Accreditation Commission should remain an independent body with the final word of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Thank you for your attention. I was fast enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u30	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is reporting to the general debate. I don't see anyone. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the appellant or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. In that case, I am initiating a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. The first of the entries for the detailed debate is Mr Karamazov and Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to apply to the amendments that I have justified here in the previous general debate. These are proposals under the numbers 2377, 2452, 2453, 2694 and 2988. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u32	Thank you. Next is Mr Karel Rais, and Mr David Kasal will be prepared. Sorry. With priority rights - you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Rais and I have arranged to outrun him. I want to sign up for my amendment, which is inserted under number 2382, as a House document, and I want to justify this proposal briefly. It concerns a change in the way professors are appointed. The change simply means that he would appoint a professor for a particular field instead of the President of the Republic, as it is in the current regulation, the Rector of the university for which there is an appointment, respectively. on which was proposed by the Scientific Council or the Artistic Council. My brief reasoning is as follows. So far, the legislation in force for the appointment of university professors is based historically - a lot of people refer to this too - on the system applied until 1950, when the professors were in a different way in relation to the state, they were in state employment relations, and the fact that they were appointed by the President of the Republic was an expression that they were in some system of public service, which, of course, included universities. This system was significantly modified by higher education laws in force between 1950 and 1989, when ad personam awarded scientific and pedagogical degrees as a prerequisite for the provision to a specific place was introduced in connection with the application of political ideal control over universities. The university laws adopted after 1990 took over these mechanisms, however, that the appointment of professors as president of the Republic was considered in the academic public and in the wider public as a kind of symbolic expression of the state's respect for universities. However, the position of the professor is gradually changing and it cannot be overlooked that although the law in its current wording maintains traditional terminology, that is, appointments, so in the case of the appointment of the professor it is rather a qualification of its kind, which is a prerequisite for the performance of certain functions defined by law at the university. If it is a qualification, it should be subject to legal protection in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, in particular Article 26 (2) of the Treaty. 1 and 2, which is not the case, because the situation where the conclusion of the process leading to the acquisition of a certain qualification is entrusted by the law of the President of the Republic under the counter-signation regime means that persons who are proposed in accordance with the law by the scientific or artistic council of the university for appointment and their appointment is not implemented, which is the case that we are all now witnessing, are deprived of any legal protection. The implementation of their appointment is left to the liking of the President of the Republic, or the outcome of some political pressure and action, which is certainly an unacceptable situation in the rule of law. This is addressed by my amendment, which proposes to entrust the authorisation to appoint professors of a university rector whose scientific or artistic council has proposed in proceedings under Section 74 of the Higher Education Act. In this context, I would like to refute some possible polemic opinions, say that this is not a new, untested experimental proposal. Such a provision or similar provision almost literally works successfully for 25 years in the case of appointment of professors on the basis of habilitation proceedings and there are no problems with that nor is there a problem that the habilitation acquired at one university could not be used at another university. I would also like to conclude by stressing this, and I consider it essential that the proposed amendment is without prejudice to the nature and effects of the appointment by the professor. I'd like it to be that way one day, we'd change it and we'd have functional seats. But we are far from that, and this is not the subject of my proposal. This appointment, as I suggest, is still bound by the State-rightful, legitimately granted, to the State-granted authority of a university to implement the procedure for the appointment of a professor. This rule of law does not affect both my amendment nor is it changed in the submitted government amendment. Therefore, national recognition granted to professions will also remain unaffected, as is the case for other qualifications awarded under accredited authorisations, including the authorisation to carry out habilitation procedures. So basically, it's just that the process that leads to the appointment of professors would be preserved, including the roles of scientific, virtually. Art schools, art councils of individual universities. [[15.50 hours]] All the rules of the game would be maintained, i.e. granting accreditation, authorising the university to carry out the appointment procedure. Nothing would change against the current state, including the fact that the profession is valid throughout the Czech Republic. The only thing that would change is that this definitive appointment would not be carried out by the President of the Republic, but would be carried out by the Rector of the relevant university, as is the case in the case of appointment of professors on the basis of a habilitation procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I will now ask Mr Karel Rais to make his contribution to the detailed debate. Mr David Kasal will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u35	Thank you. I would like to sign up for an amendment to press 464 and my proposal number is 3275. It's basically about the situation where I assume it's before 31. 6. 2016 will start the new accreditation office and we will still have members of the Accreditation Commission, who will be said to be commuting by the public. So the point is that this transitional period is somehow covered, so that these people basically in the transitional period, in order to ensure their own accreditation activity, because it is assumed that the law will take effect on the first day of the calendar month following its publication. And, of course, we don't know when it will be. So this is Amendment No 3275 I'm applying to. As for my discussion, which I also led, to the appointment of a professor, there is no amendment to that. Furthermore, I have Amendment 2867 in the system, but this concerns, this is a technical matter which extends the term 'educational and creative activities and related activities' has been replaced by the term 'educational, creative and related activities'. This one was included in a comprehensive proposal, so I do not sign up for it. Similarly, my opinion, which is also mentioned under number 2679, on scientific research institutions, has been accepted into the comprehensive proposal, so it is also unnecessary for me to sign up for it. I have put a rather extensive amendment on the issue of who will be the guarantor of the Master's degree programme to be a person from abroad as well. It was fully applied in the framework of the amendment, so there is no need to apply to it either. The big amendment was 2868. It concerned the modification and the accreditation process itself. There was no consensus on the committee, so I assume that this proposal can be used in the context of the creation of sub-legal standards. And I also do not sign up for the remaining proposals, because either over time - because it has been put in there since August - there have been a number of discussions over time, when the proposals are essentially redundant. So I repeat, I'm signing up for document number 3275. I said his reasons before. This is an overlap between the membership of existing members of the Accreditation Commission with the validity of the new law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u36	Thank you. I'll read the note that came to me. From 15.30 to 5 pm, Mr. Josef Uhlík apologizes. Mr David Kasal will now speak in a detailed debate and Mrs Berdychová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up for the House document which is inserted into the electronic system under number 3276 to print 464. It's a modification made here by Professor Fiala in part. It's a little amendment, I dare to read it. First of all, in Part 1 of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the words "the EFTA Surveillance Authority' shall be inserted after the words "the EFTA Surveillance Authority' shall be inserted after the word "the EFTA Surveillance Authority'. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it is compatible with the internal market with the internal market. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4. which reads: "If the President of the Republic does not appoint a professor of who he was under the terms of paragraph 1. 1 to appoint a professor proposed, within 60 days of the date on which the proposal to appoint a professor was served by the Minister, the proposed applicant was appointed as professor on the last day of that period. The Minister shall issue a certificate to the proposed tenderer for the appointment of a professor according to the sentence first.' Paragraphs 4 and 5 shall be referred to as paragraphs 5 and 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The following point 283 is inserted after point 282: The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (e) " (e) performs the tasks of the Minister referred to in Section 73." The following points are numbered. In my reasoning, I explain this proposal in the following way. I propose to supplement the provision on the case where the President of the Republic does not appoint a proposed candidate as professor. In view of this procedure, which the President of the Republic has applied to some of the proposals of the Scientific Councils of the Higher Education Institutions referred to him in the Government for the appointment of a professor, I propose supplementing the relevant provisions of the Higher Education Act on dealing with such a situation. This proposal would address a situation in the future where the President of the Republic is inactive in this matter, contrary to legislation. If, within 60 days of the receipt of the proposal, the President of the Republic does not appoint the proposed candidate, the applicant would be appointed by law, on the last day of that period, with a certificate of such appointment issued by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. Similarly, the scope of the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Defence would be adjusted as regards the proposals of the Scientific Councils of the Police Academy of the Czech Republic in Prague and the University of Defence in Brno. The proposals must be voted jointly on by one vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u38	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mrs Berdychová, Mrs Halíková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for two amendments. These are amendments by Mr Jiří Zlatuška's absent Member. The first amendment is inserted under number 2978 in the system and concerns multiple employment conditions. Since these multiple employment conditions, either because of multiple employment or because of the reporting of part-time contributions by sources of funding within institutions, are potentially uneven distribution of active and passive voting rights to academic chambers among different members of academic communities. This adjustment ensures the application of the "one person - one mandate - one vote' principle. This provision applies to Section 70, to which a new paragraph is added, which states that if a person holds a post as an academic worker in multiple employment relationships, he or she chooses one of them as an employment relationship, which determines one university and its part, where he or she is entitled to vote and be elected to the academic Senate of the university or its part. The second amendment is inserted into the system under number 3270 and concerns academic staff. It also applies to Section 70, where the next paragraph is added, that only a person who does not represent the post of academic worker at other universities or has obtained the provisional written consent of the Rector of each university in which he holds the post of academic worker may take up the post of academic staff for the calendar year in which he holds such a post. In Article 2, a new point 3 is added to the present point 2, which is that the employment conditions of academic staff established before the date of entry into force of this Act do not apply to the provisions of Section 70 (1) of the Act for a period of one year from the date of entry into force of this Act. 2 of Act No. 111/1998 Coll. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u40	Thank you, madam, and please get to Mrs Halíková's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u41	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I hereby sign up for the amendment, which is listed under number 3243 in the system. This amendment is very simple and concise and concerns the fact that point 33 of Annex I to the present paragraph 294 is added. 3 to Law No. 111/1998 Coll and this point are: Public administration. The reason for this is that the current inclusion of the study field of public administration under the programme of economic policy and governance in the educational area V - Economics is inadequate and inadequate. Given that some 70,000 positions in government are regulated by the Service Act, which is certainly an important contribution to the professionalisation of state administration, it would be appropriate that the system of educational areas, as a result of the study programmes, should respond accordingly, namely by including the public administration in the existing system. The other points in that article would then be renumbered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u42	Thank you, Madame. I ask for Mr Seďa's microphone, Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u43	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Ministers, Dear Colleagues, Colleagues, I hereby sign up for House Document No. 3302. The explanatory memorandum is set out in the document. For your information, Section 73 concerns the appointment of a professor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u44	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr Zahradník, Mr Svoboda will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u45	Madam President, I am signing up for the amendment that I tabled in the general debate concerning education in an internationally recognised course and the recognition of foreign higher education for private and public universities. This proposal has been inserted into the House system as House document 3305 and I hereby subscribe to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u46	Yes, thank you. I will ask Mr Liberty for a microphone, Mr Laudát will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I hereby sign up for my amendment to press 464, which is listed in the Houses of Documents under number 3256. The reasoning was given in the general debate, but it is also part of the House's press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u48	Yes, thank you. I will ask Mr Laudát's microphone and Mrs Dobešová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u49	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the amendments to this amendment to Act 111 here on behalf of my colleague Vácha and Mrs Putnová. So I'm reading the amendment that's under number 2969 in the system. Repeat, 2969. Reason. You have the following text: Do § 8 para. 4 is inserted in the second sentence after the words "rector or in his representation of the vice-rector," the term "dean of the faculty," Justification: Academic Senates discuss essential documents concerning the faculties of universities, so the right of deans as elected representatives responsible for the functioning of the faculties should be ensured, free performance at the meeting of the academic Senate of the university. This is therefore the amendment of Mr František Vácha. The amendments by Mrs Putnová, who are two, will be longer. They're inserted under 3232 and 3240 in your system. So please, the amendment that is being made in the system and to which I sign up under number 3232. I don't think I'm gonna read any specific changes to the paragraph. Article I is amended, point 10 is amended and point 80 is amended in Article I and a new point 20 is added to the end of Article II. Reason for the first, i.e. Amendment to Article I (10) and to point two, which is Article I, point 80. After more than 15 years of application of the Higher Education Act, it is clear that in a number of academic chambers of public universities, assistants, assistants, lecturers, or other academic staff who have not yet been appointed professors or professors prevail. This may be related to the idea that professors and professors are essentially reserved space in the Scientific Council and participation in the academic Senate's activities is therefore appropriate or useful because of personal utilization to leave to other academic staff. This means that academics who have obtained a privileged position - for example, only the professor's title holder is legally reserved to chair the habilitation or evaluation committee and only the professor or professor is legally allowed to test the state examination without the prior approval of the Scientific Council being required; only the professor or associate professor may, according to the current wording of § 79 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the law guarantees the quality and development of the study programme carried out by or part of the university, respectively. only a lecturer or professor who is an academic worker of a university may, according to the amended section 44 para. 6 Guarantee a Master's or Doctor's degree programme - I continue - participates in the decision-making of the academic Senate in minority terms, despite the fact that they are the ones on whom the scientific and research and educational activities of the university rest to the prevailing extent. Thus, the factual impact of the state of affairs and the current wording of the law is that academic staff who, by their action, form a university, i.e. professors and professors, assume to a minimum responsibility for its co-management, control or supervision, which the academic senate of a public university performs towards the Rector and individual faculties, respectively. to the dean, leaving the above mentioned to those who are less experienced or less successful in the core activities of the public university. In addition, they are often more vulnerable in their position in relation to a controlled rector or dean, as he is the rector, virtually. Dean who exercises substantial competence in the management of the previous acquisition of a privileged position - a lecturer or professor. Since the position of an academic senate in which professors and professors do not play a relevant role can be regarded as inadequate, not corresponding to the legal role to be played by the academic senate, the provision that makes it possible to do so appears undesirable. It is therefore proposed to anchor the requirement that at least one third of the academic senate of a public university is required to be composed of academic staff who have already reached the rank of professor or lecturer. The determination of at least one third reflects the legal requirement for the lowest possible - uniform - representation of students. As professors and professors form a relatively specific group of members of the academic self-government, it is entirely legitimate for her to have her mandatory representation. [[16.10 hours]] And that point 3. The proposed transitional provision is related to points 1 and 2. Its purpose is not to interfere with the composition of academic chambers which were set up before the amendment or whose establishment process has already begun, by declaring elections. The absence of transitional provisions would lead to uncertainty about the legality of already established academic chambers, as well as to uncertainties to the extent that the rules of the elections are respected in the event that the electoral key of the already announced elections does not lead to the conditions required by the amended provisions of the second sentence of Section 8 (1). Article 2 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v))))) (v) (v))) (v) The proposed transitional provision has the indicated problems to eliminate. So it was to the House amendment, which is being conducted in the system under number 3232, by Professor Putnová. And then here I have a second amendment to read on her behalf...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u50	I'll ask my colleagues in the right side of the hall if they have anything to say to each other, so we'll wait for the gentlemen to talk and then we'll continue. I don't want to name it. [[A group of standing Members debating in the alley of the right part of the courtroom began to break up.]] Well, thank you. Mr. Ambassador, please proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u51	You have an amendment under number 3240 in the system, and I hereby sign up for it. And I'm just not gonna quote the specific changes, more like the commentary on them. In turn, Article I, paragraph 244, applies to § 83 para. 1, for the other in the same article, Paragraph 83 (1) is replaced by the following: 4 shall be inserted after the following in the first part of Article I, under point 244 (b) of Article 83 (b) of the present paragraph. 1 - there is a new version or a modified version. For the next article I, paragraph 244 § 83 (b) the new paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 are added; you are in the system again. Fifthly, in Article II, point (14), the words "five' shall be replaced by the words "seven'. For the sixth part, for the second part, a new part of the third part is inserted, you have its full text. Then the fifth title, letter B, is changed, the elements of the member, Vice-President, the President of the Council of the National Accreditation Office for Higher Education. [[There's noise in the room.]] I hope you'll be patient to hear the reasoning.... [[The speaker is silently turning to President Jerman]] As a general rule, the amendment. It is clear that higher education is one of the key areas of state interest, whether because an educated society leads to higher development, such as science, technology, trade or civil society, or because education goes hand in hand with science, research, development, innovation, artistic or other creative activities. College education can only be performed if it is of good quality. The prerequisite for this is undoubtedly that quality assurance will be sufficiently professional, impartial and therefore independent. Probably for these reasons the text of the amendment in § 83 para. The members of the accreditation body shall be independent in their decision-making pursuant to paragraph 2. However, at the same time, it declares the role of the Ministry in the material, administrative and financial provision of the accreditation body's activities, establishes a mechanism for the representation of certain interest groups and, on the contrary, does not lay down almost any relatively objectively assessable criteria demonstrating the expertise of key persons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u52	Ambassador, I'm sorry, I'm listening to you patiently, but I feel like I'm a minority. So I'm gonna ask other colleagues to say what they have to say in the lobby or sit in their seats so you can read your reasons in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u53	Thank you. I would make this very short, and I say quite frankly that this is not something that I am more concerned with in some way. I admit and I was frightened by your predecessor, President, Vice-President Bartošek, who said that they had to be justified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u54	He was right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u55	I agree, but then I'm forced to read it here. [[with a smile]] It is true that impartiality is not enough to declare that conditions need to be created. In general it can be stated that in the conditions of the Czech Republic independence is a conceptual sign only in the courts, judges. In public administration it is then close to the position of some other administrative authorities - there is a reference to some literature. Independence is certainly not given in the case of legal subjection, but it can also be doubted in the case of financial dependence. If a person is a representative of a particular group, or if he has a financial or other relationship with the entities to which he carries out his activity, he can certainly defend impartiality. Since the proposed adjustment of the status and establishment of the members of the Board of Accreditation Bodies exhibits the above-mentioned obstacles to impartiality and independence and does not guarantee sufficient professional prerequisites, several amendments are proposed. In the search for appropriate legislative shifts, the position of different administrations was considered, and in particular those for which singular status is typical - it is the only administrative office - but at the same time the collegial nature, partly the professional qualifications of the members, and in particular the activities of evaluation and decision-making and, where appropriate, the adoption of corrective measures. In this regard, the Radio and Television Council, hereinafter referred to as the RRTV, stands out among all. I feel like everyone just resigned today. In addition to the above, the Authority, which can be considered to be in a certain way independent, which also follows from the legislation, was the position of composition the same as after it became the central administrative system. On point 1 - it is proposed to increase the number of members of the Board of Accreditation Bodies, which is the Executive Authority of the Accreditation Office, to 21. It's consistent with today's number of members of the Accreditation Commission. On point 2 - on salary, Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other obligations relating to the exercise of the office of officials of state and of certain state authorities and judges and MEPs, as amended, rather than by chance setting out groups of persons whose salary, in view of the necessary independence, is to be determined by law rather than by decision of the executive authority. I'm gonna skip another reason. Point 3 - The amendment follows a change in the number of members of the Board of Accreditation Office and also increases the emphasis on the expertise of members, in turn you have a detailed explanation in the system. Point 4 - These are provisions adopted with the necessary provisions under the law defining the status of members of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. To point 5 - the legislative technical provisions which reflect the previous proposed amendments. To point 6 - independence is not enough to declare, it needs to be created conditions, among other things in financial terms. So please give a more detailed explanation, I've shortened it, hopefully it'll be acceptable, you've got it in the system. So, once again, I am applying to Amendments 3232, 3240 and 2969. Thank you for your attention and patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u56	Thank you, too, and please, to Mrs Dobešová's microphone, Mr Tejc will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u57	Madam Vice-President, members of the Government, allow me to sign up for Amendment 3306. This amendment has two parts. The first part deals with paragraph 68 (a) of the CRR. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) supplementing the "opportunity of recognition of part-time education in accordance with the field which the student wants to study at university" Furthermore, in the second part, §78a o para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) where the standards for accreditation are referred to, where the "specific requirements of study programmes in a foreign language, cooperation with foreign universities and the integration of standards for the recognition of partial education of higher vocational schools" are added to these standards. As a justification, I refer to the materials adopted by the current government, the Education Strategy of the Czech Republic by 2020 and the material adopted by the Government in August 2014, which is the Reform of Education for Educational and Technical Education. This amendment of mine is in line with both documents and is trying to implement this statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u58	Thank you. Mr. Tejc's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u59	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to sign up for House document 3265. This is a very economical change of law. In Section 60a, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 2 is replaced by the following: I will make a very brief statement of reasons, otherwise I will refer briefly to the written reasoning which is therefore contained in this document. This is because public universities can provide, either free of charge or in return for training in an internationally recognised course aimed at increasing the expertise of students or graduates of foreign universities. These are already well-known MBA courses, or LL.M., and they are courses that are quite well-visited. In addition, they are carried out in cooperation with foreign universities which validate those programmes. The problem, in my opinion, is that only students and graduates of foreign universities can attend these programmes at our public universities. I don't think there's any reason. There is no reason not to allow our graduates of public universities to continue and study these programmes, which improve their position on the labour market, including in the international market. So this document, this change is therefore under the above number and I dare ask for its support at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u60	Thank you. I have here a factual remark from Mr Pleticha, but I suppose it was a mistake. Yes, I'm erasing you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, so I am ending the debate in detail. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u61	Thank you for the debate. I just want to say that we will, of course, be present within the school committee and continue the expert debate so as to bring the possibility of supporting individual amendments as closely as possible. I consider it crucial to report that I am definitely assuming a debate on the National Accreditation Authority, on its competences, on the balance of its independence. I also assume that there will still be a big debate about the Rector's personnel competences versus the Dean's. Of course, I will be happy to reflect other amendments in the debates within the school committee. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u62	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Before we proceed to the next point, I will include an apology from todayJurečka meeting from 17:00 to the end of the meeting day. For the record - President of the House of Hamáček votes with replacement card number 20. With priority rights, Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u63	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the two ČSSD and YES 2011 MEPs, I would like to make a procedural proposal that we should act today, both internally and in a procedural manner, and vote on all proposals even after 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u64	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u65	I want to call on my colleagues not to support this. We say we have a schedule, if we do, we move on. We were supposed to have three bills on the original schedule today. We're definitely gonna cross that one. We'll cross, we'll definitely discuss more than three bills. It is also due to the fact that we have reduced our speeches quite a bit against customs in the second reading of the state budget, when the usual time was all day, and we did it in the morning. I'm just reminding you that we're from nine - unlike ministers who take turns, so we're here all the time and I don't think it's productive. If there is to be a reason that you want to discuss the Public Procurement Act at first reading - it is an important law, without a doubt, yes. He's got a long way to go, and we don't have to start here at night. We're not gonna finish it tonight anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-002-022.u66	Thank you. However, the procedural proposal has fallen. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'll check you all out. Please sign up with your cards again. I am opening the vote on the procedural motion that the House should act today after 19th and 21st hours - after 19th hour, excellent. [[Disagree from the bench.]] I've got a bunch of factual notes here that I'm canceling. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 27, to which 147 are registered. For 84, versus 48. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. Now we're going to look at the next point, and that's
