ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 426/2011 Coll., on pension savings, as amended /house print 382/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the Pension Savings Act was discussed at first reading on 21 January 2015. The proposal was directed for discussion by the Committee on Budgets, which recommended that this proposal be approved without comments. According to the proposed law, entry into pension savings is to be stopped in advance of the end of the second pillar, thereby preventing an increase in the number of participants before the end of the system. The aim of this amendment of the Act is to reduce administrative requirements in the context of the settlement of participants' resources and to avoid unjustified costs. In particular, this will not increase the amount of funds that have been redirected from pension insurance to the second pillar as a result of the entry of new participants. With the cessation of the possibility of entry into the second pillar, the requirement of 50,000 participants in pension funds shall also be abolished within two years from the date of granting the authorisation to create pension funds. It is also proposed to extend the existing exemption from the investment limit for the initial period of existence of pension funds until the end of 2016. This regulation will also make it possible to invest more conservatively in funds which, according to the Statute and the Law, are not conservatively targeted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u3	Minister, I'm sorry, I'm seeing at least four discussion groups canceling. [[With emphasis:]] And until these groups stop discussing, we will not continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u4	The purpose of this change is, in particular, to protect participants' resources from significant fluctuations in the value of the pension fund assets in the period prior to the termination of the pension savings scheme and the payment of the participants' funds. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to discuss the bill presented at second reading. The proposed legislation will only fulfil its purpose if it becomes effective as soon as possible, in good time before the start of the pension savings due to take place on 1 January 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u5	Thank you. 21 1. at the 25th meeting of the House, this press was directed to the Committee on Budgets. The transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure states that if it is not clear to the House before the amendment is effective, which committee is a guarantee committee, the guarantee committee shall designate the Chamber of Deputies. In the present case, the draft law was directed only to the Committee on Budgets as a single committee, and it is clear that this committee is a committee on guarantee and therefore we do not need to vote on determining the guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as printing 382/1. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, who is Mr Zdeněk Syblík, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the Government's bill was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies for discussion so that the House could agree with it in the first reading under Paragraph 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The draft law was discussed at first reading in the general debate on 21 January 2015 at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The House discussed this government bill in a broad discussion and ordered it to be discussed by the Budget Committee and shortened the deadline for the discussion of this proposal in the Committee by 30 days. During the discussion of this press, the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies was amended and the Committee on Guarantees became a Committee on Budgets. On 28 January 2015, the Committee on Budgets discussed the draft law at its 18th meeting. In the absence of any amendment to the bill on that date, the Committee on Budgets adopted the following resolution, which I will now introduce to you: After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Gregor, Mr Zdeněk Syblík's report, and after the debate, the Committee on Budgets of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament recommends, first, that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies, that the Government's bill amending Act No. 426/2011 Coll., on pension savings, as amended, House press 382 approved without comment, secondly empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have an application for it so far. It's Mr. Vilímec's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u8	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat here what I have said in this press account and the disassembly of the recently adopted pension system at first reading at all. I confess that I was disappointed when he did not even pass the motion for the commandment of this press next to the Committee on Social Policy, as it has always been a tradition, because the Committee on Social Policy has always discussed pension laws alongside the Committee on Budgets. It didn't even go through, and that's evidence of something. As a valued client of pension savings, as I entered the second pillar, I also received a letter from the pension company concerned, which thanks me for my loyalty last year and at the same time conveys the estimated timeline of the retirement savings. In addition, it lists several options on how to deal with the funds that I have so far saved under pension savings. [[9.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I did not enter into pension savings to get out of it again after two years. I have considered this and I still consider it a reasonable opportunity to secure and increase my means of old age compared to the former model. Now came the government of social democracy, YES and KDU-ČSL, which is trying to eliminate this reasonable opportunity for me to ensure old age. In such a case, if this were to happen, the State, for reasons of purely ideological fact, would not have complied with the rules which it had enacted, and it must know well that being a client of pension savings was a serious decision for each party to the decision, a decision from which the obligations of the client, insurance company, but also to the State. If it happens and there is a dismantling of pension savings, I'm sure many of the clients will have a court order. I don't want to talk here about what she has to offer so many times the pension committee led by Professor Potůček compared to the current model. Dismantling, respectively. cancellation of the second pillar and cosmetic treatment of the first and respectively. Third pillars, which certainly do not lead to the desirable motivation of citizens to save on pensions. Yes, even Petr Nečas' previous government assumed that, in view of the development of the hope of a frontier of survival, a system of setting the retirement age limit would be analysed after some time. He doesn't, as you well know, have some ultimate age level because we can hardly predict what will happen in 30 or 50 years. koneckonců all, the report on the pension commission's activities states that the current pace of extending the pension age limit should be maintained until 2044, i.e. for all generations born before 1978. The Commission's proposals under supplementary pension savings are only partial, although some can certainly be applied in the future, some can be discussed - such as income tax exemptions and pension payments for a specified period or a reduction in the minimum age for participation in the third pillar. Ladies and gentlemen, this House press is actually halting the entry of new participants into the pension savings system. That's what the Minister said. In a short and brief explanation of this step, as the explanatory memorandum represents, there is a need to stop new participants from entering, even in advance of their termination, thereby preventing an increase in the number of participants before the end of the system. About termination, or respectively. The abolition of the second pillar has been serious since this government started a year ago. And I don't see any dramatic increases in pension savings. If it were so beneficial for everyone, thousands or tens of thousands of people would have signed up for this pension savings in that year, even in the nature of our citizens. I believe we're still moving somewhere between 85 and 90 thousand participants. Even now, there is still the possibility of entering pension savings and increasing the number of participants. That means, if there's a concern for any speculative reasons, then the public has the opportunity to enter the other pillar now. So I see no reason for us to anticipate something that doesn't have to pay at all. We well know that the coalition partners had different views to end their pension savings, and perhaps even certainly they have different views, and the dismantling of pension savings is only started because they have invested politically a great deal in its abolition, especially social democracy before the elections, unlike other members of the existing coalition. Therefore, in a detailed debate at second reading, I will propose to withdraw from Article I Transitional Provisions, paragraph 1, which suspends the entry of new participants, because in a situation where it is not decided on what the pension system will look like, whether the second pension pillar will actually be abolished, I believe that these steps are very premature and very irresponsible. [[II]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u9	I have here a point of fact from Mr Opálka and then a request for a speech with priority rights from President Kalousek. So first, two minutes for Mr. Opálka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just trying to be clear. As regards the negotiation of this law in the approval of pension savings, although the Social Policy Committee was ordered, the situation was interesting there and the second accompanying one was not discussed at all because the opinion was not actually properly communicated by the Ministry. Well, just so you know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u11	Yes. That was a factual point and now the priority right of President Kalousek. After that, Mr Laudát is duly registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond briefly to the words of Mr Vilímec, who said that the abolition of the second pillar had been seriously started since the establishment of this government. I'm afraid that history is longer, that the abolition of the second pillar was absolutely serious - and not as serious as it hysterically began to speak when it was approved and when it was established. From a purely propaganda point of view, I would like to pay tribute to the hysterical propaganda here, because it obviously impressed, obviously frightened even those people for whom the second pillar would undoubtedly be advantageous, because it would strengthen merit in their pension security at the expense of equality, that they didn't risk it, because they assumed how some historical experience in our country is that someone would come and take it away from them. That was actually a success. I wouldn't blame you, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition, for disturbing the second pillar if you had an alternative. If you had an alternative with which you would be able to accentuate sufficiently within the framework of compulsory pension insurance both solidarity and merit. And we know well, we who have been dealing with this for many, many years, that it simply cannot be done in one pillar, because it goes against each other. The merit you're talking about in the third pillar is already outside compulsory insurance. So if we speak that solidarity and merit should be sufficiently accentuated under compulsory insurance, it simply cannot be done in one pillar. For that, we must have two pillars, where the first one takes place dominantly egalitarianism, in the second one there is dominant merit. If you're disturbing the second pillar, you're disrupting merit in favour of equality and you don't have an alternative. And that's what I blame you for not having an alternative, and you're canceling it. The second thing that you have undoubtedly succeeded in in this false propaganda is to create the word "exorcising." All those who have discussed the pension system have been heard in every other sentence that the second pillar will be spent on pension savings. Of course, that's not true. The second pillar is part of the system and only three percent of the egalitarian pillar was transferred to the merit pillar, but the money remained in the pension system. Nobody made a dime. On the other hand, the parameters of the second pillar were strengthened by the pension system, since to those three percent each adds two more of its own. This means there has been a strengthening of funds under pension savings, not execution. Again, I am stressing: who is talking about getting out of the pension system is lying! Either consciously or because he succumbed to the propaganda, but the money remains in the pension system because the second pillar is, of course, an integral part of the pension system. [[9.50 hours]] If you want an example of a classic exit from the pension system, the classic example is what Minister Babiš recently agreed on in Ostrava. The extension of early retirement, the extension of persons who can retire early, is the withdrawal of funds from the pension scheme in favour of unemployment aid. The money will not be used under the standard pension scheme, but will be reinforced by passive unemployment support, even in favour of a private company in particular, which will facilitate redundancies and appropriate severance payments. That's freaking out. But certainly not the second pillar. That's no freaking out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u13	I have two requests for factual comments. Mr Zavadil, then Mr Opálka, then comes the priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u14	Good day, colleagues, Mr President, dear government. Only through you, Mr President, I would like to correct a little word to my colleague Kalousek, whom I very much appreciate. I don't think it was hysteria. I think it was pragmatism. This pragmatism was based on the fact that the way the second pillar was set up, and you remember very well the arguments that you and I had together about whether or not the second pillar should be set up, so it caused what it did. If it were mandatory, and thank God it wasn't, then maybe the second pillar would have a chance to exist. But you know very well what a disaster it was when we talked about compulsory insurance. It was over 70 thousand. not on servers immediately essential and substantial resistance to this pillar being mandatory. So that's why what happened had to happen, that the obligation had withdrawn, and that left what was left, that means it was on a voluntary basis. And the exit, it's not from the second pillar, of course not, but the withdrawal of funds from the ongoing savings, that's just what was set up here. You know very well that there was also a need to raise VAT so that the funds lost in the first pillar to be added there in some way, because it threatened the existence of pensions that were paid out of this pillar or from this ongoing system. So, yes, it may be an ideological dispute. I can agree with you on that. But I don't think it was hysteria. I think it was pragmatism and that in the end common common common common sense won. And I think the third pillar is a sufficient tool for that - not now, in what position it is, but what can be done about it in the future to strengthen what you want. So I guess that's just my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u15	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Opálka and then Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me respond, too. You know, the egalitarianism here sounded almost like a swear word or a swear word. But the system of the first pillar is not entirely egalitarian. It's solidarity. But if the lowest pensions in this system are around 3,000 and the highest pensions are around 50,000, then the egalitarianism has some dimensions after all. About the freaking out. I don't know who says there's money coming out of the pension system. They went from the first to the second pillar. Not from the system, but from the pillar. Thus, the possibility of solidarity in the first was reduced and greater equivalence was allowed for those who had the power to do so. If you look at who signed up for the second pillar, oddly enough, they're the oldest. So it was about assessing the funds available, not so much about dealing with the pension system. The President has rightly pointed out that he has Zavadil on this - after all, the third pillar remains here. The other was his little brother. It is about how we will work with this pillar. I think the equivalent pillar is also the gathering of property and living from the rent, which is common. In essence, already in Austria-Hungary and in the first Republic, those who had the means to do it were pension security by having assets and renting them. Second-to-last comment on the miners. You know, statistics would do. Not yet. So far, there are researches from the last century, but they say that these people's viability is shorter. That they actually subsidize the system because they haven't used the first system as long as other citizens of other professions. [[pillar]] So actually their argument is that they're subsidizing the system. So this is where we're going to have to dissect statistically. [[Notice of the expiration of the time to note.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u17	Thank you, too. Another de facto Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u18	I don't want to delay, just a brief reaction to two concepts. Equality is not a swear, it is simply a description of the trend that is taking place in the first pillar and will take place. As the human age continues, if God can prolong it, it will tend to be egalitarian. And if we don't find the courage to reform structurally, that will be the final justice. On the left upstairs, I see a generation who's gonna get it when we just don't take any pensions. [[at the gallery]] Then we won't have any of that first pillar, and it'll be fair. That is not solidarity, but equality, and that is where it is coming from. It's absolutely necessary. A calculator and a demographic curve are enough for me to do the math, and you can do the math, too. And just a little comment on the term used by a colleague of Zavadil. All due respect: continuous saving is a contradiction. The ongoing system is the transfer of money between generations at one time. I'll save for myself for a long time. Continuous saving is something that doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u19	One more point in fact, Mr Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u20	Mr President, colleagues, I was deeply touched by Mr Kalousek's words, because I am the person who has been in mining for 33 years and I think, and I have recently discussed this at a trade union meeting when I said that we miners were stupid. When they asked me what I was doing in 1989, I said I was tinkling the keys. But fourteen, seventeen, by the belt in the mine. We used to dig coal all the time, keep trying to follow the plan and get our categories canceled. Today we are the only country in which miners have to work until 67 years old! Miners leave all around us after 20 or 25 years of work. Everywhere in Europe. In that context, I remembered Poland. The right-wing government wanted to take pensions from Polák three or four times. Polish miners went to Warsaw with baseball bats and explained to right-wing governments that they didn't picture it that way. Of course I'm not calling on our miners to use baseball bats, certainly not. But the Polák were different in that way. And I firmly believe that the current government is correcting the things that you, Mr. Kalousek and you on the right spectrum have caused. [[President: Through me.]] Because you sold the miners a roof over their heads, and today we're in a situation where the miners really need to be sure, and the certainty, besides work, is that they get a well-earned pension to live or live. Because it's really true what my colleague Opálka here said that miners live to be considerably younger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u21	Mr Kalousek's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u22	After all, you are right about Poland and our country, Mr Hájek, through the President. Holt Margaret Thatcher was the only one in Europe. It has done so and has greatly helped the British economy and the standard of living of its people. All the other countries that were afraid of baseball bats will end up not taking any pensions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u23	There is no further factual point; the President Stanjura has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u24	Thank you for the floor. First of all, de facto to Mr Hájek, by your means. The OKD apartments were sold by Prime Minister Sobotka, so don't show up. Just for the record. But that's not why I applied. First of all, I want to say on the screen record that I'm a part of the second pillar, so that someone doesn't accuse me of speaking to it, even though I'm a part of the retirement savings. [[10.00 hours]] I want to appreciate social democracy. Really. Some consider it crucial that they can send their people to state businesses, some consider it crucial that they promote their left-wing program. And you guys are really doing it. No surprise the left-wing government is coming up with this proposal. That's what I'd like to say. When I see my colleague Zavadil, it's really nothing surprising. What I blame you for is that you don't come up with anything else. We refuse to be brought into a debate that distracts us from the problems of the pension system. I know it's popular to debate what retirement age will be in 20, 25, 30 years. I find it absurd to discuss this seriously in 2015. Meanwhile, about six times the period of the Chamber of Deputies will come, I don't know how many governments, ideally six governments, before the question is up to date. But some government politicians, especially from the left side of social democracy, consider it very important to debate today. I think the proposal follows logically with the spidey "sources are." A huge battle for the second pillar. And let's see how it is. Less than 90 grand. participants. And if I'm generous and round those numbers up, the first to the second pillar is going to be max. 1 billion. per year. It's less so now, but in order not to say that I'm deliberately misrepresenting it down, I'm going to say 1 billion, and it's more like 700 to 800 miles. How much does the state budget contribute to the third pillar? I don't know if you all know or not, 6.9 billion. In 2014, according to the Ministry of Finance's figures. So let's build 700 to 800 miles. plus 6.9 billion. And yet here we see a frontal attack on the 700 miles. and the seven billion. - and that's a good thing, I say, it's a good thing that seven billion. is put there under the conditions that exist today. I've worked out my pension account statistics for the last six years, which includes four governments, so I don't get accused of bringing up just a few periods. And in six years, that deficit is 240 billion. koruna, i.e. 40 billion on average. there is a deficit per year. The pension is paid annually - last year's number - 385 billion. So if it goes at that rate, and it goes because there's nothing going on, then basically every nine years, we're going to have a year-round deficit in the pension system. Once every nine years and it's more likely to accelerate - now it's going to be once every nine, then it's going to be eight or seven, so in 20 years we're able to have a deficit of three years and that's almost 1 trillion crowns. As we set public finances in order to reduce public budget deficits, the percentage of the pension account deficit increased in the overall management of the state. Last year, that was already in your government, the share was 58.5 percent... 58.5% of the general government deficit is the pension account deficit. It's logical, because there's nothing going on there, where the deficit remains the same, although last year about 5 billion. it fell because it chose a little bit more, but last year too was a deficit of 45.5 billion. Crowns. The solution offered by social democracy and this left-wing government? None. Sources are. We don't care. But someone else is going to do it - in four, five, six parliamentary terms. I don't know what's bothering you about the 90 grand. participants. The numbers clearly show that they're not threatening the equality system that we already have in our retirement days. If you look at how the pension is calculated - and I'm sure the Social Committee members in particular know it, then they have to give me the truth that the pension is very egalitarian, how it is calculated. So we've almost got the equal pension you're dealing with so ideally. We're practically getting him. If you take what the average pension is and how many people take it or are approaching it, it's the vast majority of pensioners. So the biggest complaint on our part - and that's why we can't vote in favour - is that you're interrupting something, but you're not bringing anything else into the system. Nothing at all. You've created a retirement committee that always overrules us and then solemnly announces that the retirement committee has agreed. Well, that's the government and communist retirement commission, they agree. Not the others. There's no point in a retirement committee like that. All you have to do is tell me that you're gonna cancel the coalition contract and you're not gonna do anything new. We don't have to disguise it by some pension committee, my colleagues don't have to waste time being there every time in the vote, so that there are really long debates about cosmetic changes. And that's what Mr. Vilímec said. Some of them are pretty good. We're not saying they're bad. But in the system, in the numbers 45, 50, 40 billion. The deficit in the pension account doesn't solve anything every year. Nothing at all. And you're pretending that nothing's going on, that you don't care, that someone else is going to do it. And that, unfortunately, is true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u25	A few facts, then. Mr. Beznoska, then Mr. Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, many have been heard from colleague Stanjura. I also think that canceling the second pillar without being clear about how we are going to deal with pension savings for the future was a mistake. On the other hand, I think that we had - and I was nominated for the pension committee - to analyse very carefully why, in addition to the political accent that Mr Kalousek here spoke of, that social democracy made very good use of it politically, so we should have argued and discussed how to change parameters in the second pillar. Not rashly and at the first meeting of the pension committee simply announce that we will destroy this pillar. More like the future. If the pension committee comes up with a solution, I believe it will be acceptable to at least the constitutional majority of this House. Otherwise, we will be in a position to address every parliamentary term as fundamental a problem as the pension system. The numbers that my colleague Stanjura said, I'm going to add one - it's also going to sound a little bit like science fiction. But if we continue at the rate of pension deficit, in 2080 this deficit will be 200 percent of gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u27	Thank you. Mr Foldyna with a point of fact, Mrs Černochová will also be prepared with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u28	I'll take one comment. I'm not an expert on pension matters, but math 1 and 1 are 2... And Mr. Spokesman Stanjura here said the numbers of how much the state contributes to the third pillar. Well, he's been messing with our numbers a little bit. So in the second pillar, if there are 80 or 90 thousand participants, then of course the amount is equal to 80 - 90 thousand. But there are 4 million people in the third pillar. Four million people! That's a big difference. Now imagine if 4 million people were in the second pillar, how much money would flow from the first pillar and what it would look like. You guys just made a mess here, you ran it through the sněmovna, and now we have to fix it so those people with some kind of retirement live to life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u29	Mrs Černochová, after that, with the de facto Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u30	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sure the debate on pension savings and its abolition is fruitful. I am missing a rather significant actor here who should be involved in this debate or at least listen to it. The actor, virtually. an actor is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who is missing for an incomprehensible reason here today when discussing such a serious point. I know the rapporteur for this proposal is the Ministry of Finance. But we are talking about the future of the Czech Republic in terms of pension savings, and who other than the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs should listen to this debate, write down our every word and apply these things in practice? For this reason, I am very sorry, but if the Minister does not intend to be here at the moment, I suggest that we suspend the discussion of this point by the time the Minister is here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u31	If this is a procedural proposal, we will decide on it without debate. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. Yes, I'll check you all out. A new registration, please. As soon as the number of people is settled, I will begin the vote. I repeat that the proposal is to interrupt this item until the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is present. [[Members come to the hall in bulk.]] I think we can start the vote. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees to interrupt this point until the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is present, raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 133. It's registered at 157, for 41, versus 105. The motion was not accepted. Now there were several other factual ones. Mr Stanjura is registered with a factual remark, then he was Mr Gabal with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u32	At least Mrs Černochová's proposal meant an increase in the number of government Members in the House, which is a good thing. I would like to respond to Mr Foldyna through the President. I didn't really want to talk about the third pillar. On the microphone, I say I'm part of the third pillar, just to be clear. When he tells me I didn't say the right numbers, he didn't tell the truth. I said the right number, how much the state spends on the third pillar. I told you it was good. You accuse me of manipulating numbers here, but you didn't disprove the number. I didn't say how much it was per citizen. I wasn't talking about that at all. You're the one who's gonna make up another criterion. I was talking about the 6.9 billion. I said it's a lot and it's a good thing. I didn't criticize that. And I compared it to your really strong ideological struggle with the second pillar, where money is not being spent, but it's being transferred. They're staying with the citizens! Even in the second pillar, they remain citizens, no one else! Only the citizens added their money to it, which is actually the same principle as in the third pillar, where you have to have a deposit from at least 300 crowns a month to get anything from the state at all. It's incomprehensible to me, your fight because you're confusing the public. The funds remain for all citizens who have signed up, and the state also contributes in the second - that is where the state does not actually contribute, that is where the citizen contributes. In the third pillar, the state contributes and contributes to those who save a lot. I think the maximum support of CZK 230 per month is for those who save at least CZK 1000 per month on their pension. And whoever saves less than 300 crowns a month gets nothing from the state. I'd like to make that very clear. If you accuse me of not saying the right numbers, either say different, or say I said the right numbers, and admit it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u33	Another factual one is Mr Gabal. Before they arrive at the rhetorical site, I will apologize to Minister Took for today's meeting, for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u34	Hello. Mr President, Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, colleagues, I have already spoken on this subject here last time. From a professional point of view and the way I look at demographic developments, I am somewhat appalled by the debate on the pension system and pension perspectives in this country. It must be borne in mind that the basis of prosperity is the confidence of taxpayers and citizens that we will develop in a relatively stable, rational and consensual environment, at least in terms of what people expect from the time of life, when they will not be able to work and either depend on what they have earned or what they have saved or who will help them. If we don't behave like this, and the fact that there's no rational proposal for an alternative to what we're dealing with here, and that's a shame, no one can have confidence. And it's our responsibility. The cancellation is the result of a lack of consensus between the main players, and basically nobody here cares. Someone even says he's not an expert. It's not about concept. Whatever concept we can create and agree on, then we have to stick to it to give a long-term perspective. Look at the numbers in terms of the share of people in retirement age, how we will evolve over the next decade. A lot of people are dealing with this place in person. And to the edge. I'd have entered a newly opened program if I hadn't heard the harassment that someone would cancel it. My grandfather saved up like this through World War II and the communists came and took it away from him. We're doing the exact same thing. I would urge, firstly, that the pension reform committee actually start working and bearing the results, and secondly, that we act here on the basis that we treat the future and trust people, and not just shoot each other out. [[Time warning]] Thank you. Sorry for the length.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u35	Thank you, too. A point of fact, Mr Zahradník. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of my colleagues has mentioned some historical context of these efforts. I would like to remind myself in this brief article that the matter has been resolved since the second half of the 19th century. The first person to report and submit a work on retirement for old age was Dr. Karel Hein in 1855. In Czech literature we can find a very nice tract written by Martin Pokorný, director of grammar school here in Malá Strana, who provided a nice analysis of the situation in the series Pension Disability, published in the journal for Mathematics and Physics in 1885. He says here: Writers of the disciplines of the economics generally acknowledged the necessary condition to resolve the question of social especially pension security for the old age of all the earning classes. If this is to be decided in the sense of Schulz-Delitzschův's theory of self-help, or according to the theory of Lassallův's state aid, this question is not addressed by Pokorný in his article, but he says that for the purpose of our analysis it is sufficient to state that the main focus of the social issue lies in ensuring the nutrition of every working person for his old age. Whoever takes care of this, whether an individual or a state, is not the object of his meditation. However, it is up to every state to ensure the well-being of its citizens as best as possible and, in particular, to arouse their appetite for savings with the intention that they should help themselves to take sufficient precautions in their old age. This here please Pokorný writes 1885 and we, as you can see, are unable to follow this tendency almost 140 years later. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I think he speaks for everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u37	Thank you. That was the last point of fact. With priority rights, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. Something does not just lift me out of the chair, but what Mr Gabal said here, through Mr President, has lifted me up from the chair. To compare what the government is now presenting to what the Communists have done, that they have taken all the money from people when it is clearly declared that funds will come back to people, I'm sorry, Mr. Gabal, it's incredible what you can put out of your mouth! That's the audacity of the highest caliber to compare communists to what's being translated here! It is clearly said that people will not lose money! What you said here is unbelievable. I apologize to everyone else, but that's what moved my bile.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u39	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr Laudát. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. There's a de facto Mr. Stanjura. Just hold on a second. Sorry, a little hindrance, as we took turns driving. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u40	The rapporteur is very upset that he forgets to address the Members as they should, but this is not important. Speaking of the press, I'd like him to quote us from the bill that says what he said, that all the resources of those who put in it will be guaranteed. Could you, Mr Vice-President, quote this to us when you say something so passionately, where we can find it in this press? I didn't find it there. Maybe I've been looking wrong, maybe it's somewhere in the explanatory report. I didn't even find it there. So if you speak so flamingly about this bill, please tell us, the other Members of the Chamber of Deputies, where we will find it in the press, what you said so flamingly, and how I reacted furiously to the speech of one of the Members in the previous debate. Otherwise, it's just information one lady said. Black on white, I'm sure it's not in the press, but I can be wrong. If the rapporteur shows me that it's in the press, I'll go back to the microphone and apologize to him and to the rest of you for not finding it in the press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u41	Thank you and please now with Mr Laudát's priority right, then the Vice-President of the House of Gazdík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u42	Thank you. I've already taken the priority right, because I wouldn't have been able to see it, and I need to do some business. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few comments. I don't know why the rapporteur picked something up from his chair. Mr. Gabal has told the absolute truth. Maybe the rapporteur doesn't realize. There are two dimensions: First, the Communists were stealing material goods and stealing people who earned them honestly, and the next, they stole the future. You may be returning the money, but you're stealing the future from those young people at the gallery. In vain, I asked for this item to be interrupted at first reading. I think that the responsible treatment of such essential things as what our followers, the next generation in retirement, in old age, will live on wasn't even worth cutting the point and coming here and saying, yes, we have this idea based on the economic model, the sustainability of the model. Well, that wasn't worth it. But what kind of crew are you if you're not even worth being the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on such a crucial matter? What were you telling those people in the squares during the last election? Here I look straight ahead at the members of the ANO movement. As for Mr Zavadil, he said that this was a pragmatic behaviour of social democracy. From the point of view of power technology, it was pragmatic. To me, it was dirty irresponsible populism, what they did, what they said, and what they want to do now. It's not about ideology. The idealological problem lies completely elementary somewhere else. Babiš should perform here, Sobotka should perform here and say: Dear citizens, that you pay into the social system for your pensions, of course with some solidarity component, it is not your money, it is our money, we will redistribute it. We consider that at least in some part, and in the other pension system it was only in the minimum part, we said to the citizens: No. That's your money, you have to start to care elementaryly, your responsibility is what standard of living you will have in your old age. The state can ensure that there is sufficient solidarity. You don't know what you're coming here with. It will end by offering not only current but also other years of beggars to seniors, you add the hundred crowns, the forty crowns. But this is not the solution. More and more of the ageing population will fall into poverty and basically into an impossible situation. I have seen discussions in past times when one of your main social democracy protagonists said in the field of social policy: Why are we going to deal with this here? After all, the pension system will go into deficit according to demographic forecasts in 15 years, so let the politicians deal with it later. And this is exactly what you're not saying because, in the meantime, the 2008 crisis came and the pension system took over and fell into deficit not in 15 years, but in one year. I think what you're really doing is incredible, and I repeat again: what Mr Gabal says is absolutely true. It's not about acting like we're gonna pay you back, but you're stealing the future. And I think the average fund, and I'm sure the Treasury Secretary will confirm that, so if a fund behaves both responsibly and conservatively, so as to add two hundred a month, it's probably going to make a profit, and it's already comparable to that enormous populist policy of the state. Since I think that it is really responsible to come up with the 'we have this solution, we are convinced, thanks to numbers, that this solution is sustainable', you have not done so, so I am giving a procedural proposal to interrupt this point until the government presents to the House at least the strategic material that the pension system wants in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u43	Thank you, too. Since this is a procedural proposal, we will leave it to the vote without debate. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby, see if any of them are there, I'll check you all out, I'll ask you again to sign up with your cards. We will now vote on a procedural proposal to suspend this item until the Government presents strategic material on this issue. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 134, to which 157 are registered, for 35, against 112. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. Now, please, to the microphone with Mr Tejc's factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u44	Thank you for the floor. I barely believe what I hear from the right side of our hall. I heard applause when it sounded like we should find consensus. Well, I'm up for it, but I remember the debate that was here two or three years ago when the ODS, the TOP 09 and the Public Things were there, and there was no consensus and effort on their part. On the contrary, we have long been pointing out that we will not get further without consensus. What we are doing today is just stopping the rise in the problem that you left for us and which we need to address in order not to increase the number of people who will be in a system that needs to be revised. So nothing but the fact that the increase in the number of people in this pillar is stopping is happening today. I am in favour of seeking consensus, but when I hear from Mr Laudát, for example, that the seniors should be afraid of how this coalition will rule, I think they will not remember well how the coalition last ruled. I think everyone remembers how it was with pensions, how the valorization was canceled, and what we had to go back and re-set up so that seniors and pensioners would do better. If anyone said we're certain that private pension funds will guarantee those in 20, 30 or 40 years of retirement, I'm saying there are no guarantees. The only guarantee is a well-functioning state, a well-functioning economy, an ongoing system that will be complemented by the third pillar, but to say that we want consensus, to say what we want, and then say: you cannot change it without consensus, it is not right - it is not something that we should approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u45	Thank you for respecting the time limit and we have three factual points here. With the first to the microphone of Mr Laudát, Mr Stanjura and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u46	Thank you. I have to defend myself against the words of the castle part of social democracy. Before I came to the House, there was a certain Bezděkův commission here, and you can look up the media outputs that all the parliamentary parties, with the exception of the KSČM, had the right to talk about the fact that they did not agree with these models or subsequently realized models of pension reform, but you did not. You agreed to do it. Similarly, you agreed that there was a need for a financial constitution or a law on budgetary responsibility. It's not true that no one was talking to you. Your representatives in the Sub-Committee on Pension Reform from 2007 to 2010 refused to discuss any alternatives. You changed your mind and didinklined to the original opinion of the KSČM. So it's not true that no one wanted to talk to you. And it is a sad example of the fact that social democracy or some of its Members do not trust a private business, a market economy. Indeed, in the 21st century, after experience with real socialism, it is indeed an original approach. The state doesn't produce, the state doesn't create values, it's what these people do with their jobs. But I would really ask both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister to say here whose money they consider the social payments of employed people to the social system. That's the big idea argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u47	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Stanjura in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u48	Thank you. I would like to ask my colleague Tejc to distinguish between you and me. I congratulated the Social Democrats on their successful implementation of their left-wing agenda, and I did not call for any consensus. I respect that you have a different opinion. Just a reaction to your performance. You say you don't trust private pension funds, I respect that, too, I have a different opinion. What funds are in the third pillar? State or private? Where does the state send the seven billion a year? State pension funds or private funds? We both know the answer: private! And that's good. But, and most importantly, maybe we should be the first thing to change the nomenclature. We don't have any pension insurance, even though that's his name. It's a retirement tax. Many citizens think that they save money that goes down every month for themselves because they say it's my insurance, I've been paying pension insurance for 30 years, and now I'm going to have a pension like this. It's just not like that. Well, let's just say it's a tax because it's not insurance. That's the first thing. And the other thing. I am really terrified of sentences like this: we must not allow new people to enter the second pillar, which means we must not let people want to prepare themselves for retirement. I think it's just wrong! But I respect your political agenda. In the beginning, I said that you are doing very well, that others are fighting over positions in state firms and that they should be in control, you are promoting your program. That's why we say it's the left-wing government. If you look at the designs that come out, they're yours. And we're your political opponent, your ideal opponent, and we just have a different opinion with respect for what you're saying. And really, making a consensus with you on pension reform is actually the same thing that Vladimír Špidla said: resources are and will never be anything, no reform. You don't want any change, so the consensus is useless to look for!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u49	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Ondráček's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the government, colleagues, I wanted you to discuss this, but a bit of a heated discussion, who stole something from whom, virtually. took that communist property, this government will take away people's future. I wonder how you'll evaluate the last 25 years of your last governments. What have you stolen from this society, these people, these citizens? Or picked up so you don't have to talk about it being stealing. At least they were social security, and then, unfortunately, some hope that they might still have. So let's get out of political pulls and go back to retirement savings and find a way out of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u51	Thank you and now please to the microphone with priority right of Vice-President of the House of Petr Gazdík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u52	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have one very specific question for the Minister of Finance and for the Prime Minister. I belong to a generation called Husákův's children. I have four children as the best pension insurance for my old-age pension, but in addition, I will save in the second and third pillars. Today, you are working on a second pillar that diversifys for me the risk that the state manages the deficit every year in the pension system and that in the 27 or 30 years that I am likely to retire, there may not be another state pension. This risk here, depending on how our state and especially how your government manages, is obviously here. And I'm asking, what vision are you offering me and a generation of about a million Husákův's children today? What are we going to do at retirement age? How are we going to get a pension if he's working on a pensioner today, roughly 1.8 working? The population forecasts of the MPSV are quite clear that at that time it will be working on one pensioner about 1.2 workers. Can you imagine what social security contributions would have to look like to make the ongoing pillar work? Where are the conclusions of your commission that will give my generation a vision? I'm begging you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u53	Thank you and please now with Mr Seďa in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u54	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I couldn't stand it anymore because there's a second reading about pension savings and I hear all these ideological speeches and speeches. Please, historically, in the '90s, there was a surplus in pension insurance. Where did it go? A colleague of Gazdík, by your means, is talking about a million Husákův's children. But there's 90 grand in your second pension pillar! What are you guys talking about all the time? And who has the money can currently invest it, and even invest it, but the vast majority of people don't even have the money for the third pillar, for insurance! What are you talking about?!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u55	Thank you and now please with the priority right of Vice-President of the House of Jan Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u56	I agree with my colleague Gazdík, through you, that the best solution for pension reform is really enough for children, and if my colleague Gazdík has four children, I congratulate him on that, because this is really the right way to take care of the pension system. On the other hand, I would like to say that the pension committee is working, continuously fulfilling its commitments, and abolishing the second pillar is one of the points reached by the Commission. However, it must be noted that now that we are so exposed to criticism, it is a pity that the TOP 09 and the starosta have basically left the Commission, do not send their representatives there and do not have the opportunity to influence the materials that arise because they voluntarily renounced and resigned from their position and the possibility to shape the future of the pension system. In particular, taking into account the number of children is one of the key parameters that we want to take into account that those who contribute to the pension system by having children should be taken into account in the future. If you are criticizing, at least you should work on it to co-create the future vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u57	Thank you. I now have three factual points. The first one to the microphone, Mr. Mr. Zavadil. Mr Beznoska and then Mr Plzák will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u58	Once again, good day, Madam President, colleagues, fellow Members, honourable Government. Just a few numbers to be clear, 'cause when you talk about numbers, sometimes I get adrenaline up. I'd like to respond to a remark that was here from somewhere on the right that we don't trust capital funds. Well, we don't trust them, and I have concrete proof of that. Look at Slovak capital funds - conservative, dynamic and the third one I don't know his name. During 2008 to 2012, there was no single return. On average, these non-profits move between minus one and minus eight percent. So please, it would be good to pay attention to these numbers, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u59	Thank you. I beg you now with the de facto Mr Beznoska. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u60	Thank you for the floor. Just a very short one for colleague Bartošek. First remark. It is not true that it has come to something - I mean the abolition of the second pillar - the pension commission, because at the first meeting of this commission there were ways of ending the second pillar in the programme. So it's not a committee decision, it's a purely political decision. And the second point to my colleague Zavadil, he was just talking about it. It is not possible to assess the performance of funds from one or two years. Just the performance on the capital markets has to be assessed in a long time and then you'd see that the curve would definitely go northeast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u61	Thank you. I am now asking Mr Plzák to prepare Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I don't want to take any illusions, nor would I wish it to my colleague Bartošek and colleague Gazdík. But I would like to say boldly that it is not a guarantee of good old age to have many children. We have full social beds, and I'm on those beds, and these are people who have two, three, four children who are either so active that they don't have time for them, or they moved abroad, or they just don't care about them. So this illusion is falling a little bit. And then I had one more point of fact. There was a concern that some of the population would experience very poor old age. I think that the real part of the spectrum is responsible for this group, because there is such a large group of entrepreneurs, businessmen, and so on, which you have enabled to operate in the grey economy, that they have optimized taxes that have virtually not paid any, they have not contributed to the ongoing system. I'm curious to know what kind of pensions they're going to have from the interim system when they get into the old age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u63	Thank you. I'm asking for a microphone with Mr Kalousek in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u64	Thank you. I do not doubt that they are really businessmen with the behavior described here by Dr. Plzák. I'm fascinated by his reproach: it's your fault that someone decided to be irresponsible about their old age. Sorry, we have a different view of the world. I think that everyone is primarily responsible for themselves. But that's not what I wanted to get off with. I wanted to briefly respond to Vice-President Bartošek as regards our participation in the commission. This is a quote from the Scriptures: "If the house of the hospodin is not built, all exertion is in vain. " I'm less demanding. It would be enough for me if those people who are trying, with all due respect, to build them, if they came out of the real foundations. The real basis is to acknowledge the truth, what resources are available and what demographic development is ahead. If you're working on refusing to admit the truth because it's politically unpopular, whatever you're building on it can't be sustainable and viable in the long run. And there's no point in losing your energy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u65	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Urban's de facto opinion. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u66	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, you have made this ideological problem, friends on the right, you. He is, in my opinion, more economic than ideological. What's it like? Today's people who go to work pay their parents or grandparents to have a dignified pension. Of course, it is not only in the Czech Republic that your parents and grandparents live to be older and have a longer life in retirement, but it is not just in the Czech Republic that it brings great economic problems, because those who are retired and those who are at work are fewer. The whole of Europe is dealing with this. You said, "We'll solve this very easily." The money that's there today, that's how we take it out, give it to some funds, and that'll ensure the well-being. Well, of course, after the financial crisis since 2008, so believe that, so only a naive person can. And it's like working with that ideology that this private entity, taking out the money that these pensioners today are going to be at risk of getting even smaller pensions, so I don't think that's some kind of saving solution to the pension system. Of course, if this is not dealt with, in 20 years' time, the grandparents and parents will have fewer pensions, because those who will be working in comparison with those who will be retired will be even less. Raising contributions - it is a risk to the competitiveness of companies and the risk to salaries, of course, and employment. So the problem isn't easy. If he was, they'd solved him in Germany or somewhere else. So let's not play clever. Private funds at this time, at this time of financial risk that we have experienced worldwide, are not a saving solution. [[Time limit alert.]] What we are proposing today is not to involve private funds in this, looking for a more sensible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u67	Thank you. Now I want to ask the Minister of Finance whether he's applying with a factual or proper application. Right? So please, you're second in line. I'll ask the Vice-President of the House of Mr. Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u68	Of course, the number of children is not self - saving. Children need to be properly raised, cared for by their parents, went to work, and paid taxes. It must also be said that without there being a functional ongoing pillar, there will be no pension reform. And I think that the pension committee is based on real data and is preparing material that will be usable and voteable. But surely the solution is not to rat on the table and leave the meeting. That's what I'm sorry about the TOP 09s for resigning to their ability to shape the future concept and to make sure they can talk about it. In this way, they will merely criticize and make excuses for the fact that it is badly done, and as an argument they will use the fact that they did not participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u69	Thank you. Now please get to the microphone of the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u70	Thank you, Madam President. I'd just like to remind you that today we're actually dealing with a ban on entry into the second pillar, we're not dealing with pension reform. However, we have been asked here several times to comment on pensions, so we have - we have had various commissions in the past, I don't know how many years, 20 years or how long these committees have been dealing with it, and now we've been debating for an hour. I had an analysis done, called the Czech pension system and proposals for its reform. The analysis has 29 pages, there are appeals to various systems in the world, and I would like to read the conclusion of the analysis. I'm pointing out that the analysis was done for me for free. The conclusions of this analysis are as follows: The Czech Republic basically has a universal public pension system financed from the state budget, which is transparent and is a de facto incomprehensible mixture of solidarity and insurance pillar, and which thus cannot fit into any social model. The additional solidarity levy is a housing allowance which increases low pensions to more than 30% of the average national income. The reform of this pension pillar follows its transparency, that is, the reform that I would like to present first to coalition partners by the end of June, and then, if we agree, even to the Chamber of Deputies, it is quite easy. [[10.50 hours]] The introduction of an equal pension at a level of about 30 percent of the average national income and the creation of universal social pension insurance, financed from insurance premiums. The Czech third pension pillar is an unconceptionary mixture of two completely different regulated components with the involvement of half of the entire population thanks to significant fiscal support. In principle, it is a disorderly neoliberal soft-compulsion system, a soft obligation, or it is actually a second pillar of pension under the World Bank classification. Here is mainly to consider the application of a liberal and social-democratic approach in the form of the abolition of fiscal support, compensated by the reduction of the current so-called high pension insurance rate. In general, it is possible to imagine the unification of state aid and the entire system of state regulation, only after the transformation into a social old-age pension scheme with the possibility of individual allocation of funds to clients and private pension funds according to the model of Swedish premium pension. The new Czech second pension pillar is a neoliberal system of another type of soft compilation, which is therefore redundant from a systemic point of view and the current government is counting on the abolition. It is useful to take advantage of foreign experience, to reduce the state pension fairly for those who actively insist on continuing to participate in this pillar, even if the granting of State aid of 3% of wages is terminated, and to allow the system to self-exorcise. Corporate pension funds are still prohibited, although they are the easiest solution to take account of specific sectors of the economy, such as mining. With a certain amount of helpfulness, all three government entities could agree on the preceding chapters recommended by the fundamental rationalization of the existing Czech pension system, which would result in the first pillar in the form of equal income at a rate of about 30 percent, supplemented by a adjusted contribution to housing for seniors, the second pillar in the form of NDC and the third pillar in one of the four possible variants. The fundamental benefit of this rationalization would be a transparent and understandable pension system and a reduction in pension insurance premiums, creating room for reducing the tax burden on labour, which is strongly and repeatedly recommended by the European Commission. I just wanted to inform you that - as we have been invited - the Ministry of Finance and I personally have been doing this for a long time. I'll come and design a new system because we've been talking about something for 20 years and we still have a deficit. It was easy in the finals - either the pension money or it won't. I'm sure we'll come up with a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u71	Thank you. Now please, with Mr Kalousek in fact, and then Mr Benda will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u72	Thank you. The Minister of Finance did not mention the author of the analysis, and that is irrelevant. There are many things that have been said in these conclusions that can be cordially agreed. Equal pensions at around 30% of the current wage are undoubtedly a solution to stabilise the pension system. I'm just not sure it's that easy. It, Minister of Finance, the current amount of pensions is about 40 per cent, which means reducing it to 30 per cent means reducing pensions by a quarter. Sure, that'll solve the deficit. But if you feel it's that easy, let's go! I look forward to the proposal. It means presenting pensions a quarter lower based on what you've read here. I'm really looking forward to it when you bring it up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u73	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Bend's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u74	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I listened to my colleague Urban and the Minister's reading, I was just thinking: we can interpret various techniques, we can interpret how we rationalize something, we will transfer from 30 percent to 40 percent and things like that. Until we find the courage to tell today's middle and young generation that they have so few children, that the basic problem is that they have to, or we have to, I am still at this age, to pay my parents' pensions and save on their own, that they are the richest generation in the history of the Czech Republic, despite all the talk about the burned country, and that it just has to be this way, otherwise it means that we will bring here, as Vladimír Špidla once dreamed, half a million or a million people either from the east, or maybe today they are free to the south. There's nothing we can do without it. Either we admit it to those people on the fair that it is simply impossible for them not to save money on their pensions today, and the ongoing system is nonsense, or we won't admit it to them and we'll tell them these sentences about rationalization and more and more and more sentences. I think this is how we have to face the public, and then we have a chance to succeed with some retirement reform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u75	Thank you. And now, please, with the de facto Minister of Finance. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u76	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague Kalousek has not failed. First, we're invited to come up with something, and when we come up with something, it's wrong. That is why our country has never really had a vision since the revolution, which is why the coalition and opposition have never been able to put anything on paper. I think that strategies of some things such as pensions or energy or transport infrastructure should be done for decades. We should agree on that. But there's probably a tradition in our House that whatever's proposed here, and priori it's wrong. I'm sorry. I'll be on an official visit to the United States next week, also at the invitation of the No Labels movement. This is a movement that seeks to convince Democrats and Republicans in the United States that they should have a common vision. A common vision of America, where they will have a balanced budget, when they will solve pensions, energy. I don't know if it's even worth trying to make a deal here when a priori what's said here is rejected, criticized, humiliated, ridiculed. So I don't know if there's any point. Maybe people want to hear we want to talk about something. And you've been dealing with these pensions for 25 years, you're talking about nothing. And what's the result? Come on, minus 200 billion or minus 40 billion every year. Nothing's been solved. All I'm saying is that maybe we can finally be constructive and try to reach an agreement, but obviously there's a policy here --
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u77	Minister, your time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u78	Policy of how many points we put in the media, how many times we attack that minister or colleague. That's the politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u79	Minister, I am so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u80	No, I'm done. Not a problem-solving policy. Yeah? So let's try to talk about this objectively, not a priori what Babiš is going to say -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u81	I'm so sorry, but I really -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u82	What Babiš says, Kalousek says is wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u83	I have a limit to keep.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u84	You wanted to hear something, I'll bring it in by the end of June.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u85	I don't want to turn you off, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u86	I'm done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u87	Please, Mr Kalousek, with a factual view. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u88	Excuse me, Minister, I have to take all the courtesy I have to take. I call upon the testimony of my listeners and, after all, the tapestry. I never once said it was wrong. On the contrary, I said that many conclusions of this analysis, which I do not know the author of, can be accepted, and that it is quite undoubted that if average pensions today are about 40 percent of the average wage, the equal pension at 30 percent of the average wage, as you have quoted here, is undoubtedly the solution to the deficit in the pension account. That's what I said, and I'm referring to it. I never once said it was wrong. I just said that I'm arguing that it's so easy because I don't think it's politically passable, but I'm looking forward to the debate when you bring it up. I never said it was wrong. No doubt that's the solution. A 25% reduction in pensions is undoubtedly a solution to the current situation. I just don't know how politically passable it is. I said nothing more, nothing less, and I think it was a very polite remark that, on the contrary, appreciated the relevance of your arguments. But they're technical arguments, and when I look at your coalition partners, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u89	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u90	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Victoria! I finally got it. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot that I'd like to respond to here, but I'll admit I can't make it because I didn't keep it all in my head. But I can't forgive one introduction. There is talk of the future of this nation, which is, of course, related to the pension system, who caused what, but it has been forgotten to say that from the pussy, in quotes that the new political guarantee took over, previously federal, now the reduced state, there has been privatization and stealing a lot of state, cooperative, and in some cases individual property, three thousand billion people are calculating it. And where's the money? What new assets? I mean, we're almost half the debt here. If I add it up, the property and the current debt, I don't even want to say it out loud. As we've seen, there's a lot of retired reform experts here. Problem is, we can't make a deal. I was sitting in the so-called. First the Bezděkův Commission, first the Nečasův Commission, and now the First Potůčkův Commission. It was always about two barriers, a ditch, and the stronger one tried to assert her opinion. It was never a consensus. This is the fight that has been going on since 1945, whether there will be a construction system or a surface security system. If we continue with Bismarck, or we go to Chicago school, which was first tried in Chile, and if we look at it in that time, it's taken over the world today. And if you want some of the best visual idea of how this world works, I suggest you do the National Theatre, which is stated, I hope it is still mentioned, in the Estates Theatre, with the simple name Enron. It's two acts. One would say that this is a subject that is not even dramatically processed, and I guarantee you that it is quiet all the time, no one is showing up, not even a pin you would not hear falling on the ground, and as I have witnessed, finally a huge applause. And the applause, of course, is with such a bitter grin because people realize how it is in the capital world. We have heard a lot here, but I would like to say what the problem of pension reform is, at least sort of summarize it. This is, above all, an adverse demographic development. Wrong prognosis. But who's to blame? If people want to live comfortably without children or with one child, then these people will have to pay something for this life of theirs. So let's tell them openly. If two of them were economically active on one pensioner, there's no problem. If you live a comfortable life, then you'll have to count on it to cost something. The second problem is the low performance of the economy. She hasn't increased the productivity of work in 25 years. And where there's little economic performance, there's little wages, there's little secondary resources, and then we're arguing about how much we put into and where we cut back. We are also currently registering a large number of unemployed people. A little over half a million registered, maybe another quarter of a million unregistered. Some of this is in the gray economy, but one who is unemployed does not pay benefits, goes early into early retirement if he is entitled, and draws earlier from the system. Well, if 40,000 people are leaving for early retirement every year, you can count on it to create some kind of deficit, of course. Then it is the unwillingness of citizens with higher incomes to solidarity at the expense of their equivalent fulfillment. And that, of course, we can show quite beautifully at this discussion that is going on here. And that's not what we're talking about about, the ceilings for drifting, the changes to the reduction bands, where the Constitutional Court has also intervened, that's not what we're talking about, where insurance isn't paid at all. And propos, I would like to say, I am also in favour of leaving the term of pension insurance so that we can go back to what was before 1993 to pension security, because basically it's security, and that pension insurance here is good only to balance out what was called. the pension account, which is not an account, could keep an eye on how much it was collected and how much it paid off. Then, of course, it is the interest of financial capital groups in managing most of the public finances outside the solidarity system. And that's the problem. Why should the state manage it, just over 300 billion. A year? We can do it, too. These are the pressures of the second pillar, the third pillar, after all, when I listened to the evaluation, how did he get it, or the analysis, Vice-President of the Government, so where else could such laws come from other than the Treasury? Last but not least, it is a rejection of the socially fairer redistribution of newly created values. This is the question of whether there will be progressive taxation, or it will be equal tax, etc., etc. It will not be more solidarity because here, although the performance of the economy is not, as we would have imagined, it is still creating a new value, and it is about how much percent of that value will be redistributed. What, then, today first of all, weakens the income side of the first state pension pillar, the solidarity that should secure everyone who has worked honestly, to his old age? Let me tell you, as I have information from the district social security administration, even these people are no longer easy to do, because at their retirement age, they only have 80 percent of their replacement periods and that they are not actually entitled to a pension due to the statutory age. I know that this press, and he stressed it, is not about pension reform. It's all about stopping the arrival of new insured people into the second pillar. But the discussion provoked me to mention some facts here. So it's losing the first pillar. Non-payment by the State for alternate periods of insurance and their accounting for entitlement. That means if you don't pay health insurance, the state pays for it. If you don't pay for replacement periods in the pension system, it's no one, and all those who put money in it do, and then automatically have to create a deficit, because there's no one there who didn't take the money for the claims. Then, of course, it is a question of linking the pension system of the ČSSZ and the armed forces, see the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice, and in particular the Ministry of Defence creates about 2 billion in this system. deficit every year, because far more soldiers are already pumping than the minimum we have today to protect the interests of someone. [[11.10 hours]] Thirdly, it is the ceilings for pension contributions. We have tried number two, trying to abolish these ceilings by legislative measures. Hopefully it'll get to the next House meeting. There are different estimates, 8 to 18 billion does. So count it off from this deficit. Then dealing with high unemployment by early retirement, I mentioned that. Over 250,000 people receive pensions before they have a statutory limit. Miscellaneous discounts on pension insurance income. Please, I am in danger of those proposals that are verbally being made today that, in such cases and on the other hand, if a person is employed, the employer will not have to take care of social security. That'll be another deficit. Let me give you an example. In one year we made this possible when the employer trained employees who didn't have a job and from September to December there was a CZK 9 billion outage on the pension fund. Then it's a historically incurred deficiency in the collection of insurance premiums. Please, no one, the state, paid for companies that didn't take insurance in the '90s. This deficit is over 50 billion crowns. That's a one-year deficit that only comes out of these funds. The costs of administration of the Czech administration. In fact, from the money collected, what the Czech administration costs is about 1,5 percent of the amount collected. But I already mentioned here yesterday, it is not only the cost of paying pensions, but the sickness, compensation laws and various other tasks that the Czech administration must ensure beyond pension insurance, including the House press, which we have prepared under number 406. Non-profitable employment, restrictions or no pension contributions. Each income from work or livelihood shall not be subject to pension insurance. We could probably talk a lot about illegal employment here. Often criticize those who illegally offer their jobs. But for whom is it actually beneficial? For those who offer this job and receive something and are not pension insured? Or for those employers for whom it's a legitimate advantage, because it's the minimum they have to pay? So these employees aren't actually taking you into the system, and they're going to draw on it, or they're already drawing on state social support or benefits in material distress. The Švarcsystem is closely related to this. Yes, that's legal. While this is out of the legal system in employment laws, it is, in essence, finding these problems when it goes through control, but it is not willing to solve them. These people will be unhappy when they retire because they're deceiving the minimum. They're not the rich businessmen. It's the poor people who can't get a job other than through the quarc system. They are insured at least and will basically have a pension somewhere at the limit of CZK 4,000 and I may be overreacting. Other calculation basis for pension contributions for employees and self-employed persons. Huge politics. I will remember when Minister Mládek at the ČSSD convention expressed himself very cleverly, how noisy it was. But please, that's not solid enough for one group, three quarters of a million people, to have - that's the new retirement group that's been introduced here - to do 30% of what an employee does. And you can have different and different interpretations, but the essence is that - it weakens the pension system, and it puts them at a disadvantage in the final stage when their pension is measured. Maybe they'll save in the third and another pillar, but it's a problem. The effects of the cyclical crisis may not affect capitalism, but they are also a large axe in the pension system. And then the problem-- we're saying there's a deficit in the pension account. How much easier would it be if social security was, or if we legalized the flow of state subsidies into the system, if we wanted to hold a balance-sheet pension account, that the State would actually pay for those activities that were legally allowed to be counted for pension rights but not paid. So this actually works in Austria, Germany, everywhere else, just in our country that's the reason, and I believe that this is primarily a political reason to scare the citizens, that there is a deficit and that the whole system is going to collapse. I must say that the issue is not simple. I'm aware of that. For example, in the so-called Potůčkův Commission, we also submitted our proposal for a solution, it has 12 pages, 6 plus 6 pages of annexes. He's on the web. But we are aware that this commission is not a committee for pension reform, but it is a committee that addresses six fundamental objectives from the government's programming declaration. We have been invited to this committee. So it's not our commission, and if someone puts it in our mouths that it's actually like we're in harmony, then I have to say that the opposite is true. Most of the proposals that we, as a KSČM, have not been taken into account to address individual objectives. So we're in the same situation as we were in those past committees: democratically you can say everything, but then, of course, most of us will decide. I am only concerned about one thing - that the commission is working intensively on various variants that will not be accepted in the government anyway. The problem with this committee is that it doesn't have a political leadership that regulates activity and says yes here, not here. So I don't want to say that what's being processed there must be stupid, but that it can be a lot of time that eventually turns out to be wasted. Because when I'm following the current coalition, I can see which proposal might have what hope. Yet it is the first commission to embrace the pension system as part of a whole social system that it does not rip out and try to embrace the system as a whole because it intersects with one another. I would therefore like to say that we should make arguments that cannot be refuted. It's probably a problem in political debate. In an economic debate where there is an exact number of things to count, it sounds a little different. But unfortunately, I've never had this kind of discussion before. I'm sorry. I may not live to see this as a Member, but I suppose one day this company will be forced to do so. And one final point. Yesterday and the day before yesterday, there was an international situation here last time. You can imagine building a system here in laboratory conditions, looking for its extinction, and then just some remote or close conflict, and everything's different. The advantage of this state pension pillar is that it is regulated that it can respond to any situation. Sometimes harder, sometimes milder. Let us not let this system drown out the new one, which should be an addition to the one who can. They say there are 83,000 citizens in the second pension pillar. So I don't know which information is right, but 83,000 have banks, the Ministry of Finance, the Czech administration has less than 81,000, because when it's paired up, it turns out that the dealers picked up those who don't pay because they're unemployed, they had money for them, eventually they find out in the Czech administration that someone has two or three jobs, but that they're part of the second pillar, they only report to one employer. It's hard to trace. I can tell you that if this pillar is succeeded by another law, not by today's, it's going to be very difficult. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u91	Thank you and please to the microphone with Mr Stanjura's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u92	Thank you for the floor. I will try to translate a few of the terms of Mr Opálka's fellow Member. So when he says that Minister Mládek has made a diminutive statement, he probably means his famous statement that businessmen are parasites. From what I understand, it's a pregnant statement for the communists, which I'm not surprised at at all, which is to say, it's not surprising to remind you. But here again, it's like all the problems of our economy when there's no money left -- who's to blame? Businessmen! Those are the ones who pay little, and that's why we're gonna raise their health insurance, give them cashiers, lower their flat rates. We'll all have a good time. That'll be tens of billions. It's fiction! [[The speaker speaks very loudly.]] You're building employees against businessmen. It's like businessmen don't have employees! I don't understand. When you talk about how many employees they pay, look how much they pay. Whether the employee or the employer. And that's really different. And whether it's a tax expense or not for the employer. And if we don't have the value of a job as high as we do. And it's not just the opposition's opinion. The OECD notes exactly the same that we have an extremely high cost of work. And if we lower it, we have a chance of reducing unemployment. And if we lift up the labor code, we'll increase the chance that the employers will take the risk and accept that person. [[Voices from the diaper that the speaker may not be so loud.]] I really believe that. Maybe I'm talking too loudly, I'm sorry to bother you while you're writing on your computer, but I really don't mind, 'cause this is where we're supposed to listen and not write on our computer. And whoever's on the computer is supposed to have headphones, and I wouldn't disturb him. The problem that is here, and we have experienced some bold proposals from the Minister of Finance in particular. For example, it will soon have item number 15 - in the original bill on budgetary responsibility drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, the proposal was that the government itself could reduce pensions by its decision. Not to reduce valorisation, but to reduce pensions. And not the House by a majority, but the government by a majority. This is a very bold proposal to reduce the pension deficit, however fictitious it is. And I agree with my colleague Opálka that it is not a physical account to which payments are sent and from which payments are received. But it shows something about the system's balance sheet. Today we have heard, and it is mathematically especially, perhaps even economically: Let us reduce pensions by 25 percent, says the Minister of Finance. And we got it all. That's for sure. If we look, if we're paying pensions last year, 385 billion, we're going to cut it by 25 percent, so you have almost 100 billion. Right. That's 2 times 38, 76 and 19. 95 billion. [[The speaker counts lightningly from his head.]] Come on, we're in surplus plus 40 billion, and maybe we can give up on the businessmen. The fact that it is fiction that no one will suggest it because it has no chance of asserting it, and I say this with full responsibility for us, because we would not support such a proposal to reduce pensions by 25 percent across the board, so it is very simple. Mathematically, we find a lot of tools like this. But really, the government doesn't do anything. This committee, with all due respect for its chairman, is a political task of social democracy. There is no political leadership, but it really is. So ask how we treat our opinions there, whether someone takes us seriously or doesn't take us seriously. I have completely different information from these people, from my colleagues and colleagues who go there. Then make it a coalition committee, and we won't pretend you're not trying to make a deal. I'm just saying. I'm not even criticizing it. But let's not make the impression that there's an expert committee working here that's so mixed up with experts and politicians. Because in order to make sense, we would have to say in advance that what they agree, we will respect, and we will not, of course, sign such a bianca check. And we're not the only ones. I don't think I'm gonna find a political party here and a political club that would give a bianco check to a committee and say, "Well, make a deal and then we'll vote. So a perfectly correct estimate by Mr Opálka that whatever the conclusions of this committee are, if it is not in the social democracy programme, this government will not propose and enforce it. If it's in line with the social democracy program, it's very likely that he'll come here and push it through and we'll have these disputes - ideas, impersonal - about what to do about it. The fact that these numbers are relentless is simply true. We're just rejecting the interpretation that businessmen are responsible for everything. After all, we have a de facto solution to the problem. The Deputy Minister of Finance said last week that she expected tens of billions an extra year thanks to the inspection reports and registration cash registers. So it's done. Who believes that? Well, we don't. We got the numbers from Croatia. We have asked the Parliamentary Institute to do so. It wasn't our think tank that we'd give the assignment to. So see how much taxes have fallen in Croatia. Or maybe they've gone up again, it's like this. [[He's showing the paper.]] But it's in units. Not in tens of billions of crowns. So the problem here is the government doesn't want to do anything about it. At the same time, you say how disadvantageous it is, and at the same time you say, we must prevent entry into the second pillar, because citizens could get some benefits. Well, I guess that's a good thing for citizens in your logic. I'm an opponent of unnecessary laws, and I say it here a lot. I don't have statistics on how many people enter the second pillar a month this year. But if I had to guess, it'd be tens. The Minister of Finance can tell me if he has numbers or the absent Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs, they'll tell me. How many people are we doing this for? Here we accept the law in three readings, in the Senate, the President, in order to prevent the entry into the second pillar of what - a hundred people? Two hundred people? Three hundred people? Those numbers are just relentless. It's not an interest. That has to be admitted. So why are we doing this law? What good is that? I understand if it was a cancellation law. We would protest, we wouldn't support it. But this is some kind of solution that touches the whole system. And I would ask for an answer if the Minister knows or has an estimate of how much has entered the second pillar in the last 12 months. [[The Minister's answers were not understood.]] And this is going to be for how many months? [[The Minister's answer from the news desk wasn't heard.]] One day, on January 1, 2016, they say they'll cancel. Well, at the speed of the Treasury's bill, I don't expect that. So January 1st, 2017. Best to approve it on 1 January 2018. So some next government has a chance to do something about it. That would be quite reasonable, we would support such an amendment to the deadline. 2018, 2019, 2020, any of it. So if you suggest it, we'll support you. But for how many people or how many people do we want to prevent this bill? And I'm going to ask my colleagues here from YES and colleagues from the KDU Club who didn't fight the big fight against the abolition of the second pillar from the start, as the Social Democrats legitimately did. Why are we making a law for a few hundred people here and pretending we're saving some state money? I mean, the money is those people's. Whether the pension insurance guys or the two percent they're paying themselves. So we're not gonna save the state anything. For a few hundred... If it's even a few hundred people. I don't have the number, and I'd like to hear it from the members of the government who certainly have the number when they submit the bill with that justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u93	Thank you and I now have six factual points. First comes Mr Dolejš, Mr Opálka will be prepared, then Mr Laudát and then Mr Finance Minister. And then another one, of course. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u94	Thank you for the floor. A little correction of the previous speaker. Indeed, but the KSČM is not an adorant of the Minister of Industry Mládek, the less his attack on tradesmen. I've known the Minister for a long time, and I've been trying to have a fair relationship with him, so I appreciate him apologizing for that expression. But what is pregnant is that the CFI pays on taxes and on taxes other money, that it allows the little ones to survive. If we turn it on one time, we'll drive them to the office of work. But on the other hand, it also means that, especially with regard to social security, there is a problem for the future. And there's got to be a way to deal with it. So let's just deal with this in a matter of fact, and let's not blame ourselves for something that maybe isn't even true. [[11.30 hours]] After all, we're supposed to stand up for the exploited in the program. And I dare say that small businessmen are exploited by the very big ones. For example, by monopoly prices, such as set rules, and sometimes by taking away, like when a quail draws attention from young people, from large corporations, we chase the small ones instead of taxing the big ones. And one final remark to fit in the deadline. Of course, the committee that exists had a certain assignment. And I fear that if we are looking for the core strategic consensus to address the pension system, we have not contributed much to today's debate. This debate or the basis is that we want to put an end to some bad phase, we don't want to prolong it, because the extension could get expensive. But the core of consensus is lacking. But if we're going to point it this way, it's really, really not. Here we need to understand what place the first pillar is supposed to be, how it is to be stablely funded and not illusions that capital gains in 20, in 30 years will be so great that they will save us. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u95	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Opálka's microphone and his two minutes. Mr Laudát will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u96	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Allow me to respond to my colleague, President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. I mentioned 15 causes of weakening the first pension pillar. I didn't say businessmen were responsible for everything. At those 15 points, one of those points was that the reason for lower incomes is that two categories are taken away differently. That's all. But the situation around the cost of work seems more serious to me. You know, it's got two looks. One way to look at it is how much percent is paid to different insurances. Yes, the percentage is high. But the second view is how much it is in absolute amount. And since we have a low cost of work so that the contributions are sufficient, there must be a high percentage. Increase the cost of work and reduce the charges. The money will be the same, and it will be enough, and we will finally settle at the cost of work, and now I mean in the accumulated, including the contributions, the European fifteen. The last point I forgot is the third pillar. He mentioned it, too, Mr. Stanjura. Seven, eight - in different years - give billions to support to the third pillar of the state. By restricting the possibility of a state contribution from a certain deposit, it is, in fact, solidarity inside out for those who have the power to do so. So it must also be realised that not only the first pillar of solidarity for the poor, but the third pillar of solidarity for the rich.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u97	Thank you for keeping the time limit and, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone, the Minister of Finance will prepare himself. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u98	Thank you for the floor. If I understand correctly, for the first time since Mr. Mládek's statement, there's someone else reporting to him. But that's really a matter. If the Minister of Finance had been wise, he wouldn't have come here with such an example of the law. Maybe he'd have somewhere to interpret what the middle class is, who's the foundation and pillar of the middle class, and then he'd know that she produces values and keeps socially weak on one side of the water. Sometimes, unfortunately, a part that exploits it, which is not socially weak in reality, and from the other side of the oligarch. That's how capitalism is built. And if you devastate the middle class, then there's just no funding for either side. What you've been producing here since your establishment by Mr. Zeman of the Castle as a government is the systematic destruction of middle-class pillars. I note that middle class is not just businessmen, small, middle businessmen. Mr. Komárek through, you don't twist your head, because your sayings are just ridiculous. I'm not shaking my head over you either, at least not in the House. I'm just not surprised anymore. So I'm not surprised that Mr Opálka seems to have applied to this, if I understand the interpretation correctly, but I'm pretty scared that social democracy and the ANO movement are claiming it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u99	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of the Minister of Finance. Mr Komárek will be ready. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u100	Thank you, Madam President. I would just repeat, because, of course, colleagues Kalousek and Stanjura just pulled something out again, some speculation. I'd just repeat the facts again. You've been dealing with pensions here for 20 years, you haven't solved anything. Not even the commission. I was asked to make a suggestion. I'm here to announce that I'm going to propose a pension reform. I'm gonna suggest it to the coalition partners first. It is not true, and I fundamentally reject that I want to reduce pensions. You guys made that up again! I say, and the proposal will be that all pension rights will be retained. I don't know why he's lying and speculating again. You haven't seen the proposal. I'll bring him in by the end of June, and then we'll talk about it. It's not like you're actually faking something in front of you and talking about cutting pensions. It's not true. I'm going to propose a reform that you haven't solved in 20 years. And the electronic sales log. Please, I think it's gonna be a big subject, about a year, for our opposition. I've been writing to the Minister of Finance of Croatia to give us the numbers, the facts I'm going to present to you here. And Mr. Stanjura talks about taxes. Yes, they cut taxes in Croatia. They reduced from 25% VAT to 10 when electronic sales records were introduced. Unlike you, who have raised VAT. I would also like to reduce taxes as part of the introduction of sales records. But I don't think that's a debate today. So I would just repeat the fact that no one wants to cut pensions, that I'm going to propose some reform to the government and coalition partners, and then we can talk about it. So if you don't know it, don't talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u101	I thank the Minister for respecting the time limit and please contact Mr Komárek's microphone. Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek will be ready. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has already said this, but I will briefly underline it. In this debate, I think a logical and long-term proposal for reform of the pension system has fallen. [[Laughter and applause from the benches to the right.]] Thank you for the applause. paskvil, who pushed through the right hand by a small majority in the past period, ends as it ends. Unfortunately, I'm sorry. So a certain proposal was proposed, and Mr Stanjura and Mr Kalousek said several times in front of him in their speeches that this meant a reduction in pensions. I don't want to suspect them of wanting to inattentively listen to journalists to propose a headline: Babiš wants to cut pensions. It just didn't ring a bell. The proposal for a reform of the pension system, which seemed logical at first glance, was made out, and his misrepresentation is unfair to me. Maybe Mr. Kalousek and Stanjura just didn't listen and play something on the computer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u103	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I will ask everyone who speaks to the microphone, if you turn to your colleagues, do so through me. And I beg you very much to respect the time limits so I don't have to turn you off, because it makes me very uncomfortable. Thank you for understanding. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u104	Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to address President Stanjura through you. I think it is not true that the statement made by the absent Minister Mládek, who is on a foreign road, was that businessmen are parasites. I would like us to quote in some way precisely, because that is not how his sentence really sounded. He didn't call businessmen parasites, and I think it would be fair not to use that. Plus, he apologized for it, which I think needs to be appreciated. [[11.40 hours]] The second thing that fell here. Stopping the possibility of entering the second pillar - because if I'm not mistaken, the answer didn't come up - is because, according to the analyses we've been given, there is a risk of speculative entry into this pillar, which the government is about to abolish. So I just wanted to add that to your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u105	Thank you and please to Mr Stanjura's microphone, Mr Laudát will be ready. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u106	At first solidarity for the rich, the MP said - I don't know which one it was, but it was definitely from the KSČM. [[Laughs of Members of the KSČM.]] In order for any citizen to receive maximum state support in the third pillar, they must save CZK 32,87 a day. And the Communists are seriously telling us that 12,000. per year, which is the 32.90, for which you get 12 times 230 from the state, which is 3,200 and some change, that only the rich can afford it. And that's what's gonna happen. If I take 12,000 without interest. minus 12 times 230, so it's less than 9,000. annual, i.e. less than CZK 30 a day, and I think they can afford at least four miles. people who are in the third pillar, and that's certainly not a group that we could say are the rich who have to pay more. Unlike Mr Komárek, I read the materials sent by the Ministry of Finance to a commentary procedure. He can have any kind of adoration speech he wants here, and it's already over in the intra-party elections, so it's almost irrelevant. But what I quoted from the bill to budgetary responsibility was left by Minister Babiš, who suggested in paragraph 15, that the government could reduce pensions by its decision without the House. And today I responded to what the Minister said. He started training us all here, how he had the solution. And he quoted - and these are his words - that he would decrease or that he would adjust his pension to 30% of the average wage. We didn't make that up. So don't let the Finance Minister fabulate, we won't respond. Look at the log he said in his speech today. I still said I don't believe he's gonna bring it up. Then you must listen to me, Mr. Ambassador through Madam Vice-President. And really, those adoring speeches aren't dignified for you either. And for us - for us they are ridiculous, our dignity is not at risk. [[The President wants to speak.]] But we did not see it, Mr Komárek did not see it - but it is the first comprehensive great concept of pension reform. [[emphatically]] Congratulations!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u107	Now, please, to Mr Laudát's microphone, Mrs Adamová, who has failed to comply with the proper application, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Laudate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u108	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm always unlucky to go after Stanjur. [[with a smile]] I was gonna say it, too. But maybe there are these supernatural beings or special beings in the movement, so maybe my colleague Komárek knows something, honor and sense and somehow perceive what we don't know. But what is written is given. Anyway, I'd like that. Vice-President Bělobrádek here said there is a risk of speculative entry. So, please, we would learn after these hours of discussion here, how much, let's say, since this government took power, how many people entered the second pillar, especially after someone calculated in the media that it would be extremely advantageous, that there would be a huge annual appreciation - so how many people is it, what money is it? Because for each of those laws that have financial implications, I would ask very much - let it be an energy law, excise tax laws, biofuels, etc. - so that we also have an economic analysis: it will mean this. This group of companies or the state or someone will pay you and the money there and there. And what are we talking about here? Whatever it is, it's two numbers -- how many people 15 months ago to this day in the last 15 months, or take a shorter period of time, it entered and how many people will take from the first pillar and transfer to the second. Two specific digits. And I haven't heard them yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u109	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with the de facto Mrs Adamová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u110	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to... Mr. Komárek was just leaving, and I wanted to talk to him... [[Comrade Komárek returns to his bench with a bow to Mrs Adam.]] Mr President, when we heard from you that we were actually learning about some specific reform and some of its thesis. This is certainly a big surprise for all of us, because even though we listened carefully - I can certainly tell you that I did - so maybe we didn't consider it such a perfect solution. However, I am very pleased that we have learned from the mouth of Minister Babiš that we will be here in June to learn what kind of pension solution this government is offering, because so far, the debate is being held here that we are disturbing some model, some form of work so far, and we do not have a clear message for the generation that I am willing to represent here, i.e. today's 30s, that they can expect from the state. And I would very much like this debate to be conducted over some really specific things and not just such, let's say, cosmetic modifications. For that generation, I would like to ask once again for this to be a stable solution that has our situation and our pension capacity to ensure, because I think we are really very worried about that. So thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u111	Thank you. Now, with Mr Benda in fact, I beg you, Mr Opálka will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u112	Madam Vice-President, a lot has been said. But if the Minister of Finance here reads one of his analyses, then his Member will declare it a draft pension reform, and if we point out the first problem that's there, that would mean a reduction of all pensions by 25 percent, then the Minister of Finance will come out and say no, that's no way I meant it, that's a mistake. So please do not claim that you have submitted some pension reform or any analysis at all. All you have put forward is a proposal not to enter the second pillar. And I'm really wondering how many leaks we're facing. This question has been asked here repeatedly. And if you take what it costs half a day or one day to meet this House, how much it costs to meet the government, I wonder if at least in this speculation, we will save this state more than this pointless negotiation of this completely unnecessary law, which is not even the abolition of the second pillar, but only a ban on entry, than we have, in fact, already issued it as a state until now and we will give it up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u113	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Opálka's microphone, Mr Stanjura will be ready. Both with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u114	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Opava's changing Opava here. I would like to respond to my colleague Stanjura with the wealth. You know, that's a relative term. Everyone sees him differently. By the amount of your income. Always the ones above him are the rich. So whoever has the lowest income even considers the medium-income to be rich. Then I'd rather talk more income. But it should be pointed out that it has no support like the third pillar in our country anywhere in the world. In our country, the aid is not only State aid as a state contribution but also a tax discount if I pay the necessary number. And it can be used either by an employer or by an employee. Another aid is that the assessment is not taxed, so we actually have four aids, maybe there's a fifth. So on that side, I think that the state doesn't put enough money into it or lose any money in it. And the problem is also whether a citizen will be able to save his whole life in that pillar, because today he can be multi-receiving, but in ten years his situation can change completely. I would like to say - and I'm not here behind the coalition - but as far as the composition of the participants in the second pillar is concerned, it's in the graph, and I was pointing it out, in Potůčkův's web-access committee. And the pension reform, as the Vice-President of the Government has indicated... Well, we made our proposal, too. In 2005, calculated by the independent Bezděkův Commission until 2100. Balanced. The problem, of course, is that he did not find political support. And now that I see that the pension committee is working and the Treasury is working on the same project, I don't envy the coalition. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u115	Thank you. Mr Stanjura's microphone, please. After that, Mr Komárek will be prepared and then Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Everyone with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u116	First of all, I would like to thank Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, because I asked the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, because he is the minister who answered me, so thank you very much. However, he didn't answer a specific number - I don't blame him. If it is true that speculators are preparing mass entry into the second pillar, they had to start on January 7 when it came to the House, and they had to enter every day for the last three months. They say the law doesn't apply yet, so I'm gonna go in there speculatively to make money. Madam Secretary is here. I'm going to ask how many people entered the second pillar this year, those speculators you're afraid of, who since January know you want to prevent it, and thus have three months of time to speculate about entering the second pillar. How much? I want to know the number. If we don't know in three months, we could know in two. Today is April 8th. I know where it's fixed. But the pensions belong to you, Madam Secretary. We think you can't always say, "They're in finance," we can't. You're one government, so share. Apparently, the Minister of Finance doesn't want to answer my question. If he said I don't know, he'd say I don't know, and I'd give a written interview, and I'd find out. But those speculators have been allowed in for three months, and I don't think there are any, and you're fighting someone who isn't here. No one is interested in this in principle, but we are going to adopt the law to say that we have stopped the speculation, we have spared the state. And even if you did, what did you spare the state if the money was those people and at the same time you said you wanted to give it back to them? So what did you save? Nothing. Speculants are not, saving no and unnecessary law already at second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u117	Thank you for keeping the time limit and please contact Mr Komárek's microphone. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u118	Thank you. I think in more than two hours of fruitful, more or less funny debates from both sides, we've learned two facts. One fact is, and so did Mr Beznoska, that pension reform is such an important issue that there should be a great deal of agreement on it, the least constitutional majority. The mistake was that there was no such agreement in the past. The second fact is that the Minister of Finance has a study that may form the basis for the reform of the pension system on which we agree. However, it is certainly not true that this reform would mean a reduction in pensions of 25 percent. And I ask my opponents not to repeat this lie again because it is a lie. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u119	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone of Mr. Vice-President of the Government, Pavel Bělobrádek. Mrs. Social Affairs Secretary Marksová-Tominová will be ready. Please, Vice-President, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u120	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, of course I do not have the data. I would like to give them to you, but we have been so alerted to the fact that even if it were not massively, it is simply logical that if this pillar is to be abolished, it is not logical for others to enter it. I think it's simple logic, and even without fixed numbers, it can be clearly accepted. Then I would have responded to my colleague Laudát. The evolution in society is quite dramatic and in some Western countries the middle class sort of disappears and actually the pyramid that brings together the whole social system turns into an hourglass, where the middle class is significantly marginalized, which I am not saying is a good thing, but I say that there are relatively strong shifts. I would like to say to my colleague Adamová that I do not think that she listened very carefully because, if I am not mistaken, the Minister of Finance did not say that he would present it here in June, but that in June he would present it to the coalition partners. That means I hope it's not here. We've finally learned surprisingly for us here that something like this is going on, we didn't know that before, so it's surprising for us, so I hope we don't find this complete proposal here in the House. That would be a little guerrilla. I think it would be good to work with the Potůčkův Commission as well. And as for the money, maybe if it's so meaningless to ban entry into the second pillar that we didn't have to talk about it for two hours and save quite a lot of taxpayers' money by simply voting or voting without such a discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u121	Thank you, and please, to the microphone with the actual Mrs. Secretary Marksová-Tominová. Mr Laudát will be prepared with de facto effect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u122	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. I don't know the number 'cause they have it at the Treasury Department, it's not going through our ministry at all. However, when the Ministry of Finance comes in and says that it has signals and that speculative inputs to the second pillar need to be avoided, I, of course, believe them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u123	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Laudát's mike, de facto. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u124	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Are we gonna get those two numbers, or are we not gonna find out? And then I want to ask how this government works. How responsible are you? Here we have heard from two ministers, or the vice prime minister and minister, that they don't know the numbers. So what's your decision, anyway? You make the emotional decisions. Then we can't be surprised how the economy ends. Suddenly, Mr. Vice Prime Minister may find that the hole in the state register will be greater than 100 billion. You're very lucky there's an economic recovery. Otherwise, we've already had a trajectory for Greece. This really is absolutely unbelievable. Then tell us the two numbers. I'm just rejecting some signals. Is it like a molded mirror of rotten American society? I've heard that for 25 years or how much before the socialism was over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u125	Thank you. We have so far exhausted the factual points and I have Mr Fiedler's proper application here for a general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u126	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. With a proper application, but I promise I won't talk long enough because we've been talking here long enough. I just want to say that there's a debate here about how many signals there are about new participants who want to enter the second pillar. I think it is very right here and very precisely said by Minister Bělobrádek that it is not about how many people want to enter, but that if the second pillar is considering abolishing it, it is perfectly logical that we prevent other people from accessing it. I consider it very simple and simple logic. And when we think here in the Chamber of Deputies about how individual clubs are building on the second pension pillar, we have clearly declared this and expressed it already during the elections. In our electoral program, it was that we were in favour of his abolition, and we did not change our mind. And here, even though we are opposition, we have a slightly different opinion than the other political clubs on the opposition wing, so I think it's really clear how this vote is going to turn out or what the attitude to the second pension pillar is and that the debate here is somewhat unnecessary. What I would like to say, however, is that it is clear that if there is no such essentials as the pension system, and now I do not specifically mean at this time, and it was also in the past, a broader consensus in the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum, then exactly what we are witnessing here is happening. As soon as there is a change in the Chamber of Deputies, the coalition of the government takes a different form from that of the previous one, we are meeting exactly what we see here, that there are big debates going on - trying to change something that the former government, the former coalition has pushed through a very tight majority without consensus with other political partners, because it should be about such fundamental things as the pension system. And I'm saying this here because it was said from the mouth of Vice Prime Minister Babiš that he was about to present a new novel, a concept, so I appeal to the current government coalition to be aware of this when we are here to discuss it, so that the creation of such a proposal takes place in wider cooperation, so that we do not again witness that we will be here, not us, but some new Chamber of Deputies, to return to that. [[12.00 hours]] The last thing, a brief mention, was heard again from Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek's mouth. It is an interesting finding for both the Chamber of Deputies and the public that it probably doesn't work so well in the coalition when Minister Bělobrádek here said that he found out here in the Chamber of Deputies that something like this Ministry of Finance and Vice Prime Minister Babiš is planning and wants to prepare, so it is really strange for me how this coalition works. However, I must say that, unfortunately, we also had experience with similar negotiations at our parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u127	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Good noon, ma'am and gentlemen. I would like to continue with the end of the debate, but there is a factual remark by Mr František Laudát, still in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would have responded to a colleague named Fiedler. If so, in the same logic, I ask why we are here to deal with biofuels. The European Union also wants to abolish the support of first generation biofuels, so why do we have to extend them here? That's the exact same problem, except maybe there's two, three, four lines, I don't know, because I haven't learned the two numbers since this morning, but otherwise it's all the same in principle. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, although he is not here, this implies how important it is for individual ministers or vice-premiers to sit in the House. There's no way they're gonna know what they're not gonna say to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u129	Thank you for keeping time. I have no application for a debate, so I am ending the general debate. If I have comments here, we can move on to the debate in detail. This is where Mr Vilímec is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In a detailed debate, I will first refer to the amendment contained in House document 2045. This is a cancellation point I Article 1, transitional provisions of this draft law. The reasoning is obvious, after all, I could refer to my speech in the general debate, but briefly. This is the abolition of the point that stops the entry of new participants into the second pillar before the relevant political decision is made, because I do not think it is reasonable to anticipate such a political decision. After all, even from the debate in the general debate on the left, I have heard that people do not trust the second pillar, so they do not enter it. On the contrary, from most of the same protagonists, there was a need to stop the possibility of entering the second pillar for speculative reasons. As you well know, neither the Minister of Finance nor the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs have been able to tell the House how much it has entered in recent months from the so-called House. speculative reasons for the second pillar. Finally, in November or December, Deputy Minister of Finance Martin Pros, who is probably the deputy nominated for social democracy, commented that the government's decision to abolish the second pillar in 2016 led to a sharp recovery of interest in joining this pillar. This was said by the relevant deputy in November or December, and I would quite wager with the Minister of Finance and the Minister that the status of the participants in the second pillar is still the same, because people simply do not believe the second pillar because of the historical reaction that has fallen. Therefore, I see no reason, no reason for us to stop entering this system by law before this honourable House decides on the second pillar's further existence. I do not see any reason for this, so I am proposing an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-002-004.u131	Thank you, Mr. Vilímc. I have no written application for a detailed debate, I see no one from the point of view, and I conclude a detailed debate. I'll ask the rapporteur to check on me. In the general debate or in the detailed debate, there was no proposal that would be put to the vote in my opinion, that is, neither the return of the guarantee committee to discuss nor the shortening of the deadline for third reading, because it is not necessary, nor that the guarantee committee should be concerned with this proposal. So I can end the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point 4. Now, according to the agenda of our meeting, we will embark on the next points that we have before us, and those are points 15, 16 and 17.
