ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and other related laws /German press 418/ - second reading I ask the Minister of Agriculture to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u2	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me present the 418 press at today's Chamber of Deputies meeting in the second reading. As I have already mentioned, this press has been discussed repeatedly here, but I will still allow myself to have the opening word that will sum up some new facts that took place during the holidays. The aim of this material is to implement a multi-annual programme to support the continued application of sustainable biofuels in transport for the period 2015 to 2020, which was 12 years old. 8. 2015 approved by the European Commission. The multiannual support programme was drawn up by the Ministry of Agriculture and approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 6. 8. 2014 by resolution 655. The aid, which is currently granted under still valid non-scheduled legislation, is based on the previous multiannual support programme, which expired on 30. 6. 2015. From that time until the amendment to the Law on excise duties comes into effect, overcompensated support will be provided in the Czech Republic as a result of a significant extension of the discussion of the proposal in the Chamber of Deputies. This is now not only disproportionately high, but it is also drawn in favour of biofuels, which are used to fulfil the low-percent incorporation obligation. The European Commission has ordered the Czech Republic to take corrective measures by 1 at the latest. 1. 2016 and, at the same time, ensure that the Czech Republic provides for increased rates of excise duty for a transitional period in order to compensate for undue aid. In the absence of appropriate corrective measures, i.e. acceptance of printing 418 and related required adjustments according to the decision of the European Commission by 1. 1. 2016, the Czech Republic is exposed to the risk of sanctions by the European Commission. From 1. 1. The new version of the European State Aid Guidelines, the Article 114 of which clearly declares that it is no longer acceptable to include in the fulfilment of the obligations of low-percent incorporation of high-percent biofuels with aid, will enter into force. A 100% separation of the obligation to mix from supported biofuels is therefore necessary. This will result in a significant decrease in the volume of subsidised biofuels and the projected savings of the state budget. In accordance with the decision of the European Commission, it would continue to apply for the period from 1. 1. 2016 to 30. 6. 2017 should be the following: For FAME B100 4,59 CZK/litre and for mixed diesel 9,263 CZK/litre. The amount of excise duty refund on alcohol used for the production of ethanol E85 should be CZK 10,229/litre. After the end of this transitional period, the excise duty rates should be as follows: For FAME B100 CZK 2,19 per litre, for mixed diesel CZK 8,515 per litre and return on E85 alcohol CZK 10,97 per litre. The level of proportionality of the aid will be assessed annually and the excise duty rates will be adjusted accordingly in case of further overcompensation. In addition to the tax advantage of biofuels, the proposed bill also includes the introduction of continuous monitoring of the performance of the fuel supplier's obligation to mix biofuels into the Czech market. If the fuel supplier fails to comply with the prescribed obligation during the calendar year, he will be obliged to provide a security from the volume of biofuels not delivered. In the event of failure to fulfil that supplier's annual obligation, this security shall be counted against the fine of the volume of biofuels not delivered. The reduction of the fixed period will contribute significantly to the reduction of the use of biofuels contrary to the Air Protection Act. At the same time, there will be a reduction in the amount of any default on the fine from the outstanding volume of biofuels in cases where the fuel supplier has long been placing fuel on the Czech fuel market without fulfilling the statutory obligation in the reference period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u3	Thank you, Minister. At first reading, we have ordered this press as a guarantee to the Committee on Budgets and also to the Agricultural and Environmental Committee. The relevant resolutions have been distributed to you as press 418/1 to 5. I therefore ask first of all the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, that is to say the budget, Mr Kalousek, to inform us of the discussion of this press in the committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just remind you that this press is amending two laws: the Consumer Tax Act and the Air Protection Act. The Committee on Budgets has discussed this press and recommends it to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the amendment adopted. I note that this amendment adopted by the Committee on Budgets is essentially a reflection of the amendment approval, i.e. additionally, what has been negotiated and notified with the European Commission. In addition to this report, I would like to point out that I was in a minority, I personally disagree with this resolution, so I am reporting to the general and detailed debate, to express my opinion and to present my revised amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u5	Thank you. Please the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Turek. Mr Kučera, who is rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the agricultural committee of the 23rd meeting of this committee. On 14 October 2015, the Agricultural Committee discussed the draft House press 418 and adopted the following resolution. The Agricultural Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies of the Government's Bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and other related laws, approve as amended. The amendment is a response to the notification by the European Commission. So much for the resolution of the agricultural committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u7	Thank you. I don't see Mr. Kučera here. I see. I'll also equip him with the relevant document. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u8	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the 75th resolution of the Environment Committee of the 26th meeting of 14 October 2015. The Committee on the Environment recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve it as amended by the amendments adopted, the contents of which you have in the House document. At the same time, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and empowers the Committee rapporteur to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u9	Thank you. I am opening a general debate, in which I have the application first for Mr Kalousek and then for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very brief, because the debate has been going on long and passionately, but there are still some things that need to be repeated over time. As a scrap metal bill, which has been adopted by a number of European states, has entered into the history of their legal systems as a law to support the automotive industry, so undoubtedly this law, once approved, will enter into the history of our rule of law as a law to support the Agrofert Group. The only difference is that nowhere in the countries where scrap was received, the owner of the car group was not at the same time the Minister of Finance and the First Vice-President of the Government. Otherwise, it's the same thing. I would just like to remind myself how the mechanism for the use of biofuels works now and how it will work when this standard is adopted. It is now that we have compulsory incorporation, which is due to the European directive, which requires us to mix about 6 percent of biodiesel into diesel and 4,2 percent of bio-oil into alcohol, and these mixed components are not in any way tax-friendly. In addition, there is a sale of high-volume biofuels, which are completely exempt from tax, which means that there is significant public support because they are tax-privileged. The distributor has an obligation to sell a certain volume of biofuels corresponding to mandatory incorporation during the calendar year and has the right under current law to deduct what it sells as a net, tax-favoured component from the compulsory incorporation. Big distributors subtract something, mix something, sell something loose. In an extreme case, one can imagine, and this actually happens for a number of distributors, that they sell so much pure biofuels that they no longer have to mix, because they have fulfilled the obligation to sell tax-favoured clean biofuels. It could just be deducted 100% from each other. Now there is an amendment that slightly reduces public support and that still tax-free high-volume clean biofuels will be taxed, but they will be taxed so kindly that they will still be very competitive in the market and will still be cheaper than fossil biofuels, but 70 percent will be reduced by the benefit of the option to deduct. This means no matter how much I sold as a distributor of pure biofuels, so I am obliged to mix at a minimum volume of 70 per cent, that means no longer 6 per cent of biodiesel, but 4 per cent of biodiesel, not 4 per cent of bio alcohol, but 2.8 per cent of bio alcohol, but I have to mix if I sell clean biofuels ten times more than my obligation. In other words, by 70 percent this amendment reduces the possibility of 100% deduction, which logically shows that in extreme cases up to 70 percent will increase the demand for biofuels on the market, because the pure biofuels, given that they will be price-competitive thanks to the public support, will be cheaper than fossils, will continue to be sold. For example, ask the President of the Association of Transport and Industry entrepreneurs, Mr Hanák, who runs a large logistics company. He says, "Yes, I ride it because it's six crowns a liter. Who's gonna give it to me?" I don't blame him. If it wasn't for six crowns a liter, of course it wouldn't. In other words, this business will continue because it will be advantageous and cost-competitive not because the manufacturer makes something competitive, but because it is supported by public support. In addition, no matter what the net quantity is sold, there will be a new obligation to mix at least 70 per cent, i.e. objectively, sales will increase in favour of the producer. Of course, no one but the manufacturer can make money from that. Just as no one but the manufacturer can make money from public support. I've heard a number of government officials looking into the camera, almost seemed like they meant it: The manufacturer doesn't have any of it because the tax relief goes to the distributor. That's what the distributor charges. That, of course, is true. And distributor doesn't really care if he sells tax-for-tax biofuels or expensive fossil fuels, but it doesn't matter whether his biofuels are competitive because of public support or not. That's exactly the same as with scrap metal, which I sometimes give as an example. The contribution to the purchase of a new car has never been formulated as a contribution to poor motorists so that they can buy a car because they received the advantage, but it has always been quite correctly presented as a support to the automotive industry. Because thanks to the donation, the cars went to the market. If there was no public support, if there was no tax relief for clean biofuels, then the manufacturer wouldn't sell it because it wouldn't be competitive. Because we're all going to add billions of our pockets to it, the manufacturer is going to sell it, because thanks to our public support, the manufacturer is going to supply a price-competitive product. It's simple, pure as a slap, I think everyone understands it, just someone just doesn't want to hear the truth. [[16.30 hours]] It's the exact same thing with the volume. To whom and in what amount do we allocate public support? If the public support is estimated by the press we have in our hands, 418 to a total of CZK 9 billion, and if RIA specifically mentions this printing by individual producers of biodiesel, biolith and says that Agrofert has more than 50 percent on this market, then more than 50 percent of the 9 billion is 5 billion. 5 billion from taxpayers' pockets to Agrofert Group. That's a three-member, and I think it's understandable, and you all understand that. It happens to be interesting - it doesn't sit here, Minister Marksová, but the charming thing about it is that the amount that we're going to direct from public funds every year to Agrofert's profits is exactly the amount she's asked for for the blind, the disabled to increase their social welfare. He can't give it to you, Madam Secretary, because he himself has little, and he would miss the money for his Preolas and his factories. Either one or the other. This is a question of budgetary priorities. You're prepared to approve this, co-workers, colleagues. Of course, if you approve, it's your right. It won't be my shame. I can't vote for it. History will simply evaluate this once, because compulsory incorporation is indeed our commitment to the European Union. The tax advantage is not our obligation. Nobody's asking us to do that. That's just what Agrofert wants us to do. The fact is, we did it. The fact is that we are allowed to do so, because Minister Jurečka did, and he certainly knew why he was doing so, for many months in Brussels. So we're allowed to, but we're not ordered to. We're only ordered by the mandatory incorporation. This means that the excise tax amendment is really necessary, but it is necessary to treat those high-volume clean biofuels exactly the same as fossil fuels or those biofuels that are being mixed up and that it is simply being fully taxed. Then it'll be fair. Then there'll only be mandatory incorporation. That's mandatory. Distributors will receive it from the person who gives it the cheapest in the appropriate quality. And no one can say anyone will be favored. But if it is approved in this form, it cannot be called a law on public support to the Agrofert Group. It's up to you to approve. I really do not, and that is why I would like to put forward an amendment in a detailed debate - and here I confess quite frankly, none of us is an expert on everything, so I apologise to my colleague. It is an amendment that I have literally and to the letter copied from Mr Rais of the ANO movement, who, when he presented it in the press 417 when Enlighteningly, Mr Rais proposed to abolish the tax advantage for all high-volume biofuels. The Ministry of Finance supported this proposal. I remember that Mr Faltýnek called very much for this proposal to be voted on as the first, because he had the support of the Ministry of Finance. And as I am looking for that political consensus, I have simply copied it from Mr Rais, and I confess honestly. I hope you'll forgive me, Professor. I firmly hope that the Ministry of Finance will remain consistent in its position and will continue to recommend this amendment, as it recommended it. And I sure hope we all have some sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u11	There is now one factual point - Mr Rais. Then Mr Stanjura's priority right and then Mr Pavera's proper application. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u12	Have a good day. I want to assure Mr Kalousek that Mr Rais is developing, too, so I have moved a little further in my amendments and we have discussed my new amendment in the budgetary framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u13	One more factual one - Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wouldn't want to delay. I just want to respond to my colleague Kalousek. I feel that we have already said enough here that we basically have no choice but to live up to what the European Union wants us to do - with this step to support the 100% biofuels. I do not want to mention here for several times that this proposal introduces a tax, I am not saying that it is somehow dizzy but not so small, but the government before, where Mr Kalousek was Minister of Finance, approved it absolutely without any tax. But I have one more question, and I don't know if it's been answered. But I hope that my colleague will answer me through the President. When Mr. Faltýnek here read it here, the stew footage - to the last drop of blood and to the last man five years ago defended the subsidy, respectively. that advantage and zero tax. Where did it happen that he turned 100 percent like this, and today it's totally unacceptable to him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u15	Such a factual remark by Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u16	I have answered ten times, and I am happy to answer the eleventh, through the President. In 2009, incorporation was not mandatory. In 2009, we therefore approved tax relief for clean biofuels. When compulsory incorporation came, we deliberately made a 100% deduction, so that it didn't mean an increase, and logically we assumed that when the notified tax relief ended, it would be fully taxed. The notified tax relief ended in 2015. Because we wanted either one or the other. But you want both. And both are already immorality. I want the same thing all the time: either one or the other. I still want mandatory incorporation, but no more tax relief. Or there should be a tax relief, but then there should be no mandatory incorporation. But it cannot, because that is what the European Commission wants us to do. You are wrong, my colleague, when you say that the European Commission is asking us for tax relief. The European Commission just wants us to mix it up. Only the Agrofert Group wants that tax relief. And I want one or the other. And since I would rather comply with the European Commission than with the Agrofert Group, I want mandatory incorporation, but I don't want tax relief. Is that clear, please, nice?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u17	Now, therefore, with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So first, I have to go back to the previous point. I don't like to do this, but I have to get the tape. Senator Bublan here said that a member of the ODS Senator's Club voted in favour of the Senate Bill proposal, last item. I had it checked out. It wasn't the House website. It's not true. Neither. Let me get this straight. I believe it was an unintentional misconduct on the part of the senator. But just so we're clear, he doesn't use the second or third reading that your fellow member in the Senate voted for it. It's not true. Whoever wants to verify my words can do it just as I do: senat.cz. They've got a little more complicated than we have to find the vote, but you'll find it. There's results, there's junk. So much for the last point. Now to this point. We discussed this press with the Minister of Agriculture on the Committee on Budgets. I asked him specific questions that I didn't get an answer to, which I understood, and I understood that I would learn the answers today. The minister didn't mention it in the opening words, so I'll repeat the questions. Firstly, I asked how many Member States of the European Union will use a combination of compulsory incorporation and tax relief from 1 January 2016. I understand the Minister couldn't get off the hook then. But it's been a day since the budget committee's meeting, so I believe we'll get accurate information. And not as it was in 2013. I asked how it would be from January 1, 2016. [[16.40 hours]] And the second question I asked was what is the qualified estimate of the Ministry of Agriculture, how much more will the need for mixed diesel increase. Because, in addition to the fact that there is tax relief and at the same time compulsory incorporation and tax relief is attractive for carriers for the reasons mentioned by the rapporteur, and it is logical, so the total amount of what the Czech Republic has to fulfil will not newly be able to account for the entire volume of the high volume. There is a restriction, that is, logically, and that is the three-member or one of the three-members that we are talking about and which we are talking about in the long term, the consumption of compulsory incorporation, fuel consumption must increase. And I wanted to hear an estimate of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Minister himself. First, we learned that today it's one third to two thirds in favor of the high-bsah, the one hundred percent. Then the Minister stated that it is the other way around that one third are the 100% and two thirds of the compulsory incorporation. However, if we put the limit into the total sum, logically, to fulfil the overall assignment, the component of the mandatory incorporation must increase. And I wonder what the guess is. And that's the benefit for all the suppliers. I don't want to make a distinction here about who's going to deliver it, whether it's domestic, foreign, who owns it, who doesn't own it. We've been talking about this for quite a while. But that's the benefit for the supplier. And I'll go back to what Mr. Volný said here. It is simply not true what it says - we have nothing to actually deal with, we have to comply with the EU, so let us approve it quickly. When you read the notification in detail, and we received both the original and the Czech translation, you will find that yes, we have to do the mandatory incorporation, and the European Commission allows us to do so with tax relief. It's not what he's asking us to do! And that really is a completely different principle. So let's not say we do everything Brussels wants us to do. What Brussels wants us to do, we're going to do something else. So argue otherwise, for example, by being attractive to carriers because they have lower fuel costs. That is an argument I agree with. I mean for us, for civil democrats, we do not support either - neither compulsory incorporation nor tax relief. And we know what the European Commission wants, but we are almost sure that in a few years' time, as the EU's approach to first generation biofuels is being revised at this time, so in a few years' time, what is happening from 2016 to 2020 will also be critically assessed. I think that the results of the first period, and I am not talking about the Czech Republic, but I am talking in general about what it does with the landscape, how it is preferred by some type of crop, because it is economically advantageous, the facts are already on the table today, the studies are on the table, only those environmental activists who advocated it back then in Brussels and, unfortunately, the European Commission as a whole succumbed to it, so no one doubts that we have that commitment, I'm just saying that if we could freely decide, we would also be against the mandatory incorporation. This is a reality and this is the disadvantage of the constant transfer of competences from the Czech Republic to Brussels, and these arguments and these opinions will unfortunately be repeated very often, because Brusel is dealing with what it does not have to deal with, and precisely the opposite. So I would ask if the Minister would answer those two questions, because I think it is good to know a qualified estimate or an international comparison with other countries that have the same responsibilities as the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u19	There are now three factual points: Mr Volný Member, then Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u20	Thank you. I've been really, really short. Of course, Brusel does not order us to subsidize biofuels, but what I do know about it, maybe I don't know as much as my colleague Stanjura, so we have an obligation to add up to 10 vol. per cent into fuels to some date, and then there is a very important paragraph of compliance with CO2 emissions, and I don't know if we are able to achieve that without 100% biodiesel. But, like Stanjura's colleague for the tape screen, so that no delusions are said here, so the incorporation is mandatory since 2007 and 2008, which means in 2009, when the last government decided on it, there has already been compulsory incorporation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u21	Mr Bendl and Mr Borka will be prepared. He's downloading it, so Mr. Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u22	Thank you for the floor. I am convinced that the future will show that this amendment of the law will need to be changed significantly or better abolished, because it will be found to be harmful in every way. For example, the fact that it will also be incorporated into a fuel that has not yet been incorporated into it has not been incorporated into it, and that ordinary engines of individual cars, which are not used to this type of fuel, are going to fail. And all of you who raise your hands for it, I think when these people go to the service room, don't forget to remind them that it was you who sent them to the service room. But I wanted to remind you here one more question that we asked the Minister of Agriculture, and I would like to ask if he would answer at least in the second reading: where will the thousands of new jobs come from? When the Minister of Agriculture here promoted this bill, he talked about bringing thousands, 16,000 jobs. So where they will arise when, and I repeat that again, we know that no more rape will fit into the Czech Republic and it will need to be imported and that it will bring nothing really to Czech agriculture. It's just for those farmers who are looking forward to how rape will be even more advantageous. It won't. It will be imported and processed only in our possible processing plants, which are in the Czech Republic. Even the number for the future will be interesting how much rape oil or components we needed to use for mixing had to be imported instead of growing them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u23	Now, Mr. Pavera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to my amendment, which I have put into the system under number 2177. But before I get to it, I just want to say that, of course, biofuels as such are actually supported in Europe, but second-generation biofuels are also supported there. I know that on the Committee on Agriculture I think that here in the Chamber of Deputies, Minister Jurečka said that second generation biofuels and third generation biofuels will also be supported if they are ever supported in any way in the future, and I am a little bothered by the fact that the explanatory report said that we have no second generation biofuels at all. They may not be according to Czech standard, but they are according to European standard. They are biofuels that are produced in a Liberec company made from rendering fats. Under European law, they are second-generation biofuels. Unfortunately, according to Czech standards, they do not comply. So I believe that, in line with the European standard, it will somehow be okay. But I wanted to respond to my amendment and just explain some of the reasons why I tabled the amendment. The amendment is inserted as § 43g, where the paragraph is referred to as one and paragraph two is inserted as follows: an operator of a tax warehouse of mineral oils referred to in Section 58 paragraph is considered economically stable for the purposes of this Act. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (a) and (b) which provides for tax protection in the manner and at the level laid down by this law. For the tax warehouse operators referred to in the previous sentence, the obligation laid down in § 43j para. 2. Just to explain what § 43j para. 2. In this section 43j para. 2 is written by me.: The holder of an authorisation shall, within the time limit for the supply of the tax return on income, notify the tax administrator of the information necessary for the assessment of economic stability. This means that the tax warehouse that trades biofuels or produces biofuels must still, on the basis of some requirements of the customs office, fulfil any other conditions required by the customs office. [[16.50 hours]] If the tax warehouse wants to produce biofuels, it has to report the amount of fuel produced. The amount of fuel produced must be paid in advance on a special account by the customs office or, where applicable, by the customs office. must lodge a bank guarantee with a financial institution which is approved by the customs office. Similarly, when biofuels want to be exported from the plant, they must also report the amount of exported fuel and, on the basis of the amount of exported fuel, they must post a pre-tax deposit corresponding to the amount of exported biofuels or they can also guarantee bank guarantees at the financial institution approved in advance by the customs office. And I point out one fact why we should accept this amendment: it is partially discriminatory for these companies. At the same time, there is also a need for bureaucracy. Of course, when I was on the Committee on Agriculture and we discussed the amendment, it was not supported in the Committee on Agriculture. And I am very interested in what Mrs Hornochová, Deputy Minister of Finance, said there, that if we happen to approve this amendment, there would be some kind of corruption environment. I think it's more likely to threaten a corrupt environment where a man decides. And precisely by deciding whether the company is economically stable or unstable, a customs official can cause further corruption. So much to explain why I tabled the amendment, and I believe you will consider its possible support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u25	Thank you, too. There is now a factual remark from Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u26	Thank you. I just wanted to fill out the questions for the Minister. They were mentioned in Mr Stanjura's speech - thousands of jobs. Now, Mr. Secretary and I have been arguing about whether 14,000 or 16,000. It's not that important. What is important is that in the material we are supposed to approve, the government states that even if there is 9 billion public support, the impact will be fiscally positive, because the thousands of jobs and their taxes and contributions to the health and social wealth of those 9 billion, of which 5 billion. It's for Agrofert, he exports. I'd like to ask the Minister if he really believes it. If he really believes what's written in the material that it's going to mean so much increase in employment, that he's going to balance it, he's actually going to outweigh the public support. Because that's what the government is writing to us. And I think, and I even think that maybe even the chairman of the club of the ANO movement thinks that the government is making fun of us, that it's just nonsense. But I'm interested in your authoritarian opinion, Minister, to say - I believe they're telling you the truth!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u27	I do not have another application for a general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I will ask whether the rapporteur or the Minister now wants a final word after a general debate or after a detailed one. [[The rapporteur does not want Kalousek.]] Minister yes, so please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u28	Thank you. The discussion was quite rich in the discussions of all three committees last week, but I will sum up a few facts for other Members who were not present. It should be noted that we have voluntarily committed ourselves to having a share of renewables in transport at 10 per cent in 2020. After all the various rethinked criteria, the European Commission and the European Parliament have confirmed this year that 9 per cent of these 10 per cent can be met and biofuels should be filled. In the period before 2010, the governments of that day were to decide what strategy they would choose to meet this goal here, whether it would be electromobility or whether it would be some other alternative drives. However, at that time, the government made a significant point in the direction that we would rely primarily on achieving this goal through biofuels. I would like to stress that biofuels are not only the methyl ester of rape oil. Biofuels are all other possible substances that we can identify as biofuels, which we can then use as fuel fuel. There's bioethanol from sugar beet production, and there's other substances called second and third generation biofuels. And I would like to point out that this bill with these biofuels of the second and third generations, or rather. counts others that science and research will bring in the future. They are expected to be in the spirit of a full 100% advantage or, if those biofuels are close to the parameters of the high-percent known today, they will probably be similar to those of biofuels now that they have been notified to the European Commission. I would further point out that in that first five-year period, I think the Minister of Finance Kalousek had actually started the notification at that time, it was reported roughly that the aid would be possible up to a little more than 11 billion. Crowns. Really, the aid was granted in the amount of 5.6 billion. Crowns. This means about half of the originally allocated estimated amount of the ceiling mentioned at the time. We've got about $9 billion in the notification today. Crowns. We're assuming that real support won't even be at the level of 5 billion. In view of the fact that we are now increasing the consumption tax on high-percent biofuels for a transitional period of one-and-a-half years, and with regard to the currently very low fuel prices, the high-percent biofuels for that year and a half will become very problematic competitive and we will see if the car transport operators will even be willing to buy these high-percent biofuels to the extent that they have so far. It should be noted that out of the total volume of biofuels, 45 per cent are currently biofuels made from sugar beet. This means that the often mentioned three-member, which the Minister often referred to, is far from the case if we would even like to accept its logic that the aid is paid to fuel distributors who buy according to the best supply and demand at the time. It's either one or the other that's been mentioned here. So I wonder why the government didn't decide much sooner - either one or the other. And I would remind you of one important thing. We are in a situation where, according to the technical standards we have in the Czech Republic, we are able to meet the mandatory incorporation of around 5.6 percent of biofuels in transport. And we need to ask ourselves what we're gonna do to add the rest to the 10 percent, the 4.4 percent. It's 2015 today. Nobody here has actually said, and even in the past, no government has commissioned research to do this so that we can move forward here. So one of the options to fill these 4.4 percent is just over high-percent biofuels. That's why we keep them there. That's why it's not one or the other. At the same time, they are high-percent biofuels, which may be the biofuels that have been mentioned here by Mr Herbert, if I am not mistaken, which is already being produced in the Czech Republic. And they're going to be produced in more volume in our country. They may be usable. But that is no longer a question for me as Minister of Agriculture, but this biofuels must quantify and recognise the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I confess to my fellow Member Stanjur, I am unable to give you today, Mr President, information on how many states will be in the European Union from 1. 1. 2016. We don't have it all together at the Ministry, and we're doing everything we can to present this information to you at least at third reading. And how much will be increased by the consumption of biofuels by compulsory incorporation, no one today is able to quantify that precisely because we do not know how high-percent biofuels will be sold. I don't know the current price outlook, if in six months or three quarters of a year one barrel of oil is going to cost so much and so much if that price goes up or down. These are large variables that no one today is able to accurately mark or say. And I just want to say that if I'm not mistaken, there's no 16,000 in the explanatory statement. jobs, but there is talk of less than 14,000. jobs in the whole sector, which are already partially there today. And some in the case of approximation to the value of those 10 percent of renewables in transport, some in production and distribution will still arise in some way. So about so much more brief documentary about the debate that was here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u29	That was the final word after the general debate. I am opening the debate in detail. I have an application for Mr Böhnisch, then the rapporteur and Mr Pavera. First of all, Mr Böhnisch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am just going to sign up for my amendment, which is uploaded into the system as House document 3037 including written justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u31	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u32	Thank you. Before I apply to my amendment, I would like to point out that the Minister, although he wrote it to us and even signed up for it, does he not want to sign up for it now, with the employment, and with that - is it really not, Minister, a bit feminine to tell us the truth? Minister, if we have Mr Herbert, we have Minister Marian. Minister Marian, no - no - I hope I didn't touch you, Marian you are. [[with laughter:]] [[I'm sorry.]] But we're really wondering if you believe the nonsense that's written in your document that the public support is balanced by the employment. So the fact-- I think we deserve to hear it-- maybe we'd just be happy if you said, "that's what some bureaucrats wrote to me, and I think, when I think about it, it's nonsense." It would certainly be more honest than avoiding the answer. Otherwise, allow me, in the context of the amendment - in the context of a detailed debate, to make my amendment, which I have put into the system, to be number 3031. As I have already announced, it is not my amendment, it is a proposal that, with all the professional care, was written by an ANO Member, Professor Rais. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. We will continue with the detailed debate. Another logged in - just a moment, Mr Bendl has a point of fact, prefers you, Mr Pavera, so you can speak. Then, with a factual remark, Mr Bendl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u34	Good evening again. I'm not mad at the Minister at all, he's not the first one to mistake my name, it's so unusual, so nothing's going on at all. Madam Vice-President Jermanová made a mistake a while ago. I just want to sign up for my amendment, which is listed in the system as House Document No 2177. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u35	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Bendl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u36	I just really wanted to support my colleague Pavera's amendment, although I believe that biofuels will not be, or that high-percent fuel too competitive for the beet. In time, I think it'll show up, see what the numbers will look like. Otherwise, I wanted to advise the Minister of Agriculture that there might actually be thousands of jobs in the repairing of those cars that will then, I'll say, fight that bio-bearer in the oil. I think we'll remember that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u37	Thank you. Now I do not see any more entered into the detailed debate. If this is the case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. Since there was no proposal for a refund or a reduction in the deadline, in which case I will end the second reading of this proposal. Mr. Faltýnek is claiming priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u38	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to make a procedural proposal on behalf of two parliamentary clubs, social democracy and YES, so that we can act today and vote in a procedural and territorial manner and act after 19 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-20-ps2013-033-05-002-021.u39	Thank you. As this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering your request to sign you off, I'm doing it. I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your cards. The number has settled. I therefore begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the proposal, as it was put forward, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 102. 141 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 115, against 9. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We will continue with the programme as it has been approved. I'm opening a point, and that's it.
