ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u1	171. Oral inhalation The Prime Minister is already here. The first draw is Mr. Václav Klučka. I'd like him to give his interview to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, as far as coalition MPs are concerned, we are mostly criticized for interpelling, and this is just a stretch of time. I want to convince you that the problem of volunteer firefighters won't be a stretch of time. On Saturday the 5th Congress of the Association of Firefighters of Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia in Pardubice took place. Prime Minister, you were present at this convention. Part of the Association of Firefighters of Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia and the education of individual members are voluntary firefighters, which are created by individual municipalities. You have heard some opinions at the convention that say that not everything in the operation of units is okay, that financing voluntary firefighters is a structure that at the moment does not ensure the full effectiveness of the operational deployment of units in intervention. Prime Minister, what is this government going to do with the problem of fire units? What are his proposals to complement their funding, at what time can it be expected to be corrected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u3	I'll thank you and ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u4	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I think this is quite a big and important subject, because we have several tens of thousands of people in our country, somewhere around 70 thousand. people who are organized in voluntary firefighters, and the topic of financing their activities is undoubtedly important, because a significant part of these congregations acts as part of an integrated rescue system and is directly involved in the assistance that is absolutely necessary, and I would like to mention above all that irreplaceable, because a number of mayors especially in the countryside, if they need to do something really, somehow really helpful to the citizens, are mostly dependent on volunteer firefighters. Whatever the floods are, whatever the technical accidents, whatever the other security risks, there's always volunteer firemen. I am very pleased that one thing has worked, which we have tried very hard here in this Chamber of Deputies in recent years. We ran into a lot of resistance. This time it was the lobby of insurance companies, which prevented us from creating a fund of barriers to the damage of Czech insurers' offices. That's a good one, in the end. The amendment of the law has succeeded and this year is very important, because for the first time in 2015, significant resources will be distributed to voluntary firefighters. It's going to be 97 miles this year. CZK, this is not a small amount, and 31 municipalities will receive the subsidy for a new car with a tanker. 31 municipalities get after 2.5 miles. CZK as a subsidy and 14 municipalities will get 1.5 million for the reconstruction of the car with tank. Kč. If the financial sector is stable and we have no reason to believe that it is not, similar amounts could also be distributed in the coming years. Another important fund that we want to use to help volunteer firefighters is the Integrated Regional Operational Programme between 2014 and 2020. This programme was approved by the European Commission this year. This means they are starting to prepare specific challenges and the aim is to secure funds for the firehouses, that would be the first grant title, that is to say, new dislocations or modernizations of existing firehouses. Secondly, we would like to provide money from these resources from the European Union to strengthen the equipment of the basic components of the integrated rescue system by technology and material means. This means, here are the possibilities that will be offered by the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, and even here the Ministry of the Interior is, of course, already working together with the Ministry for Regional Development to be able to launch challenges and draw on these funds. The last, most recent initiative is a plan by the Ministry of the Interior to create a new joint subsidy programme, which would involve the Ministry of the Interior, the Region and the municipality. This means that these three structures of the public sector would bring together funds and create a new long-term grant title that would allow the funding of the voluntary firefighters' needs where European resources cannot be obtained. This means that it would be an alternative to drawing European resources. Here we would like administrative preparations to be made this year. We would like some 200 million to be earmarked for next year's state budget negotiations at the level of the Ministry of the Interior's budget. CZK for 2016. This would be the basis to which the funds of the regions and municipalities would be added and would form a grant title, which could also be financed next year by the reconstruction of firehouses and, of course, by the recovery of technology. So many very briefly three basic resources, from which in the coming years should be jointly and relatively reliably financed by the needs of the voluntary fire brigade. But I don't think it's just about the money. It is also, of course, the overall conditions in which we volunteer firefighters operate. This was also discussed at their convention, which was now in Pardubice. I can confirm that the Ministry of the Interior has already made progress in preparing complex material for the government, which should address some of the problems that still exist with the functioning of voluntary firefighters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u5	Thank you. The Member does not wish to ask an additional question. We will now proceed to another interpellation and that is Mrs Váhalová's interpellation to the Prime Minister. Please, madam, give your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u6	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I very much welcome the fact that one of the priorities of the government is the support of the Czech film. The amendment approved by the government at the beginning of the Karlovy Vary Festival could be approved by the end of this year. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, what fundamental change this amendment will bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u7	Please, Prime Minister, your room for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u8	Thank you. Madam, it will not just matter to the government, but, of course, it will also depend on this Chamber of Deputies. I would like to inform you that the Government approved an amendment to the Audiovision Act at its meeting on 1 July, this is an amendment to Act No. 496/2012 Sb. This amendment, as approved by the government - I am glad that the entire government coalition agreed on it and the government approved it as a whole - substantially changes the support of the Czech film industry by the state. Newly introduces the system support of Czech cinema in the form of an annual regular financial subsidy from the state budget. The subsidy is proposed at the same level as the private resources of the State Cinematography Fund. This means that the value of the state contribution will be calculated each year on the basis of audiovisual fees collected by the State Cinema Fund, and will always be backward in two years. [[14.40 hours]] It can therefore be assumed that the state budget subsidy could be somewhere around 180 million. CZK annually, which would therefore mean an increase in the expenditure of the State Cinematography Fund to the amounts available to him at the moment, which means that these expenses could be around 390 miles. CZK annually, total expenditure of the cinema fund. Of course, a substantial part of these funds goes to all activities related to the support of the Czech film. I believe that this decision by the Government, if it receives the support of Parliament and the law begins to apply, will give a strong impetus to the support of Czech culture, which is a key part of Czech cinema. I think this will bring us closer to the advanced European countries, because when we were preparing this amendment, we also analysed what support looks like in the individual states of the European Union, and it turns out that in those countries that have experienced and experienced a boom in cinema, which are particularly Scandinavian countries, but also some other countries in the centre of Europe, such as Austria, these countries have significantly increased support for cinema from funds, whether private or state in the form of subsidies. The current form of support and the existing level of support in the Czech Republic was significantly lagging behind in relation to our national cinema. This does not mean that we would have reached the level of Denmark, for example, by this means, but we are able to compete at least, say, with countries in the immediate vicinity, such as Slovakia, Poland or part of Austria. So there will be a substantial systemic increase in support of Czech cinema. We are promising that more new film projects will be supported, that these new film projects will be able to be supported by substantial amounts that will simplify their funding. Of course, the state fund is not, nor can it be, the only source of financing for the production of new Czech films, but if the amount provided and the number of supported projects can be increased, it will, of course, also be an incentive and motivation for private investors in this area. The last thing I would like to mention is the consideration of the government behind this amendment of the law, not only by trying to support the Czech film, but also by trying to promote employment. It is also shown on the basis of analyses carried out by the cinematography fund in the past that this form of support allows private investment to be generated and, on the one hand, positively affects the creation and creation of new jobs in the field of services, in the area of traditional sectors which have been developed in the Czech Republic in recent years, because Czech cinematography is a concept, it has been a concept for almost a hundred years now, and I think it is good if this bill is approved that we will be able to follow that strong tradition in the Czech Republic in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u9	Thank you. The honourable Member wants to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u10	I would like to thank you for the fact that the State Cinema Fund will have the greatest support since 1993, the highest amount to support the Czech film, and I believe that this support will also be here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u11	Thank you, too. Now, to the microphone, please, Mrs Fischerová, to present her interview to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u12	Yes, thank you. Dear Prime Minister, in my interview today I will briefly address a topic which is very topical especially for the euro area countries, namely the states of the European Union and, of course, also for the Czech Republic, which is the question of Greece and the euro. I would like to ask you - I will ask you directly - which opinions you will take to the European Union's extraordinary Sunday summit. That's one question. In particular: Do you support Greece's departure from the euro area? Or do you think that Greece should continue to remain with the euro? In your opinion, isn't the adoption of the euro just one of the causes of the current situation, in addition to the poor management of left-wing governments? Shouldn't the country that has the euro and the economy now be in this situation be able to leave the payment by the euro? That was a question for you, Prime Minister. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u13	I thank the Member and the Prime Minister for his response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u14	Thank you. Madam, the development of the negotiations between Greece and the European Union is closely monitored and commented on in the Czech Republic. So I'm not focusing on some description of the whole chronology that's happened. I just want to remind you that the Greek crisis broke out in 2009-2010. At that time, the global financial crisis exposed the less visible problems of Greek public budgets. From 2010 onwards, some efforts are being made by the European Union to stabilise Greece. Two programmes were implemented that gradually allowed a part of Greece's debt to be transferred to the ownership of European institutions and, just before the second programme expired, there was no agreement between Greece and the euro area on the conditions under which this second programme was to be completed. So the second Greek support programme is over, and at this point, we're in a phase where The Greeks then rejected in the referendum the conditions under which Greece was to be financed from the second programme, while the Greek Government has asked the European Union, respectively, in recent hours. The euro area, for further financial assistance. So we are now in a situation where Greece is asking the euro area for further financial assistance, and on the euro area side it is whether it is possible and under what conditions additional financial assistance can be provided to Greece. Greece is therefore not asking for a withdrawal from the euro area, but Greece is asking for assistance from the euro area and these are the conditions. This also results in the role of the Czech Republic in the whole process. We are not members of the euro area, which means we do not participate and we have neither participated in the previous years in deciding on the conditions under which aid is to be granted to Greece. This will now be a question of the negotiations of eurozone finance ministers, and probably also of the Heads of Government and the presidents of eurozone countries, that is to say, countries that will have to comment in the final on whether the Greek proposal that Greece has promised to send today or perhaps tomorrow, so whether the Greek proposal will be acceptable for Greece's continued funding, aid from the euro area to Greece. The big problem, which, of course, increases the pressure on time, on time, is the problem of the lack of cash in the Greek financial system. As you know, Greece's banks have been closed, and Greece's banks have been funded by the European Central Bank's European emergency mechanism in recent months. The European Central Bank has been told that it will be able to secure this emergency funding by the end of this week at the latest. I think that the position of the European Central Bank is understandable, because if the Greek Government has not been able to fulfil its obligations to repay the loan by the International Monetary Fund, if at the moment it is not clear how the Greek Government will be able to meet its obligations towards the European Central Bank, which will still be due in July, it will be difficult for the European Central Bank to have a title to continue to finance the Greek financial system in an emergency. I think that the conclusion is imminent in a short time, and it is clear that at this point Greece is on the move, which has asked for the continuation of financial assistance. At this point, eurozone ministers are on the move, European institutions are on the move, that is to say, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, is on the move of the International Monetary Fund and will depend on their opinion on the reform plan that the Greek Government has promised to introduce, whether it will be possible for Greece to receive any further assistance or support. It is quite possible that if the agreement takes place during the weekend, the assistance or support to Greece will be rather short-term, that is to say some short-term carry-over loan, and the terms of the possible third package will still be negotiated in the coming weeks, because I can hardly imagine that all the details of the structural reforms that Greece will have to implement will be resolved during this weekend. I think that's going to be very difficult. I therefore expect a political decision, some political signal in relation to Greece, and Greece must at the same time show a clear will that it is ready in return for the eurozone's support to continue, that it is able to implement reforms that will support its economic growth and improve the state of its public budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u15	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member if she wants to ask an additional question. He doesn't want to. Okay. I will therefore ask the next in line, and that is Mrs Nohavová. I'm asking her to give her interview to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u16	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, it has recently been carried out at the University of Chemical Technology, where 24 food products from the Czech Republic and their German equivalents have been compared. In one third it was different both taste and composition. As an example: Czech Rama - 10 percent less fat than German, same for yogurt, sweetened drinks for the Czech market sweetened glucose-fructose syrup with aspartam, for the German sugar-sweetened market, schnapps for the Czech Republic contains 30 percent of poultry separation, exclusively pork meat for Germany. And you could go on. Manufacturers argue that differences in products adapt to the taste and habits of consumers. Do you, Prime Minister, think we like the Čech more than the meat of poultry? Moreover, in 14 cases the Czech product was more expensive. What are you going to do about it, Prime Minister? We are not like Čech in the European Union citizens of the second category. But if we allow such practices, we seem to be. If they can control product quality for their citizens from Germany, France, Britain or other countries within the EU in transnational chains, why can't we protect it? I'm begging you for an answer. I think he's also interested in our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u17	I'll thank you and ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u18	Thank you. Madam, I must say that the initiative of Mrs Olga Sehnalová, a Member of the European Parliament, which initiated the creation of a comparative analysis of Czech and German food, was very interesting and very important. I myself want to meet with the Member, and I want to get to know the results of this analysis in detail, because in my opinion, a very objective and comparable selection of samples of food sold in the Czech Republic and sold in Germany has been made here, with the fact that a whole third of these samples have actually been evaluated as different. This means that consumers may encounter the use of different sweeteners in beverages, different fat content or different types of meat used, as you have also mentioned, in meat cans, and also in some other foods and beverages, evaluators have noticed a different appearance, texture or taste intensity. Then, when those who carried out this analysis looked at the products from a price point of view, the purchase would cost both Czech and German consumers approximately the same price. As I have been informed, Mrs Sehnalová will present the results on the European Commission's premises, and she also wants to call on the European Commission to take this issue seriously. Let's say that's one direction. I am here once again stressing that I would like to meet with Mrs Sehnalová, and I would like to get to know the results in detail. I also want to mention the fact that the government is trying to increase food quality control in the Czech Republic. I think that is also the purpose of the amendment to the Food Act, which was approved at the beginning of this parliamentary term. I would also like to remind you that at its meeting last September, the government approved a regulation on the establishment of information obligations for the recipients of animal products at the place of destination. The purpose of the proposed adjustment was to guarantee fair conduct in trade in food and to protect the interests of consumers. The Ministry of Agriculture has long focused on the safety and quality of food parameters. As I have been informed, for laboratory quality determination, the National Agricultural Food Inspection Authority will take over 4,000 food lots a year, and the total number of analyses carried out is several hundred thousand. Our aim is to stabilise the control bodies available to the Czech Government and the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, there have been budget cuts in recent years, which have also been shown by being released in these audit bodies, many of which have been staffed destabilized. We focused last year on stabilizing the audit institutions from both the budget and the personnel point of view. We also want to concentrate on preparing the state budget for next year to ensure that the state's control activities have sufficient financial collateral. I believe that today our laws, as they are set up in the Czech Republic, make it possible to fine quite significantly violations of rules, principles, standards, fine consumer deception, fine the placing of dangerous food on the market, fine poor labelling of foodstuffs or inappropriate hygiene conditions in their handling, breach of conditions of food storage, etc. So I do not think that there is a fundamental problem on our side today in terms of legislation, but I think that there is a fundamental problem in terms of the effectiveness of control activity, and here I think that there is a need for the control activity to step up significantly. I am sure I will also want to contact the Ministry of Agriculture in a short time to address the research carried out by Mrs Sehnalová and, if the Ministry of Agriculture comes up with certain recommendations on how to respond to this research, I am ready to support these recommendations and support their implementation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u19	I thank and ask the honourable Member - she does not want to ask an additional question. I would like to thank you and ask Mr Kučera to give his interpellation to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, foggy, insecurity and contradictory statements. So in recent weeks the ministers of the Czech Government worked on their trips to the Ústí Region. While the Minister of Environment Brabec spoke for maintaining the mining limits, the Minister of Industry called for the mining limits to be broken down, then modified his comments and supported the suspension of the decision to break the limits for 2020. A few days later, the Labor Minister Marksová called for a quick decision in the Ústí Region. Two fundamental facts must be taken into account. First, no studies for ministers or governments will decide. The decision to break or maintain ecological mining limits is a purely political decision. You've got plenty of backgrounds, numbers, and materials. I call on you, Prime Minister, to call on the Government of the Czech Republic to stop sneaking around and decide. Unfortunately, many ministers are only now finding that they are not just beautiful and pleasing decisions and that there are decisions that will not please either one side or the other, as in the case of breaking or maintaining mining limits. Secondly, it should be pointed out that the constant displacement and delaying of decisions on the fate of the limits on brown coal mining will do no good to anyone. Municipalities, mining companies, employees, but mainly people living in the Ústí Region and around brown coal quarrys must finally be sure. Will the limits be broken? If so, at the ČSA quarry, or just at the Bílin quarry? Or will the limits be fully preserved? Such questions are asked by people from the Ústí Region today and daily. And I'd like to know the answer to them, too. At the same time, I would like to call on you to maintain ecological mining limits. Prime Minister, you will not be able to swerve before a decision is made forever. But the longer you delay the decision, the worse the impact it will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u21	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u22	Dear Member, I think things must have some kind of logical sequence. Our government has prepared an update of the state energy concept in recent months. This is an important document by a state that defines the country's guidelines for energy policy. The update of the state energy concept was approved in principle after ten years and allows the government to implement some other conceptual decisions. Then the government's decision to further develop nuclear energy followed the approval of ASEK. Following the approval of the document concerning further development of nuclear energy, where the government supported the intention of further development of the nuclear power plant in Dukovany and the further development of the nuclear power plant in Temelín, the government will discuss the third important document in autumn of this year and this is the solution to the further process of the territorial ecological limits of brown coal mining in northern Bohemia. In this material will be described and assessed the basic four variants of possible modifications of the territorial ecological limits for brown coal mining. These are the variants presented by the Ministry of Industry in February 2015 at the meeting of the Economic and Social Agreement Council. This meeting of the Council of Economic and Social Agreement resulted in the task of analysing the social and economic impact and security of coal supply for heating for individual variants of the solution of the territorial ecological limits with a deadline until the end of June 2015. Therefore, at the press conference on 30 June 2015, the Minister of Industry and Trade informed the public about the conclusions of individual studies and the draft recommendation of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which will be part of the above mentioned document. Minister Mládek stated that he would recommend a second option to the government on the basis of the conclusions of the studies. I just want to briefly mention that the four options of the next procedure are as follows. The first option is to preserve brown coal mining in northern Bohemia according to current limits, the second option is to shift the brown coal mining boundaries to the Bílin quarry, the third option is to shift the brown coal mining limit to the Bílin quarry and, at the same time, to partially break the limits on the Czechoslovak Army quarry and, fourthly, to move the brown coal mining boundaries to the Bílin quarry and to break the ecological limits on the Czechoslovak Army quarry within the second stage, the so-called big Army. These are four possible variants of the procedure that can be chosen in the Ústí Region. The Minister of Industry, when submitting material to the Government, as he informed, will support variant 2, i.e. the transfer of brown coal mining boundaries to the Bílina quarry. The intention of the second variant is to use the coal reserves that are bound by the mining limits at the Bílina mine, which means to use the coal reserves in this location economically. A further 100 to 120 million tons of coal will be available here. And I just want to mention that moving the boundaries of brown coal mining to Bílina quarry will not lead to the need to interfere with the existing settlement. This means, it will not require breaking down houses or moving people simply because further development of the mine Bílina is at this time ready, is settled and does not run into opposition or protests from the communities as is the case with the quarry of the Czechoslovak army. I believe that if the limits to the Bílina quarry are broken, provision will be made for the supply of public heat and heat to households without an increase in prices - which I think is important: without price increases - and also without destroying human settlements, which would eventually force the limits to be broken at the ČSA mine. So the government's going to be dealing with option number one. 2, as mentioned by the Minister of Industry and Trade. And I personally consider this option to be optimal from the perspective of the next procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u23	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u24	Thank you for the floor. Since I was expecting your answer, I asked myself another question. The government recently approved the updated State Energy Concept of the Czech Republic, but did not decide on the limits and requested further documentation. I ask, therefore, what is really the current energy concept when, according to the ministers, it still does not know how much brown coal will be needed and how much we will actually benefit in the coming years in the Ústí Region. The second question is when will the limits be decided. I'm just asking for a date.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u25	Thank you. I'm asking the Prime Minister for a reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u26	First of all, with regard to the updated energy concept, I think it is important to recall that this concept is not aimed at moving towards coal mining in the Czech Republic. This concept focuses on the future of Czech energy over the next few decades and defines the future as follows. The largest percentage of energy in the Czech Republic should be produced from nuclear sources. This means the proportion of energy produced from the nucleus should be between 40 and 50 percent. The second largest proportion of electricity should be obtained from renewable sources. Renewables should account for a 25- to 35 percent share of the energy mix. This means that we are trying to move our energy towards low-carbon energy, which means that this energy concept will contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Only in third and fourth place should electricity be produced from gas, possibly from coal. This means that the share of electricity produced from coal should be reduced over the course of decades, with the share of energy produced mainly from renewable sources increasing. So much for linking the energy concept to the debate on breaking limits. I think there's no contradiction to what I mentioned today, if I preferred option no. 2. When exactly will the government decide? I expect Minister Mládek to present the material to the government at the end of the summer. So I assume that during the fall, the government should decide on this issue, and I assume that from the perspective of this parliamentary term, this will be the final decision to which the government has no reason to return.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u27	Thank you. Now, to the microphone of Mr Zahradník, I ask that he present his interpelation to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the matter of natural theatre with a rotating auditorium in the garden of the state castle Český Krumlov. I have been following the problem of a rotating auditorium in Krumlov for more than 50 years, whether as a viewer or as a regional politician. I have always been and continue to be a grateful supporter of this unique cultural phenomenon. I am therefore very concerned that the fragile consensus that has been reached in recent years and that the construction of a new turntable in the castle garden is currently being disrupted by the amplifying campaign against this intention. People who have no mandate to represent the Czech Republic are being moved to the UNESCO World Heritage Center in Paris by the old-fashioned half-truths. The last act of this kind was a programme of public Czech Television Reporters ČT, according to which there are only people in our country who demand the removal of a rotating auditorium from the castle garden, which is not true. I ask you, Prime Minister, what is your government's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u29	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u30	Thank you. Dear Member, I don't think I'm going to surprise you with the information that the Minister of Culture Herman is involved in this case. So it is not a matter that falls directly under the authority of the Prime Minister, but Minister Herman is devoted to it. You will also not be surprised to note that Minister Herman is not the first Minister of Culture to address this issue. That means it's a case that's been going on for years. As for the up-to-date information on what is happening at this time, in August last year, a monitoring mission by the Intergovernmental Committee on World Heritage was invited to the Czech Republic to discuss further progress on the location of a rotating auditorium in the castle garden of Český Krumlov. Last November, the Czech Republic received a detailed report from this monitoring mission, which contained a number of specific recommendations on how to proceed, including recommendations relating to the publication of an architectural competition on the new rotating auditorium. [[15.10 hours]] At the beginning of 2015, the preparation of a two-year competition for the form of a new demountable revolving auditorium began. In accordance with the recommendations of the monitoring mission and in cooperation with the Czech Chamber of Architects, the conditions of the competition were completed, its provisional timetable as well as the draft composition of the evaluation committee of this architectural competition. At the same time, the possibility of a territorial study was examined for the location of the theatre facilities outside the castle garden territory and discussed the possibility of other than the current location of the revolving auditorium outside the main axis of the castle garden. Further, there has been a shift in the question of the restoration of the castle garden and the Bellaria Castle. In accordance with the recommendation of the monitoring mission, the National Monument Institute prepared a plan for the rehabilitation of the castle garden. The plan is called the updated framework timetable for pre-project and project preparation and realization of the historical garden renewal, including the Bellaria Castle, which plans to start the entire garden renewal at the turn of 2015 and 2016. The implementation of the steps I have mentioned should guarantee solutions that combine both the requirements of conservation care and the requirements of a strong part of the public for the continuation of the theatre tradition associated with a rotating auditorium in the castle garden of Český Krumlov. Due to the time and organizational complexity of the outlined procedure, the current turntable will be left at the current location for the time necessary for publication and evaluation of the architectural competition and for the subsequent implementation of the new demountable turntable. So much up-to-date information I have obtained from the Ministry of Culture, and I want to assure you that the government has a strong interest in solving this problem in a way that will allow the theatre tradition to be maintained in Český Krumlov, which is very strongly connected with the local park near the castle.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr zahradník wants to ask an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u32	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your position on this matter. I would also like to ask you an additional question: What is your opinion on the possibility to appoint a special agent of the Czech Government for communication with the UNESCO World Heritage Centre in Paris, who would clearly and clearly interpret the position of the Czech Republic in this matter?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u33	Please, Prime Minister, your room for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u34	I just want to stress that the Intergovernmental Committee on World Heritage, which I mentioned and which has therefore undergone a monitoring mission, has long held that the current construction of a rotating auditorium, as it is located there today, threatens the exceptional world value of the castle garden, so that the committee has a long-term critical position and an opinion on the location of the turntable in the castle garden. At the same time, he insists that the castle garden be revitalized. I think that there could be some progress and some agreement with the monitoring committee right here, which means that we are really going to be able to, hopefully, ensure the means for the project to be prepared and subsequently realized by the revitalization of the garden, and that, at the same time, should be dealt with by the architectural competition, event. building a new turntable that would be demountable and portable. So this is the path we could take. Dear Member, I am not a supporter of the appointment of government agents in the long run, so I am trying to, and I suspect that our government has not named any new government agent, only one government agent for the Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian region has taken over from the government of the past, but I think that the appointment of government agents is rather sharpening the responsibility of members of the government and individual authorities. So I'm more in favour of the people who have the responsibility to carry it, i.e. the competent Minister of Culture and his subordinates at the Ministry of Culture, the head of the National Heritage Institute, the competent Deputy in charge of this area at the Ministry, and I am not a fan of the appointment of special government agents. I think that this role can be played by one of the Ministry of Culture's staff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u35	I thank you, and now I ask Mr Seďa's microphone to present his interpellation to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u36	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr President of the Government, I support the government in its efforts to improve communication within the tripartite framework and in dialogue with regional representatives, because I believe that this country needs an imaginary end to the rope. According to publicly available information, the regions lack hundreds of millions of CZK to finance social services, there are problems in financing the roads of the second and third classes, and due to current problems in tax collection, not only the regions, but also the municipalities and cities are concerned about the loss of revenue from the budgetary determination of taxes. Dear Prime Minister, how is cooperation and communication with the regions set up? Specifically, how will the government help to address these problems, especially in the areas that I have mentioned? And wouldn't it be appropriate for the Ministry of Finance to prepare an amendment to the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u37	I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u38	Thank you. Dear Member, I want to confirm that the government is trying to hold a debate with the regions so that we can have a dialogue with the regions. We don't always naturally agree on everything. What limits us is, for example. the question of the stability of public budgets. However, I would like to remind you that we have met five times since the beginning of the parliamentary term with the governor at a joint meeting at the level of the entire government, i.e. We hold the government's format plus the governor of all regions, including the mayor of the capital city of Prague. There were five negotiations, the last one just a few days ago, following the preparation of the State Budget Act. We try to understand the comments of the regions, we try to respond to the problems that the regions give us. I would like to mention a few concrete examples of this cooperation, which already has concrete results for citizens as well. The first thing concerns the roads of the second and third categories. I am very pleased that we have managed to make a decision that the previous governments did not have the courage to admit that the government is not always able to drain all the money from the transport fund on the construction of motorways of express roads, but that the regions have a number of prepared projects in the reservoir. We admitted it and prepared a subsidy programme and the Ministry of Transport granted the regions a subsidy of CZK 4.5 billion from funds which would otherwise not be exhausted under the State Transport Fund. This is the first time the government has granted such a specific subsidy to all regions, and this money will help really this year to reconstruct the second and third category roads to repair bridges to simply remove the defects on these roads. I think that on those roads, on the twos and the threes, you'll see this powerful financial injection. Of course, we deal with the regions if possible and if possible with the transport fund's budget, so that we don't forget the 2s and 3s even next year. The second specific theme of cooperation concerns the financing of social services. We've done a major reform. As of 1 January this year, social services in individual regions are no longer financed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but the subsidy providers are only regions, which means that the regions are responsible for the network of social services providers and at the same time they pay the funds they receive in the form of subsidies from the state budget. When preparing the budget for this year, we managed to provide less than CZK 8 billion for the financing of social services. As many European projects ended this year, the regions signalled the need to finance social services in the regions. Just very briefly what services are involved. They are mainly homes for seniors, homes for disabled people, homes with special destination, but also asylum houses, halfway houses, low-ground centres for children and young people, but they are also social counseling services and a whole other range of social services. [[15.20 hours]] I am very pleased that at its meeting yesterday, the government found CZK 720 million in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which will be provided to the regions to increase the costs associated with social services. I see this as an important decision, because, therefore, it will not be necessary to reduce the supply of social services in the regions, it will not be necessary to release the people who work in these social services, it will be possible to deal with the impact of the end of a number of European projects and at the same time it will give us time to prepare a budget for next year and for social services. My final point concerns the budget allocation for the regions. In this House, an amendment is being discussed, which should return some 3.5 billion crowns to the regions, which the regions have lost in the past as part of austerity measures. I firmly believe that this amendment will be approved as soon as possible. In the government coalition, we discussed whether the amendment should be or should not be approved in the form that the government presented. We have dealt with the regions, the regions have expressed a clear view that they insist that this amendment be effective from 1 January next year, and the government coalition will respect this view of the regions. That means, we're counting on this amendment to be approved here in the form that the government has put forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u39	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u40	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your specific answers. You mentioned the amendment to the Act, which actually returns money to the regions as part of the change in the budgetary determination of taxes, but the decline, if it comes from the budgetary determination of taxes, also applies to municipalities and cities. And I know that this would need a more systematic solution, and not by making amendments to the laws by individual Members. I would like to ask if, even in the future, you are considering amending the entire law on the budgetary determination of taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u41	I'll ask the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u42	Thank you. Dear Member, I agree that it is not good for the budgetary determination of taxes to be amended on the basis of individual parliamentary proposals, because each of us may feel that small, medium or larger or large cities need additional funds, and, of course, to strengthen the city's budget directly by reducing the revenue of the state budget and moving it to the municipalities, is a very simple operation, and has very serious consequences, because here we will only create an even bigger problem in the state budget. I think it is not possible to solve the problems of financing certain cities and municipalities by moving the problem to the state budget and issuing more government bonds to solve the problem. So this isn't the way we should go. The government has submitted a change to the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions. The counties lost about 3.5 billion crowns. This money should be returned to the regions. The budgetary allocation of municipalities has changed over the past few years. In particular, the financing of small municipalities in relation to the budgetary determination of taxes has been strengthened, or there has been a significant increase in the incomes of small municipalities to some of the larger cities and to the state budget, and our government is not currently counting on making proposals for changes to the budgetary determination of taxes. We want to focus on the part of public budgets that has the biggest problems, that's the state budget. But even since taxes are shared, if we manage to improve tax collection by implementing measures against tax evasion, this will also strengthen the incomes of municipalities. As regards this year's development of municipal tax revenues, we recently discussed the government's analysis of the tax revenues of cities and municipalities. The conclusion of this analysis prepared by the Ministry of Finance assumes that the tax revenues of cities and municipalities should be fulfilled by the end of this year at the originally budgeted level. So it is expected that the failure, especially with regard to value added tax, which occurred in the first months of this year, should be gradually offset by a larger tax collection in the following months of 2015.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u43	Thank you. Now, to Mr Ondráček's microphone, I ask him to give his interpellation to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, this morning we heard from the Secretary of Defense and other speakers about how important it is to make military charges before the attack of our state itself and to have active military advances that could be immediately called upon in the event of a war attack on our state. So we are talking about the need to defend ourselves, but it is not clear to me against whom. Much more up-to-date is security, internal security, that is, those tasks that the Police of the Czech Republic is primarily intended to perform. We all know that a horde of illegal migrants is rushing towards us, and the question is a few days, at most weeks, when it will be a problem, a major problem. The Home Secretary is still trying to calm down that the police will carry out their duties and, if necessary, call on an army or members of other security forces. Either he doesn't know what personnel states are in the army and other congregations, or he's just trying to calm the public down. The police president himself admits that police officers are few and that he would not be able to complete all the tasks. Yes, it would be worth admitting publicly that the reorganisation - I repair, the liquidation of the border police from the Bílek-John workshop was a mistake and that the foreign police could not do it alone. Not to mention that we are still sending police officers to serve in Hungary. I ask you, Prime Minister, how will you ensure that internal security does not deteriorate? Wouldn't it be appropriate, in particular, for the police to think about setting up active advances to which former police officers could volunteer? They have been trained, trained, and would certainly be more beneficial to the task of the police than soldiers to perform other tasks. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u45	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u46	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the area of migration is worrying from the point of view of Europe. In the Czech Republic, I think the government is fully in control of the security situation. If you look at our streets, if you look at the situation at the Czech border, we have the security situation under control. The government has taken appropriate security measures in time, we have strengthened the performance of the police in the field, we have strengthened the deployment of foreign police. At this point, we are carrying out seizures of illegal migrants who are trespassing on the territory of the Czech Republic, and we are following the relevant legislation. This means either these people apply for asylum in the territory of the Czech Republic and there is an asylum procedure, or if we find that they have entered the territory of the European Union in another country or even asylum proceedings with them are under way, so we return them to the country of origin, so that we return them across the border. So the security situation in the Czech Republic is under our control, and I want to assure the citizens that the government will do everything possible to keep it that way. But, of course, we can't just deal with this isolatedly here in the Czech Republic. The whole of Europe has a problem. The problem is that the security environment in the area has deteriorated by what has happened in North Africa, by what is happening in the Middle East, and it is absolutely necessary for Europe to take effective action. I want to assure you that even today, when the European Union Interior Ministers meet in the afternoon and discuss the current situation in the area of migration, it will be the Czech Interior Minister who will again demand that the following measures be taken: 1. to improve the protection of the southern Schengen border; 2. to comply with the rules associated with the registration of migrants crossing those borders; 3. to speed up the preparation of a security operation which should be implemented in the Mediterranean Sea and which should complicate the transfer of people from Africa to Europe; 4. to open negotiations with the North African States on the location of permanent facilities in which people wishing to enter Europe and where asylum procedures outside the borders of the European Union would take place. Here, we need to deal with all the states in North Africa. If the security situation in Libya today does not allow the construction of such facilities, it is necessary to deal with Tunisia, it is necessary to deal with Egypt. And Europe needs a return policy. [[15.30 hours]] When Spain managed to resolve the migration crisis a few years ago, this was due to the fact that the Španěl had concluded specific contracts with countries to which they returned economic migrants who had not received asylum in Spain. Europe does not have such a return policy working today. So we have to have a functional return policy. Finally, there is a need to fight gangs, organized crime, which now operates in Italy, which now operates in the Balkans and, of course, makes huge money smuggling people from Turkey to Greece, Turkey to Bulgaria, through the Balkan countries, Libya to Italy and so on. So break these criminal structures. These are the things that the Czech Republic emphasizes, and these are the things that Minister chovanec will be demanding to discuss with the ministers of the interior of the European Union this afternoon. Capacities. You mentioned the question of capacity in your interpellation. I think it's important not only that there's a question of military capacity, that I can get to, but it's a question of police capacity. The Ministry of the Interior is preparing a plan to strengthen the capacities of the Police of the Czech Republic, including the foreign police. Our goal is to increase the number of police officers by about 4,000 in a few years. We'd like to start recruiting next year. Likewise, by several thousand we want to increase the filling of the tables of the Army of the Czech Republic. It is evident that, in case an army needs to be deployed, for example, in order to protect internal order, the army does not have a full state of affairs at the moment. And we felt it very strongly when we were discussing the issue of security of the premises in Vrbětice after the explosions that occurred there, where we concentrated the relatively significant capacity of the Army of the Czech Republic in order to shut down the space. Adding to the soldiers we have on missions, the available capacity of the Czech army is very small. Clearly, then, we must strengthen our states. And when I recently saw an analysis of the number of units of the Army of the Czech Republic, it was a very sad reading. Thus, we do not need to increase the numbers of soldiers, but we need to fill the states in the Army of the Czech Republic and we also need to increase the number of police officers in order to respond to the security risks that are unfortunately increasing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u47	Thank you. I will ask the Member for a microphone because he wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u48	Prime Minister, I am not such an optimist, and I do not think it will take several years, because of course we are talking about increasing the number of Czech Police officers by about 4,000 you mention. But you originally considered it would be a thousand every year. Now you know you don't have the money, so it's gonna be eight hundred and spread out in five years. It may not last five months. But somewhere else. In the end, I asked you if it would be appropriate to think about setting up active backups with the police, where ex-cops might be. Firefighters have their auxiliary SDH. The army has its backups. If there could be such a thing in the police of former police or security forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u49	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u50	Thank you. Dear Member, I'm a bit of an interior minister here. And so I can assure you that so far, the Home Secretary hasn't told me anything about it, that he's planning something like this. So I don't have any information about it that something like this is being prepared. What we think is important is that we strengthen the capacity of professional police officers who will be in the service, and we will be able to cover areas where we see serious problems and serious gaps today. I just want to remind you what was found after Vrbětice. In the past, it was found that cuts were made in the part of the police that dealt with ammunition, handling explosives and ammunition and, as a result, the control activities of the Police of the Czech Republic were weakened. So we also need to increase capacity there. It is obvious that we will need to increase the capacity of the foreign police in the fight against organised crime. So there are a number of areas that the police have specified very precisely, and we see the possibility of a gradual increase, of course. This will be spread over several years. First, we have to allocate funding gradually, and we can't do that from year to year. And, of course, it is necessary to get police officers to train them so that they can operate within the police force. So the direction of reasoning that you suggested, as far as I know, it's not guided yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u51	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Beznoska to give his interpellation to the Prime Minister. [[The MP's waiting.]] Please, you have the floor. [[The Prime Minister is speaking to Mr Schwarz outside the bench.]] I'll ask my colleagues not to disturb the Prime Minister so that he can hear the interview that will be lectured on him in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u52	Thank you, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, Greece for the second time today. My colleague Jana Fischerová asked you what opinions you will be taking on Sunday at the summit of the European Union on Greece. And I'm going to ask you again, because you're in the answer, virtually. in the sentences that followed my colleague's inquiry, he did not answer. So are you more of a supporter of keeping Greece in the euro area or leaving the euro area? In an up-to-date situation where you have up-to-date information. And I'm gonna follow up on that fluently. You said here that the Greek crisis started sometime in 2009, 2010. She started sometime in the '80s when the Řek started this famous party, and at the end of the day, the top guy comes and asks who's gonna pay for it. Especially in the 1980s and 1990s, Andreas Papandre's left government spent incredible money. So, in light of these circumstances, I am just reminding you that we, too, expect relatively robust economic growth of around 4%, and yet we will create a deficit of about another 70 billion. in the state budget. So let me ask you, question number two, do you still think it's wise for us to do this, and your administration is messing with it, taking steps towards the eurozone? And if it wasn't really better to maintain your own sovereign monetary policy. Because maybe even the Řek, as you said, in 2009, if they had the opportunity to start working with their currency and do their own monetary policy, maybe today the situation wouldn't be so critical. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u53	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u54	Thank you. Dear Member, I think it was a little late in 2009, 2010 for that consideration. I think that this was missing when Greece entered the euro area, I think, sometime around 2000 or 2001. At that time, Greece was accepted into the euro area, so it committed itself to sharing sovereignty and to respecting the rules that are in the euro area. In 2009, 2010 not that the crisis caused Greece's problems. I chose a different term here when I was performing for the previous interpellation. I said here that the crisis exposed Greece's problems. She just exposed them, showed them clearly. And then came Greek officials, who began to confess and began to say that they had falsified the data provided to the European Commission. And I remember well how the European Commission tried to regulate national management before the financial crisis came, and how permanent it was to circumvent these rules. And how the effort was to negotiate political exceptions. The eurozone just worked less strictly before the crisis and before Greece and before Italy, Spain, Portugal than it should be now. Clearly, if you create a monetary zone, you also need an economic zone. You need to coordinate budgetary and economic policies more than it did before the financial crisis. That is why today Europe is heading towards economic and monetary union, and the euro area is trying to strengthen mutual ties and coordinate more strictly budgetary and economic policy. What is happening today in Greece is not primarily a eurozone problem, but it is indeed a Greek public budget problem. If you look at the currency zones in the world today, if you look at the different areas of economic growth, the euro area as such is not in a completely bad situation. He's not in very bad shape. The euro area is experiencing economic growth and is experiencing stability. Greece is a very small part of the euro area economy itself. It is not the euro's problem, it is not the euro area's problem. It is a problem that Greece was not prepared to join the euro area, apparently it was not supposed to enter there. And when they entered, when they were not in good shape and in public budgets, they had to respond with internal devaluation, salary cuts, pension cuts, and this created the tensions that we are watching today in Greek society. That's the problem. So the problem is not the idea of the euro, the problem is that Greece did not meet the real conditions to bear the weight of membership in the common European currency. [[15.40 hours]] What's the next move? I think that the European solidarity that has been shown here over the last five years towards Greece has its limits. It has its limits, and those limits are democratic. They are just as democratic as the Greek referendum. The individual parliaments or nations of the Member States that have lent loans to Greece over the past five years have the right to say no, just as the Greek citizens who have said no to the conditions of the rescue programme have had the right to say no, and the rescue programme has ended. Citizens in other countries, their representatives in parliament, and their governments also have the right to say no in a situation where they do not agree to the Greek Government's procedure. Now, however, we are not in a situation where the euro area would no longer be able to hear it. We are at the negotiating stage between the Greek Government and the other euro area countries on the terms of the loan requested by Greece. This is a paradox, because, on the one hand, the Greek Government rejected the conditions under the so-called second package that Greece was holding over the water, helped stabilise its public budgets, and, at the same time, shortly thereafter, the Greek Government requested a new loan to help finance Greece's commitments over a period of about three years. So now these are the terms of this loan. So either there will be an agreement, a loan will be granted or there will be no agreement. If there is no agreement, then there is a real alternative to Greece's gradual departure from the euro area, given that Greece will have to move to its own currency and will have to address its budgetary and economic situation using its own Greek currency. That's alternative two, so far it's alternative one. If there is an agreement, we will know more about it today, tomorrow, when Greece presents a specific reform programme that it will want to implement. Again, I stress that Europe's solidarity has been working towards Greece for five years, but solidarity also has its clear economic, political and democratic limits, and at the moment it is necessary for euro area countries to assess the situation and to decide whether it is important for solidarity to continue with Greece and whether Greece is even ready to implement reforms to stabilise the Greek economy and the Greek public budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u55	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u56	Thank you, Prime Minister. I understand you very well in this. I was more concerned about what the position was. I understand that only on the basis of what comes out of the negotiations between Greece, the strengthening of French experts newly and so on, what comes out of this proposal, then the Czech Republic will definitely establish its position with which you will go to Brussels on Sunday at the meeting. Do I understand that, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u57	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u58	We are not part of the euro area as the Czech Republic. We do not take part in these negotiations, but naturally we will be informed by the euro area Member States of their views on the Greek reform programme, which is being finalised at the moment. At least I'm based on the information available. The Czech Republic will not participate in this decision in the first phase. We have a meeting of the European Council as a whole on Sunday, and the question is what the European Council will decide on Sunday. Either we are informed that there has been an agreement, then I assume that we will take note of such an agreement, an agreement between Greece and the euro area, or we will be informed that there has been no agreement, and the European Council will politically express it. That means he's going to say his point of view in this situation. Even if there is no agreement, Greece remains part of the European Union, remains part of the North Atlantic Alliance and the Greek problem does not disappear from Europe. Even if Greece fails to meet the conditions for remaining in the euro, the Greek problem does not disappear from Europe. We have a migration problem here. Greece will undoubtedly need humanitarian aid in case the conditions for continued residence in the euro area cannot be met at this time. Greece remains part of the North Atlantic Alliance. This means that we must have an interest in maintaining political dialogue with Greece within the European Union as well as within the North Atlantic Alliance, in order to better face the pressures associated with the migration crisis, with the deterioration of the security situation in the Middle East. In any case, communication with Greece must be maintained, and this will be one of the positions that I will take at the European Council meeting. Looking at this problem not only through the eyes of the negotiations between the euro area and Greece on the conditions of the new rescue programme or new loans for Greece, but also through the optics of real Greece, a real problem that Europe has today with the situation as it is in Greece, and will have it regardless of whether it will be paid by the euro or not. None of the roads will be easy for Greek society. Both of these potential paths will mean great costs and will undoubtedly still mean a number of social problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u59	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Adamec to give his interpellation to the Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I've tried to succeed the last time with my input on tax collection. I understand that I should rather ask the Minister of Finance Babiš, but given how there is a debate on tax collection during the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, when we choose more, better, happier and reality is a little different, and if anyone asks, then I will ask you. I think that the relation between economic growth and tax collection should more or less apply if the parameters remain the same in terms of tax collection. It doesn't manifest itself in any way. I took my budget out of my city and looked at the tax returns. By the way, we only achieved last year, I would say, the amount of the selection, which is almost the same as in 2008. And it's 2015, last year's 2014. And it helped us there that the parameters were actually adjusted at the expense of the four highest cities. That's what I counted. But this year looks very strange. I understand that there could have been vomit, that there could have been some pre-supply from the point of view of certain taxes, but excise duty is not exactly the tax income of cities and municipalities. When I look at what it looks like, January dropped minus 5 million, February minus 12, March minus 11, minus 9, minus 8, minus 3 in June. Of course, the trend looks very good, but we have almost 4% growth, which means it should look completely different. So I'm asking where the mistake went. Because if I say the rule is that if the parameters of tax collection are set in the same way and there is economic growth, where is the increase in taxes in urban and municipal budgets? I don't see it. When there is a higher choice, as the Minister of Finance says, there must be a higher share, because of course it is a mathematical dimension. And I think that's how it should be. And I'm asking you because I'll probably never get an answer from Minister Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u61	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u62	Dear Member, of course this matter has already been discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't think I'm gonna surprise you too much with what I'm gonna say here, 'cause it's the stuff that's been talked about. I also asked the Minister of Finance to submit an analysis of tax collection to the government in the first months of this year on the basis of complaints received from representatives of municipalities and cities, among other things at the meeting of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, among other things at the meeting with the Association of Regions. The government got an analysis for information. The analysis shows the conclusion of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance assumes that tax evasion, especially with regard to value added tax, will be compensated by the end of this year. This is the official position held by the Ministry of Finance on this issue. The trend in the collection of value added tax suggests this, i.e. following the biggest downturns that occurred in January, February and March, is improving the collection of value added tax. The first thing that is and concerns value added tax. I think that this is simply a methodological error of the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance was unable to properly analyse and interpret the collection of value added tax in 2014. The VAT collection was higher, it was significantly higher, but the Ministry of Finance was unable to analyse it as a result of the retention of value added tax returns, which were first withheld and then returned. This means that those detainees were not identified as unlawful and, of the vast majority, were, and rightly, returned by the tax office. [[15.50 hours]] Unfortunately, in 2014, the Ministry of Finance interpreted this as an improvement in VAT collection. They probably also assumed that this was related to economic growth in a given year, but information on the fact that the VAT returns were withheld did not reach that part of the Ministry of Finance which analyses the budget and which makes recommendations for the expected tax revenues of public budgets at lower levels. The first major problem, i.e. a methodological error in 2014, which reflected in unrealistic expectations of VAT collection in 2015 and, of course, was compared incomparable figures in terms of the first three months of VAT collection 2014/2015. Just 2014 there were detainees, 2015 were no longer there detainees and it is a pure VAT collection that is related to the real development of the economy. That's the first big disproportion. If I go back to VAT, it's really impossible to ignore. We've reduced the VAT. We've reduced the VAT on drugs, on books. Those are the two largest items. And then there were some smaller ones, but for drugs and books we reduced VAT from 15 to 10 percent. This also brings a lower VAT collection. And the last point concerns income tax on dependent activities. Here, I think it will require an even more accurate analysis by the Treasury. As I am informed, the selection of social and health insurance copies estimates and copies the economic growth that we are seeing so far this year. So there is no problem with the choice of social and health insurance. Of course, this also has to do with the fact that there has been a certain increase, including the increase in the wages of public sector employees. As regards the tax on dependent activities, the choice is not what it was expected to be. It's mine. as a result of the application of certain new tax discounts. I want to remind you that we've increased the tax discount on the baby. That means new tax discounts have been applied here. Tax discounts for working pensioners are still being applied. That means it was temporarily cancelled, it was renewed last year, which means it reduces the collection of income tax. So the increase in the discount on the second and the other child, the tax discount on the working pensioners and the third amendment, again the new item that applies, and that is called. Kindergarten, that is, the possibility to apply up to a certain amount the costs associated with the child's attendance in kindergarten. So these are three new items that reduce the collection of income tax, and the Ministry of Finance should analyse and analyse more precisely the impact of this tax reduction on tax collection, because they are effectively the effects of a reduction in tax liability as a result of an increase or reintroduce of tax discounts or new deductible items. These are, I think, factors that affect tax collection this year. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Your time, Prime Minister!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u63	The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, not so much as a supplementary question as a statement. I'd take the vomit if the fall wasn't nearly the same four months - February, March, April, May. If I take it on the scale of my city, it's actually numbers 12, 11, 9, 8. Now it's trending down and actually the yield for June can be compared to the yield for June two years ago, which means 2013. I understand that. This means that the refunds had to be quite large amounts, it has to be said, and I really admit that I care mainly about VAT at this time, because it is a substantial income of the municipality or the city. And the question, of course, is how it's going to go on, because I think we'd still go through this slump, which I think is big enough in four months, that we should get into positive numbers with respect to 2014 in 2015. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but even your time...]] Do you think so, too?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u65	I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u66	Thank you. Dear Member, it was several billion crowns when it comes to detained returns. That means, it really was a substantial amount. I don't want to give the exact amount, because I don't have it here, but I think the Ministry of Finance is able to refine it, but it was a few billion crowns that were detained in the framework of tax administration actions in 2013 and not yet paid in early 2014 and then gradually released, and it seems that in the first three months of 2014 they were still in principle detained, that is, in particular, January, February and in part, March 2014, and raised the base and it seemed to be a great VAT collection, but in fact the money had to be returned. So that's the main tooth that came from the point of view of VAT collection. And once again, let us not underestimate the lower collection, which concerns items where we have reduced taxes, where we have reduced VAT. That's what I think needs to be thought of. But the only thing I can say is that I'm sure the government will continue to deal with it. This means, as we had an analysis of the selection in the first five months at the government meeting, so I'm going to want us to have another analysis afterwards, and see if the Ministry of Finance insists on its original forecast that this year will be able to collect taxes according to plan by the end of this year. So I'm going to want the Treasury to re-submit the analysis in the next few months, and I'm assuming it's public material, so it'll be available and it'll be possible to look into it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u67	Thank you and please - we will not be able to make it, Mrs Němcová, I am sorry. Last four minutes. There's no time to load another interpellation. I'm gonna use this moment to load up my apologies. From today's meeting, Mr Fiedler and Mr Vojtěch apologize for working reasons, Mrs Nováková, from 12.30 to 13.00 Adam apologizes from 16 a.m. to the end of negotiations for health reasons today and tomorrow from 12 a.m. also for health reasons. We have four minutes until 4:00. I am therefore interrupting negotiations within 16 hours, when we will continue with further written interpelations on other members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The next item is oral questioning, which is addressed to other members of the government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the rankings of the Members in which they will perform and perform oral interviews, and now it is from 16 to 18 hours to the members of the government. The list of Members according to the winning order has been distributed to you in the benches. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who intersects Minister Lubomír Zaorálek in the issue of the arming of the Islamic State, will now be the first to get the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I think who watches the rampage of the Islamic radicals brought together in the so-called. The Islamic State cannot fail to notice that they are armed with modern American weapons, with the exception of handguns, which have already been shown not to be very reliable in previous conflicts. They are also quite well trained, using modern technology in the fight. Every judgmental person knows that every war is economically very demanding. Yet, their supply of new weapons and ammunition and other sources of funding will not dry out. And here is a simple question: How so? Can you answer the question of what was, or even the role of the United States of America in the creation of the Islamic State, the training of its members, its financing and arms supply? And if I may ask, please don't describe to me three or four minutes what the Islamic State is, how cruel it is and how to fight it, so go straight to the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u71	Thank you. Well, first of all, how cruel is the Islamic State. [[with laughter]] The question was what are the financial sources of functioning so called. Islamic State. The three resources and three parts of the funding of the Islamic State are quite well known. It's oil, the sale of captives, mostly women who get captured and then sell them, and then antique monuments from the places they ambushed, so they got to a relatively large number of monuments, which are then sold in antiquities in Dubai, Beirut and a number of Arab sites. That's what certain networks have been created for, how they're getting it there. So it was basically three basic sources of income for a long time. Even today, in the case of oil, they are able to benefit roughly 50,000 barrels of oil a day, which they sell to private dealers for about $25, $35 a barrel. That would mean an income of 1.5 million U.S. dollars a day from mining. It is true that mining has fallen due to the raids and the air attacks of the Alliance, the United States, so they have managed to cause considerable losses in oil mining. However, it seems that to a large extent it is able to compensate the Islamic State, especially by generating a large part of its income directly with the Islamic State controlled territory, by actually depending on the contributions from the supporters who live there. He controls the territory on which there is quite such a small trade, and the collection of actually in quotes of some kind of tax has become a regular way of operating the Islamic State. The level of tax collection is now assessed at a surprisingly decent level, comparable, say, with some other Arab states. We cannot compare it with Europe. So they've created their own tax collection system, and it's a pretty decent base today. That doesn't mean they're doing anything special. The information I've read from the last few years seems to have quite a lot of economic difficulties despite all the resources I've listed. It's not like the whole operation is going so-called. The Islamic State is well funded. It's just that at the moment it's quite difficult and there are big problems to keep funding going. As far as weapons are concerned, it is quite well known that they have managed to get quite high-quality weapons, especially in connection with the conquest of barracks in Mosul. There they got to very quite quite modern American weapons, which were originally provided by the United States to the Iraqi army, and precisely because they managed to conquer several habitats, the most important of which are the barracks in Mosul, so they got to quite a very modern technique supplied by the United States of America. I myself witnessed the Kurdish officials, the Prime Minister of Kurdish, who actually visited the United States and the Pentagon and asked the Američan for help because they explained to them that in the conflict with the Islamic State units, they were colliding with a technology far better than they have, and thus curiously with the technology supplied by the United States. And, of course, the Američan faced a very difficult situation, that suddenly they were supposed to deliver the Kurd weapons to have equipment comparable to that, because they themselves had delivered it to the Iraqi army before, which was not an easy decision for the Američan, because they had to have a little sense of absurdity. That's for sure. And it took about three or four weeks for them to get some shipments because it wasn't an easy decision. So it's true from what you're asking in your question that it's actually that way to say that so-called. The Islamic State got to the weapons originally provided by the Američan, but they were just provided to the Iraqi army. And as for some of the other weapons they got, of course, they were also able to get them because of the funds they got in the first part. They certainly had considerable resources from the sale of oil. This was certainly a significant source of income at the level of billions, from which they were also able to replenish their modern equipment. But despite all this, as I described here, they have more sources of funding quite significant, it's an absolutely incomparable situation with Al-Qaeda. Al-Qaeda against so-called The Islamic State was a much poorer, far less equipped relative, just -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u72	Minister, I'm sorry, your response time is up. If there's a follow-up question, you'll still have room to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u73	Three sources of funding - I don't know how much women in the Islamic state are selling, but I don't think they're worth much. I think he might buy a few bullets for a woman he's using for a Kalashnikov. As far as the sights are concerned, they may be destroying them rather than selling them. So it's probably not a crucial source of funding. And oil as such - I would expect the United States and, if so, the Alliance to do everything they can to prevent them from selling the oil you talked about to private individuals. If necessary, do everything to prevent those privates from selling the oil further, and thus, of course, finance the Islamic State. It's about sources of money. But let me ask again: What is your awareness that the emergence of the Islamic State was somehow financed and trained by the United States?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is about to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u75	Well, don't downplay it, Mr. Ambassador. It's a little different. The resources are far more important than you think. That's not selling one woman. When I visited Erbil, the Kurdish Prime Minister told me: Today we bought 200 women. Do you understand? And I'm not gonna tell you the amount he bought them for. Don't think - when I said that women are being sold here, it's something unheard of, medieval, absolutely disgusting, but you can't imagine the extent of this trade at all. The way prisoners are sold, the business they've made up of it, it's probably beyond any of your ability to imagine it. And those resources were really crucial. When I said it was three major sources - oil, the sale of captives, especially women, and then antiquities - I assure you that the resources were so massive that until then, no one seemed to think that a criminal group was capable of such a kind of billions of dollars. [[unintelligible]] To this point, unfortunately, I have to tell you that trafficking in, for example, people, women, has so much scope in that area that someone in this country, I think, cannot imagine without initiation at all. Let's not underestimate these things here. These aren't just my scandalous statements. I answer absolutely seriously to you that these were essential resources and are still essential resources. And, as I said, today is about the fees. As far as your question is concerned, interrupting terrorist financial flows was one of the basic topics of the G7 countries now in Bavaria. There it was set as one of the essential tasks that the G7 countries are taking. I even think that the task is quite successful with certain limits. This is really causing big problems for the so-called Islamic State that we are able to eliminate much of the income. Therefore, they must now rely on the collection of their own taxes and charges in that area. I see I can't make it, the subject is big, next time I'll continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u76	Thank you, Minister. Before we go any further, I'll read two note cards. From now until 18:00, Mr Šarapatka apologizes for business reasons and today from 17:00 to the end of the day and tomorrow for health reasons, Mr Jaroslav Borka. Next, Mrs Markéta Adamová, who is intersecting the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, will speak. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u77	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, as of May of this year, the amendment to the Law on material distress, which was intended, among other things, to reduce the payment of housing benefits, if they go into the hands of dishonest hostel operators. Unfortunately, due to the section of the law, which included in the decision-making and self-government, many municipalities interpreted this sentence in the law as a possibility not to get rid of dubious residential hotels, but rather persons who are forced to live in them due to their situation, which is, of course, wrong. In my opinion, however, this could have been avoided. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should have clearly pointed out the risks arising from the misinterpretation of the provisions when approving the law, and the amendment could have already been modified to avoid such future mistakes. The Ministry certainly has a sufficient apparatus, but it did not. It was then able to issue a methodology for municipalities how to dispose of the law before the law was effective. It didn't do that again. Now thousands of people are threatening to end up on the street. So I'm going to ask you what you're going to do to make sure it doesn't happen. I will anticipate your answer, but please do not try to link this matter with the Social Housing Act, which has not yet been established and the concept has not even been discussed by the government. This is the music of the future so far, and this problem is here today. Please also do not make excuses for municipalities. I'm interested in how you specifically handle this. Surely no one would want us to have thousands of new homeless people. I would also like to know how many cases worthy of special consideration, as stated in this law in Section 33 paragraph. 6, where the official may exceptionally grant entitlement to the housing supplement for the person residing in the hostel, was granted in 2014, in how many cases the maximum possible legal amount of the housing supplement was then granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u78	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask the secretary to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Members, first of all, perhaps we should remember a little how the legislative process works. The problematic amendment was tabled to this House at second reading, not discussed by committees, if you remember. And really, at the moment he was loaded here, he wasn't even with the entire apparatus of the entire Department of Labour and Social Affairs, which, of course, we have at our disposal, so it took place here in minutes, so the legislative position could not be made on this. When this proposal went to the Senate, yes, so the senator, now I don't know the name, one of the senators, proposed the amendment so that the problems that were known when it came to the Senate were clarified, however, by a total majority of votes over the entire political spectrum, the Senate approved the original version, as it was once again by the absolute majority of votes over the entire political spectrum here approved in the Chamber of Deputies. And, as is known, the real legislative process is somehow superior to any opinion of the ministries. As to whether or not people are in danger of being here on the street, there's no way that's going to happen right now, because as you all know, there's been an interpretation. The Ministry, which is somehow superior to the municipalities in quotation marks, or somehow methodically leads them, the Ministry of the Interior, issued one opinion in January where it said that the approval of the municipality is binding on the authorities of work, but then in June it actually issued a second opinion, when this approval of the municipality is recommended at this time. This means that the employment authorities pay the housing payments as they used to. There's no danger of homelessness. At the same time, however, we are discussing the amendment of this paragraph with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and I want to do it in cooperation with the mayors. This is now a process that actually runs over the summer and, of course, we want it to be a result as soon as possible. However, really, at this point in time, the payments are paid, and there is certainly no danger. And as for the numbers, because I didn't know it in advance, of course we have them at our disposal, I'll give them to you. However, how it is assessed that those persons, whether they really need to live or not, live in residential hotels - we have inherited a situation where the authorities of work to conduct social investigations are completely staffed undersized in some way. It was only during last year and this year that we supplemented the number of officials so that it would actually work the way it should. The positive effect is beginning to appear. I have the numbers at my disposal, and I can put them in writing. However, it will certainly be a while before we are really able to say - you do not have to reach the hostel, you will not reach etc. However, it is still very important that, as of 1 May, the amendment to the Act on material distress, in which an amendment has been tabled, where there are very limited both costs and the amount of one supplement, applies. It's based on the number of people in the room, it's per square metre, they're given certain standards, so we're expecting a drop in the supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u80	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There will be an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u81	Thank you for your answer. There I could point out that in the Senate you probably didn't impress the arguments enough, when it was even actually, you might say, in the Socialist Senate accepted, because there you have a clear majority. However, as far as the housing supplement is concerned, I wonder how the structure of the bill is actually developing, how the individual clients were affected. So I'm going to ask you if you can fill in the numbers for the current year, if there's even an amendment. I know it's been a short time. And I know, of course, that the Minister of the Interior had different interpretations about what actually changed during the course. I'd just say that I think it's actually a recommendation not to follow the law. What do you think? You think that's okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u82	I thank you for the supplementary question and ask the Minister to answer it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u83	Mr President, honourable Members, once again with regard to the impact of the amendment, this is actually true from 1 May, so I believe that this will not really be very significant at the moment. However, what has already been shown is an increase in the number of officials and officials in the employment offices, where it can be seen that payments have fallen overall. We have that at our disposal. As far as the question is concerned, I really don't think - why should I assume? - that the law is being broken. It's an interpretation of the Ministry of the Interior, which is binding. I suppose it's made by competent people, and I'm counting on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u84	Thank you. The third prize was drawn by Mr Zdeněk Soukup, who also interpels the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs - on the matter of the care allowance. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary Marksová, in 2007 the Social Services Act came into force, which introduced as a new contribution to care for handicapped people who cannot take care of themselves. It's not small money. In 2013, more than 330 000 beneficiaries paid a total of 20.4 billion. Crowns. The purpose of this benefit was to create a new tool for financing social services, which was to bring the patient a free choice in selecting a particular service. The benefits were to make a passive patient an active and sovereign client - so it stands in the justification of the original law. Unfortunately, dose abuse is likely to occur to a large extent. Exact data indicates that clients use only one third of the 20 billion to purchase social services, other funds go to so-called. informal care. Probably part of this serves to bail out family budgets. With the best will, it cannot be assumed that most families have professional and technical conditions to be able to take care of their handicapped in full and in good quality. There are discussions among experts about the purpose of the care allowance, about the possibility of putting it in part in the form of vouchers for qualified social services. Just to the edge, they need to keep the subsidies going every year, and it's constantly increasing. This year it is expected to reach 7.4 billion in total. CZK, and as we heard here a moment ago from the Prime Minister, there will be a further increase of about 760 miles. So the question to the Minister: You have spoken several times about the preparation of a major amendment to Act 108 on Social Services. Are you also counting on measures to prevent abuse of the care allowance? Or how do you plan to do that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u86	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask the Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u87	Mr President, Members, of course what has been said here is true, except that I would object to the notion that it is being massively abused. I would go back to why the Social Services Act was created and a care allowance was introduced. At the time, the idea was that a person should decide for a care allowance what kind of service he wanted, whether he wanted to stay at home or whether he wanted to buy services at the institute. That was the original idea. Yes, and it's true that over the years, the vast majority of the clients that are actually seniors, most of the time, use it to give the money to their loved ones and stay at home. However, it cannot be said that this whole amount of money that is being handed over to relatives is being abused. I think that's a bit of a strong word. But the fact that we are discussing how to at least determine a piece on some sort of voucher, simply impose an obligation that at least part of the contribution is actually used to buy social services, so the debates are here, and right now the amendment, the big amendment to the Social Services Act, is being discussed. We know about it, and there are some changes to it. We will certainly inform you about the details in the meeting of the Social Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u88	Thank you. I ask whether the Member will have an additional question. It's not, okay, thank you. I will now ask Mr Vladimír Koníček for his intervention on the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u89	Dear absent minister, according to the provisions of Section 5 para. 1 of Law No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, is a legal or natural person who carries out an economic activity separately, with emphasis on the continuity of this activity. The provision of professional expertise and other services may have the characteristics of economic activity in accordance with § 5 para. In addition, the Commission notes that the VAT Act does not apply to the VAT Act and that the VAT Act does not apply to the VAT Act in so far as it is carried out on a continuous basis. If that were the case, expert expertise is subject to tax. According to Section 2 and Section 4a of the Value Added Tax Act, the remuneration for these transactions is included in the turnover for compulsory registration. The taxable person becomes the payer on the basis of turnover of 1 million. CZK 12 immediately consecutive calendar months. This is a quote from the Financial Administration's reply to my question whether the invoice of CZK 4 090 654 for the expertise of Members does not give rise to an obligation to sign up for payment from added value. According to the annual financial report of YES 2011 for 2014, this activity was consistent and certainly exceeded the limit laid down by the Value Added Tax Act. I ask you, Minister, when will you start, as Minister of Finance, to enforce unpaid tax after the 2011 YES movement. [[Thank you.]] And I still have time. [[President: You have time to talk.]] So I can still ask or add that 14 days ago, I was at a meeting at the General Financial Directorate, and my feeling about this meeting is that the Financial Administration is looking for all sorts of loopholes why your party shouldn't pay instead of doing everything it takes to get the taxpayers to do their duty. No wonder, Minister, we are so limped in tax collection when the Financial Administration behaves in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u90	Thank you very much. You've filled the time. I shall now ask Mrs Anna Putnová to interpel with Minister Kateřina Valachová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u91	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I was going to withdraw my interview, but since the secretary came, I'm going to ask about the amendment to the Higher Education Act. The previous management of the Ministry of Education submitted an amendment to the Higher Education Act, which, in my view, does not fully meet the expectations of universities, which would provide a modern tool for the management of universities suitable for the 21st century. At the meeting of the school committee, we interrupted the discussion of this amendment because we wanted it to be submitted by the newly appointed Madam Secretary. So I ask you to what extent you identify yourself, Madam Secretary, with the draft that came from your predecessor's workshop.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u92	Thank you for your question, and the Minister is coming to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u93	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, let me answer. As regards the amendment to the Higher Education Act, the Government's proposal approved by the Government on 30 March 2015 and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, as Minister of Education of the Government will, of course, defend it, but I am aware that while, in the case of expert consultations with the representation of universities, many have been done in this regard and, after all, at the very end of the subcommittee of the Czech Rectors' Czech Conference, the Academy of Sciences and other university representations express support for the amendment, I am aware that there is still much to communicate in the event of political representation and in the event of fulfilling all the expectations associated with the amendment of the Higher Law. This is a partial amendment, which I confirm, the main objective of which is to improve the quality of education through a change in accreditation and the provisions of the National Accreditation Office for Higher Education with a higher degree of competence than it is now with the Accreditation Commission. That's her main objective. I will defend the amendment because I believe it is a step in the right direction, but I agree that this is one of the steps that should be followed by others, for example. reform of funding for higher education. [[16.30 hours]] From the point of view of the partial amendments that have been read from both coalition and opposition Members so far or which have been announced to me, I am prepared to discuss all and from a procedural point of view until the first half of September to prepare a proposal reflecting these amendments, which would be formed into one comprehensive amendment, so as to maintain the quality of the amendment that has been tabled by the government. I would, of course, be very pleased if this comprehensive amendment receives support not only for the coalition Members but also for the members of the opposition. At the same time, I have instructed that the regulations which constitute the core or the conclusion of the story of the amendment should be immediately, that is to say, a government regulation laying down standards for institutional accreditation, as well as a government regulation on the definition of areas of education, so that this is sent to Members and Members dealing with school issues so that they can comment on them by 20 August of this year. Of course, I will also reflect on these comments, and at the same time, honourable Members, I asked both coalition and opposition Members to be patient in the sense that we would not evaluate the final conclusion in terms of assessing this amendment, including how we managed to find political agreement across the political spectrum, until the first half of September of this year. Therefore, my efforts as Minister of Education continue to be made to ensure that the amendment submitted by the Government takes effect on 1 April 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u94	And I thank you for your answer and I ask whether the honourable Member is asking for an additional question. It's not like that, okay. I'm gonna load up another note that came to me. From 15.05 to 20.00 for work reasons today, Mrs Jana Lorencová apologises. Mr. Jiří Skalický has another interview, in the sixth order, and he is intersecting Minister Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u95	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, the subject of my interpelation concerns the providers of pharmaceutical care and conciliation on payment decree 2016. Before I ask my questions, some information and facts. To 1. 1. this year, drug care providers became carriers of performance, so-called signal code, facts about this situation are known. On 1. 4. However, the group of health care providers was not approved by other health care providers in order to participate in the conciliation procedure. It is a fact that, if one representative of health care providers is refused to participate, an agreement cannot arise, and therefore the value of the point and its amount is determined and determined by the Ministry of Health by the relevant decree. At the same time, I was brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court of February 2010, where the inequality of providers is described as inadmissible in the payment of health care. And the providers feel in an unequal position precisely for the reasons set out above. My two questions are: What is the opinion of the Ministry of Health on the situation? And secondly: How do you see, Minister, that the financing of pharmacies is financed in the payment decree by means of a signal code in 2016, or by this form, or by any other form? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u96	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask the Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to answer the question of interpelling with order number six on the exclusion of pharmacists from the conciliation procedure for the payment decree. According to Article 17 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5 of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance, as amended, is the Ministry of Health only convened by conciliation and organises the course of the opening and closing negotiations of the conciliation procedure. Each professional association representing the contracting providers of health services shall have the right by law to participate in the conciliation procedure. The conciliation procedure shall be brought into the hands of the parties. The procedural rules are thus the result of an agreement between representatives of health service providers and representatives of health insurance companies. At the opening meeting of the conciliation procedure on 1 April this year, Mgr presented it. Hampl, a representative of the pharmacists and clinical pharmacists segment, has requested that the Rules of Procedure be amended in order to include a new conciliation segment. The application was duly voted on and the application was not approved. It is clear from the legal conditions that the Ministry of Health has no legal authority to ensure the inclusion of a new conciliation group. However, at Mr Mgr's request. Hampl approached the Ministry by letter of a segment of outpatient gynecologists who presided over the conciliation procedure this year with a request for a procedural resolution of the situation. The chairman of this segment, doktor Dvořák, responded that it is not within the competence of the President's conciliation procedure to appoint a group which is not included in the Rules of Procedure or to include this group in the negotiations. The amendment to the Rules of Procedure must be approved by the joint negotiations. We have recommended that representatives of pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical care providers contact health insurance companies and start negotiations on the level of payments and regulatory restrictions separately. The Ministry of Health is prepared to accept the agreement between that group and representatives of health insurance companies if this agreement complies with the law and public interest, and if this agreement occurs, we are prepared to issue this agreement in the 2016 payment decree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u98	Thank you. Is the answer enough? Just answer the question. Thank you. Now Mrs Věra Kovářová has her interpellation, which intersects the Minister of Finance and Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u99	Thank you. Dear Minister, sparrows around Malostranského náměstí are chirping about the fact that the program for the construction of primary schools, which started last year at the Ministry of Finance, should not continue next year, although according to the original assumption it should have been a programme of at least three years. This, of course, raises concerns in me, because I think that this programme should still have its place next year at least. Although I would not like to believe speculation, I must admit that doubt also records the fact that this year's call for applications for these subsidies has not yet been issued. In response to my question, you answered that the challenge will be announced this year, but not until autumn. You have also stated that, on the basis of the number of applications and the volume of appropriations requested, an appropriate amount of appropriations will be allocated in the draft budget for 2016. I believe that, given that the call is not due until autumn, it is unrealistic for a number of demands to be reflected in the draft state budget for next year. I would remind you that you must submit this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies by 30 September. Minister, I would like you to calm me down and make it clear that the sparrows chirping around Malostranske náměstí are wrong and that the subsidy programme for school construction will continue with sufficient resources next year. I would rather be if the call had been launched as soon as possible in order to take your information about taking these requirements into account in the draft state budget really seriously. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u100	I thank you, too, and when you get an answer, you will see whether the sparrows are right or not, Madame. Another, eighth in line, was drawn by Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, who interpels the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u101	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, with the Health Committee, we visited the hospital at svatý Anna and the ICRC Center. I would like to ask how the Ministry of Health will provide financing for the reconstruction of the hospital at St. Anna, respectively. the financing of the reconstruction, because the hospital obviously doesn't have the means. He has problems with securing supply credit with a necessary contribution to financing 30 percent, although the original promise of your predecessors at the Ministry of Health was around 10 percent. For the hospital 30% participation is essentially liquidation because it is a total of CZK 680 million plus additional money from own resources. The Ministry of Health does not have a more detailed plan for financing through loan restructuring and, where appropriate, assistance with instalments. The payments amount to CZK 66 million a year. Everything is reflected in the hospital's losses, although it is essentially investment. The hospital's always in debt. It is necessary for the hospital to complete the third stage of reconstruction, i.e. connecting corridor, costs are 160 million crowns, again with the necessity of own participation. The operation of the hospital with operating rooms is already being moved and money is again missing for forced construction work. I would like to ask why the Ministry of Health will not take into account the separation of the Centre for Cardiovascular and Transplant Surgery and the Linear Accelerator from the hospital and the reimbursement of the failure of the respective performances. As far as I know, negotiations at the Ministry of Health have not yet been successful and the restructuring of the hospital complex is not yet financially covered. I therefore ask for a statement on how the Ministry of Health will proceed in this case, because funding is significantly more different than for other hospitals that are established by the Ministry of Health. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u103	Mr President, honourable Members, as regards the economic stability of the University Hospital at St. Anna, from the ministry's point of view, this is one of the most painful areas in the area directly managed by organisations. Last year, the government provided this hospital with an exceptional CZK 500 million subsidy to stabilise. Since then, the hospital management, in cooperation with the Ministry, has been working intensively on implementation measures. One of the prerequisites for a successful stabilization of St. Anna is a wider consensus on the reconciliation and coordination of the entire Brno and, in broader terms, South Moravian health. At present, analysis of production and economic data at St. Anna and the University Hospital Brno, which should help identify areas of activities that can be made more effective. There's no way we're planning a major restriction on care. One of the influences that adversely affects the management of the University Hospital at St. Anna, belongs to the ICRC project, respectively. the start of the sustainability phase, despite significant positive measures implemented in cooperation with the Ministry. It's for example. Agreement with Mayo Clinic, which brings savings of CZK 50 million a year. I think what has been said here needs to be accepted, that is, in the past, the strategic steps taken that have damaged this hospital in terms of sustainable funding, whether it was giving up the operation of linear accelerators, or before that, the department of cardiovascular surgery and transplantation. However, these are steps which the Ministry is unable to take in its executive steps and whose definitive solution we want to wait for the outcome of the working group, where not only the Ministry is involved, where not only the directors of key hospitals in Brno, but also representatives of the city of Brno and the region are involved. As regards possible financial assistance from the Ministry of Health in terms of addressing investments under the ICRC, and priori we do not say that we will not support the hospital in these steps, however we want to wait to see how the management will develop in the second half of this year, and we are ready to discuss any requests for assistance from the hospital.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u104	Thank you. The Member is about to ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u105	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. But I still don't know if it's common for other hospitals set up by the Ministry of Health to have a similar system of financing for reconstruction, i.e. a hospital's direct contribution of 30 per cent would be required. I don't recall running into anything like this in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Health and releasing relevant funds to individual hospitals set up by the Ministry of Health. So it is unclear to me how this problem with the 30% participation arose. Of course, the ICRC project is a matter where the hospital is likely to have to guarantee the sustainability of the project. There is a problem monitoring of the costs that are from the centre, possibly costs associated with research, etc. [[Attention on time.]] Again, it is not entirely clear how this money will be generated by the hospital's own operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u106	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u107	Mr President, honourable Members, as regards participation of 30%, I do not think that this is an unusual percentage in relation to the participation of hospitals in investment subsidies. On the contrary, I feel that this is more or less a common measure of participation. Of course, there are projects where some hospitals even offer higher participation, there are projects where the participation was smaller. However, I do not think that the level of participation alone is the fundamental problem. The fundamental problem - and this, Mr President, you also said through Mr President - is the long-term unsustainable structure of providing care in terms of economic stability, so 30% of the participation that is not a major problem elsewhere is a problem for this hospital. The second thing that is incomprehensible to me, which has historically arisen, is that the management of the hospital in the previous periods has decided on a supply loan that should now be paid out of service. That's a very strange decision for me, I don't understand him, and as director of the hospital, I would never approach something like this. However, a really long-term solution to St. Anna will not be possible without restructuring the whole care mainly within the city of Brno. I mentioned the analysis here, and there's some very interesting information that shows that it's basically St. John's University Hospital. Anna provides a large amount of care where no segment of this care is economically strong and interesting enough to, say, compensate losses on other segments as is common among other large directly managed organizations. [[Attention on time.]] This is what we will try to do, with which we will also need the assistance of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll keep the results up to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u108	Thank you. I will now ask that Mrs Jitka Chalánková, who interpels the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová, present her interview. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, on June 19, I participated in a duel on the upcoming implementation of Norwegian Barnevern practices in the Czech Republic on Czech Radio and against. Because you've just been busy, your deputy Zuzana Šteklová must have represented you on the show. Your deputy said she didn't even know what the Norwegian child care system meant, and she assured me that no official future family protection bill was yet on the table. However, during June and July they will be consulted with the regions and subsequently with the public. That's where my first question comes from. It's already July. Have these official theories of the future Family Protection Act already been provided to at least the regions? Why are these thesis not consulted with the public at all, including the public expert? Will you cooperate with the Committee on Social Policy in the preparation? When will you present these thesis to us? Your deputy on the show denied information that the MPSV is working with the Norwegian party to prepare the law. On the MPSV website, however, for the project CZ04 Endangered families and children realized within the project Right to Childhood literally states: The programme CZ04 consists of three parts. The first one is a pre-defined project which will be implemented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic. The aim of this predefined project is a unifying adaptation and the Ministry will implement it in close cooperation with the Norwegian partner, the Directorate for Family, Children, Youth, BUFDIR. That's where my second question is. I'm supposed to trust your deputy that there's no cooperation with the Norwegian side, and you don't know what the Norwegian system involves on the MPSV? Or the official information of the MPSV, which describes in detail what cooperation with the Norwegian BUFDIR, the head office for the family, involves? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u110	I thank you for your time, too, and I will ask the Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u111	Mr President, Members, I would perhaps ask the Member to stop haunting the Czech public by some undefined Norwegian ghost who steals children, and we want to copy it from them. Yes, we want to change the system of care for vulnerable children in our Republic, because it is a matter that has been criticized here by both domestic and foreign experts for the last fifteen years, perhaps even more, because the system is ununited. A piece belongs to the Ministry of Education, infant formulas are still formally or methodically under the Ministry of Health, the rest has the Ministry of Labour, interferes with the Ministry of Justice, through courts that always make decisions concerning the transfer of children, etc. This system of fragmented care is not particularly good for children. The second basic objective that I would really like to achieve is to reduce the number of children taken from biological families by trying to support biological families who are simply socially ill in order not to remove them, which means that the number of children who leave their biological family in the Czech Republic will be reduced. Nor do I, like the Deputy Minister, really know what the Norwegian childcare system means in detail, but from what the atmosphere in the media is created here, I estimate that you mean that it is a system that, on the contrary, many children from families take away. So I repeat this again: our aim is to reduce these numbers significantly and then, when children have to be removed, to reduce their numbers significantly, which are in institutional care, because the numbers in our country are still one of the highest in Europe. So I guess that's the main thing. If the deputy mistress denied us working with Norway, I don't know, I didn't hear the interview. Yes, of course, we're working with Norway, it's been working with Norway's funds since 2009 where who, the complete gros of that money, goes to repair cultural monuments, to the environment, here colleague Brabec doesn't exactly fit, but he would certainly confirm it. Yes, part of Norway's funds fund our programme "Dangered children and youth," where we want it to be an improvement in the quality of the childcare system and their protection, as I have already said. And as part of this project, we are not taking over any Norwegian model - again, please do not intimidate the public. We pay for all kinds of consultations with many or many countries and choose from what is closest to us. I repeat, the purpose is to reduce significantly the number of children taken from families and those already to be taken away, so to reduce their numbers in the care of the constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u112	I thank you, Madame President, that she is about to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u113	So thank you. I am glad that the Social Policy Committee has received some information on our questions. These also included statistics on the number of children being taken away, because we are constantly hearing the need to reduce the number of children being taken away. Yet we have been told that quality statistics cannot be produced. Then it's hard to lean on them. I'd like to have those criticisms that come from different institutions, and they're well-founded. Who teaches them, who brings them and who signs them. At the same time, as a committee on social policy, we asked for an impact study, called. RIA, an analysis of the impact of the actions you intend to take. First of all, we want an official thesis. If we are to participate in any way in cooperation, then we want to know that we are cooperating and we are talking about issues that are official, not as the Deputy Minister said they are unofficial. Then we can say together that we will definitely agree that the most important thing is to help the primary biological family to preserve as many children as possible in its original biological environment with their biological parents. But it's these theories that we don't know if they're official, they don't really contain. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So I'm asking you once again for an official thesis so that we can both discuss the same thesis on the task force, where your counselors have already come to, and we can work together on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u114	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u115	Thank you. When the official thesis is done, they will, and of course, those who want and who deal with it will have them at their disposal. We're not gonna make anything ourselves at the Ministry, because it doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u116	Thank you. I will now request an interview from Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who is intersecting the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u117	Thank you. I would like to address the Minister, I understand that he is absent because of serious foreign negotiations, I accept that, but I will, of course, receive a written reply. This is the problem. I was looking at a recent demonstration against migrants, which became famous especially by the fact that gallows appeared on it, and this was widely discussed in the Czech public. I will leave aside the fact that similar scenes two years ago, or how many years ago, the Prime Minister, then an opposition politician, liked and opposed them very much. I would like to say that I, as the current opposition politician, protested against the current gallows, because I think democracy is worth defending, whether we are in opposition or in coalition. But there was also an inscription, unfortunately indistinguishably, I don't have the proof in the sense of anti-Jewish, which is why I remembered that there was a gentleman named Adam B Bartoš. Since 2013, he has started to create a list of famous Žid operating in the Czech Republic, whether artists, politicians, economists, entrepreneurs, educators etc., athletes, and I know that this list has been dealt with by the Ministry of the Interior, which is also dealt with by the Office for Personal Data Protection, and these two institutions do not yet show what the outcome of this investigation is. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister how far they have progressed in this investigation as regards possible criminal activity in the event of publication of such a list, and secondly whether he has any knowledge that similar inscriptions have appeared at the demonstration I was talking about, the police are assessing this, how he assessed it and how his office will proceed on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u118	I thank you for your interpelation and ask Mr Radim Holeček, on the 11th in order, for his interpellation to the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec again. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u119	Dear absent minister, I am addressing you on the matter of placing refugees from countries outside the European Union. The current publicly available information is that the Czech Government approved the admission of 1,500 refugees to the Czech Republic within two years. I assume that, if the Government A has spoken, there is also a B, information about where refugees will be placed in the Czech Republic. In this regard, however, the public information available so far is somewhat unspecific. I have noticed a variant of placement of refugees in a renewed camp in Vyšní Lhoty, Frýdecko-Místek, but the game is supposedly also the possibility of applying a German model where refugees are redistributed so that individual cities and municipalities are obliged to accept and accommodate certain parts of refugees. This is said to be specifically related to the Altenberg mountain resort in the Ore Mountains, which is directly adjacent to Teplice. Accommodation facility for refugees is to be created there directly on the Czech-German border in the building of the former customs office. Similar facilities are to be created in Saxony in other villages along the Czech-German border, not only in the Ore Mountains, but also in the Lusatian Region. You've probably noticed a closing case with an alleged plan for housing refugees in Ústí nad Labem. According to publicly available information, the city council dealt with the idea or idea of placing refugees or asylum seekers in an unused part of the university dormitories. This idea in quotation marks subsequently reaped considerable criticism from the public of Ústí. In my opinion, this criticism is entirely justified because such considerations are in sharp conflict with the interests of the city of Ústí nad Labem and its inhabitants, but also with the interests of the University of Jan Evangelista Purkyně and with the interests of the Ústí Region. Our region suffers from serious social problems and increases tensions by placing refugees on its territory, I personally consider it extremely irresponsible. As an MP elected for the Ústí Region, I therefore ask you: 1. What strategy does the Czech government have for placing refugees in the Czech Republic? 2. Is there any possibility that refugees would be placed on the basis of a state directive in individual cities and municipalities, with municipalities and cities obliged to accommodate them? 3. Is or will the decision on the refugee placement system take into account the specifics of individual regions, namely the current status of individual regions in terms of already existing social problems? Thank you in advance for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u120	Thank you. You will be answered in writing. I will now request an interview from Mr Radim Fiala. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u121	Thank you for the floor. I also have an interview with Mr. Chovanec's Home Secretary. Dear Minister, I was surprised to learn from your reply to my written question about the attack on a petition stand in Olomouc by Muslims - and now I quote: "The Ministry of the Interior is continuously carrying out a number of activities aimed at combating extremism, religious but also political, which exploits Islamophobic sentiments in society." I'd like to make sure you're not confusing the cause with the result. Islamic terrorism was not created because our society was Islamophobic. This gave our society a legitimate fear of Islamists after they attacked the citizens of European states. It is especially difficult for you to wonder at the moods of our citizens if you want to voluntarily accept immigrants from North Africa and the Arab world. In fact, migrants travel to Europe as well as supporters of a radical Islamic state. In an interview with the BBC, Libyan government advisor Abdul Basit Harún confirmed it. The moods in our society are the result of an objective situation and are understandable. In this context, I would like to recall the verdict of the European Court of Human Rights. He clearly states that Islamic Sharia law is incompatible with democratic establishment. I therefore think it is clear that citizens are expressing concerns about Islamisation and defending their fundamental human rights. In this context, I ask you to know what steps the Police of the Czech Republic is taking against promoting Islamic law in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u122	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Next was Mrs. Jana Hnyková, who intersects Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I prepared my interpelation and did not know how the government's negotiations would turn out to finance social services for 2015. At this point, I could withdraw my intervention because you've funded 720 million in social services despite your rejection attitude and your Ministry of Finance. However, I will not forgive myself, Minister, the comment on the financing of social services and also on your refusal. Social services are not stolen, but they take care of people who are in a difficult situation, and social services workers and their salaries are 7,000 below the national average. So no glory. I must also remind you from my many years of experience in social services work that, since 2007, employers, the Association of Regions and the Union and other organisations have been calling attention to the underfinancing of social services. Yes, the amount of subsidies was based on a political decision, and there were petitions, protests, and there were always ways to finance social services. I was convinced that your coalition would provide enough funding for the operation of these services, but I was very wrong. All the above-integrated organisations must fight for the financing of social services at all times. Only after difficult negotiations until July of this year will you decide to finance social services. I'm asking why. Why do you keep the founders and employees in doubt for so long? Why is your ministry doing such obstructions? After all, you were among those who raised the salaries of social services employees. You know for yourself what the amount of old-age, disability pension is, what the care allowance is, and what the region's options are. I'm sorry, but you and your Treasury staff should approach this area responsibly. I hope that in the preparation of the 2016 budget, you have treated it this way. I suppose-- [[Attention on time.]] I have the last sentence, Mr President. I suppose you'll have enough money for social services to keep the services quality and level, and users and employees live with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u124	Thank you, too. Now the fourteenth in the order of the questioning was drawn by Mr Marek Černoch. I see he's coming. Mr. Ambassador, come and give your interpellation. It's an interpellation to the Home Secretary, Milan Chovanec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u125	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to intersect the absent Minister Chovanec with a question. We can all agree that protection of drinking water sources is strategically important for the Czech Republic. It is because of its sensitivity that it can simply become the target of an attack. It could theoretically have a catastrophic impact. What real security is in the Czech Republic can be seen from the recent contamination of the water line in Prague 6. On this issue, I would like to ask how the protection of water networks is currently secured and to ensure the detection of possible contamination of water series in Prague and, of course, in other cities, so as not to endanger human health in case of further contamination of water with a life-threatening substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u126	Thank you. I will now request an interview by Mr Antonín Seďa, who intersects Minister Martin Stropnický. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u127	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I understand that you have inherited a number of problems in the resort and now it is up to you to solve them. That is why I am referring to you on the issue of still pending complaints about illegal working time regulations. Today there are some 1700 complaints on the Ministry of Defence and so far after almost eight years nothing has happened and these complaints have not been settled. In my opinion, this situation was caused by the personnel base, underfinancing the resort and fear of responsibility. My first question is what is the state of handling these complaints and whether they will be dealt with in the foreseeable future. I would like to point out that former professional soldiers are now turning to Mrs. Ombudsman to help them. The second problem is the real state of professional soldiers, when the army lacks thousands of soldiers. This personnel base can mean unregulated overloading of soldiers in the service, even though the relevant European directives are trying to eliminate work over time. And since there are no trade unions in the army by law, it is a question of who will defend the rights of a professional soldier. That is why I ask, Minister: are you concerned about this possible problem that exists in our army today? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is quite a complex and long-term problem, which has its history, of course, its substance, current status and some measures that are being taken. And it's exactly the kind of history that can be described for 30 minutes, 20, 60 and 90. I'll try to limit myself to three. The condition to try and answer as specifically as possible. In 2014, soldiers are being applied to most of the armed forces because in 2013 a soldier actually succeeded with his complaint, which was still handled during the time of my predecessor, Minister Picko. This was the famous case from Čáslav, which, of course, eventually reached the Supreme Administrative Court on a rather difficult journey, which acknowledged the claim for compensation or overtime to the relevant soldier and granted the request. And, of course, it triggered the chain as it was discussed here. Everyone started to copy the same model and started filing a lot of complaints. The total number of complaints on 15 June of this year is 1777. Most are in the air force, where there are more than a thousand. But the final decision is almost a thousand requests, so the situation is not, let's say, without some development and I dare call it positive. A total of 3.5 miles have already been reimbursed. Crowns. We have estimates of the possible maximum total volume that the soldiers are asking for, which doesn't mean it's the volume that would be reimbursed, but some maximum maximum. That's about 60 miles. I want to stress that we don't even expect that to be the amount that would be involved. At the same time, I want to say that this is a consequence of the rules set in the past. So from 1. 7. Since the amendment to Law 221, on professional soldiers, there has been no further threat. So much in the utmost briefness. Perhaps again: To deepen some complaints or increase their numbers as a result of overloading soldiers in the absence of crews, as is known and, as has also been quoted here in the morning, by one word - we do not anticipate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u130	Thank you. The Member is going to ask an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u131	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, thank you for your specific answers. I agree that this is a complex long-term problem. Since 2013, the floodgates of other complaints have been opened. I'd just like to ask you when do you expect to deal with the other 780 complaints? If you have any idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And once again, I'm going to ask the Minister to answer us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u133	Thank you, Mr President. It is also often related to informing those soldiers, or with - I use unpleasant words - training or knowledge of my rights and duties. We have now focused on this in recent months to make it clear to as many soldiers and their commanders as possible what the claim is, what the claim is not. What is really an obligation, where there are those boundaries and where there are possible risks of different interpretations. So the legal service, as I would call it, is very active. It was held in February, April and December 2014 with the personal participation of the Chief of Staff, in February 2015 there was another such training for lawyers and commanders. We have also dealt with the public defender of rights through the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. That was May 19th of this year. We've answered Senator Michálek's written question twice. So we're trying to make sure that information doesn't grow anymore. However, in order to respond more specifically to the time horizon or outlook on which the question has been asked - it is difficult to answer because we do not know the number of appeals or compliances or shifts to higher instance courts. But my gross guess is two to three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u134	Thank you, Minister. Before we go any further, I'll read another note. Today, from 18 o'clock to the end of the day, Mrs Markéta Wernerová apologizes for the proceedings. I would now ask Mr. Jiří Štětina, who was drawn as 16th in order, with his intervention on Minister Kateřina Valachová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u135	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I received your reply on 23 June, as addressed to me by the Deputy Minister Marksová of 17. 6. I'm not going down to criticize you because I know you haven't processed that answer. In addition, you have the relevant deputy and responsible staff who did not take into account the real facts and, above all, the audit conclusion of the SAO 14/04, which addresses the funds of the State provided for selected programmes, state budget indicators, general sporting activities. Not only for these reasons, I consider your response not only to be inadequate but to be directly misleading and to include the conduct of the President of the Autoclub of the Czech Republic, who is infamous for its activities in Sazka. Just a quote from the SAO's audit conclusion: "The Czech Republic's Autoklub used state budget funds in an amount of CZK 5.46 million unjustly when it violated the conditions under which the state budget funds were granted to it." Furthermore, I am not satisfied with the answers to individual questions, particularly in the area of the membership base, and the justification that central electronic records have not been kept, and it is rather smiling than real. I also lack the opinion of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports on the ongoing measure of the Municipal Court in Prague, which suspended the validity of certain provisions of the regulations of the autoclub. Madam Secretary, I will be very happy and I will be extremely supportive of this when the Czech Government statement in Chapter 8.2 of the Sport will be completely fulfilled: "We want a stable environment for financing sports clubs with emphasis on youth work, an environment supporting co-financing of sports activities. We will create conditions for trainers and sports instructors of youth including opportunities for the second career of active athletes." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u136	I thank you, too, and I will ask the Minister to answer your question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u137	Mr President, honourable Members. Dear Member, I have listened with interest to your position, and I would like to take the liberty of responding in the way that I believe that personal negotiations on this matter will be probably the most appropriate, where, of course, I would have secured my own personal knowledge of the problem. So I'm offering a personal meeting, and then, of course, a written addition to the interpelation in a spirit that you lacked, if that's how I can react.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u138	Thank you. You'll have an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u139	I don't have a question. I just want to thank the Minister very much for the approach she has on this serious issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u140	Thank you, too. And now I would ask Mr Petr Bendl for his intervention on the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues. Minister, you have recently shielded and patronized the celebrations of the 60th anniversary of a single agricultural cooperative in the neighboring community where you live, claiming to be a major critic of collectiveization. I suppose we'll discuss this issue in the Chamber of Deputies, and your approach, during September. But I would like to ask you a question that concerns precisely the representatives of the collectiveisation in agriculture in Czechoslovakia at the time. When I was a minister, I left photographs of people who were leading Communist officials and who were direct actors in the acquisition of property, the destruction of human lives and fates after tens of thousands, I had the photographs of these agriculture ministers removed from the Secretariat of the Ministry of Agriculture and stored them somewhere deep in the archive. According to my information, these photographs of representatives of totalitarianism are hanging on the minister's secretariat again. I want to ask you if this is your personal approach to the situation. Because then how do you believe that you say that you condemn collectivization and yet there are pictures of ministers in the minister's secretariat who used to take property directly from people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u143	Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues. I have a few brief reactions to the interpellation made here by Minister Bendl. For one thing, I did not take over the patronage of the anniversary of the founding of a single agricultural cooperative, I took over the patronage, which is precisely: an exhibition of historical agricultural technology on the anniversary of the 60th anniversary of the founding of an agricultural cooperative. So it was primarily an exhibition of agricultural technology, on which about three machines were from about thirty machines of this agricultural cooperative and the remaining around twenty were machines of local private farmers from the local community and the surrounding area. It was not my neighboring village, it was a village about 18 km away from my residence within my district. Maybe just enough to explain and refine some of the facts so that something isn't confused again. When it comes to photos on the secretariat, I didn't post any photos. When I joined as Minister, there were pictures of all ministers in the hallway of the Ministry of Agriculture and up to today from the founding of Czechoslovakia from 1918 until today. I left the photographs there, I shouldn't have considered whether to take them off, or what to do with them, because there are men in the photos that I respect as my predecessors. For example, I appreciate Josef Lux very much until today. I hear from the agricultural public that it was one of the best agricultural ministers this country has ever had. So I can't imagine doing any selections. I take it as part of history, whether history, which we can be proud of, or history, which is rather gloomy and which some should be ashamed of. That's right! But it's just history, and if I'm not mistaken, there are other resorts that have posted their predecessors who were there. Even if you go to institutions like the Vatican, for example, the Popes are depicted there throughout the history of the Roman Catholic Church as such, which the Church was not proud of, but still remained there as part of history and perhaps even memento, to realize that there were also those who were here and those who caused some things here. So I have to say, there's 44 in that hallway, if I'm not mistaken, ministers. I'm not hanging there. I said I'd never hang there while I was in the ministry. And if anyone wants to put me in there, let them put me in there, but I'll never look at myself. This is the reality of the paintings in the hallway of the Ministry of Agriculture. I take it as a fact, as part of the history of the building, because those people were there. It's not that I have reason to be proud of people who are there between 1948 and 1990. No way. I just take it as a part of the history books, we don't delete chapters that we don't like very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u144	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member whether he will have an additional question. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u145	Thank you so much for your answer. That's enough for me. You simply don't mind the faces and photographs of people, ministers who destroyed Czechoslovak agriculture, who destroyed people's lives. And here you're defending it's history after all, so we have to take it seriously. It's like hanging Hitler up there and saying that it's also history that belongs to the Čech. That's completely insane. Then you cannot defend the inheritance of your fathers you speak of, whom you value, in any way. Don't be mad at me. For me, the fact that you covered up the 60th anniversary of JZD is actually just another piece of your behavior towards farmers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u146	Thank you. The Minister is about to respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u147	I'd just like to remind you that I've shielded, and I've already made it very clear here, an exhibition of agricultural technology on the anniversary. So don't make an interpretation here - as your Chairman Stanjura says, do not translate my English into Czech by a member of ODS, Petr Bendl, who is greatly misrepresenting. Like a lot of farmers in the agricultural public who have a problem with how you worked as Minister of Agriculture, they think you're a very bad Minister of Agriculture. We can talk in the next interviews about how he succeeded under your leadership and practically in broad daylight broke into the Forests of the Czech Republic, how the State Land Office operated under the leadership of some ministers from the ODS. I'm not thinking of taking you down either. I take that as the fact that there was such a history. And I repeat once again, so that it is clearly understood, even one that we can be proud of, and one that is completely tragic. So, unfortunately, that's the situation, or, at some times, thank you. And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u148	I ask the Members not to shout at each other. If you want to talk things out, go to the lobby and don't yell at each other. Thank you. I'll read the note that came to me. Today, as of 5:30 p.m., Mr Matěj Fichtner apologizes for his work. Furthermore, the interview under number 18, which is held by Karel Fiedler, is downloaded at his own request. We will therefore continue with the intercession that Mr Martin Lank has and intersects the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u149	Beautiful afternoon. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, esteemed absent Member, Minister, Germany, France, Austria, Hungary and the United Kingdom are closing their borders. Austria, effective immediately until further notice, has suspended the asylum procedures, thus completely interrupting the granting of asylum. According to publicly available sources, France is unable to prevent the pillaging of some of its municipalities, and it is only with great difficulty that it is trying to protect the trucks of international road transport from aggressive immigrants who want to get into Great Britain in any way. Hungary is solving conflicts in refugee camps and is rapidly building a fence on the border with Serbia to protect the external border of the Schengen area. [[17.30 hours]] In Malmö, Sweden, according to the information available, there is once again mass looting and destruction of Swedish citizens' property. Similar cases are growing every day. It is no wonder that our closest allies from the Visegrad Four - Poland and Slovakia - clearly declared that they were willing to accept only Christians persecuted by Islamic fanatics in their territory. Islamic State. In the spirit of the above, I ask: What security measures have been taken at our national borders? What forces have been earmarked for this? Because when it comes to random checks, which only serve to have something to write about by journalists, it is, in my opinion, a strategic failure. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u150	I thank you for your interview, you will be answered in writing. I would now ask Mr Leoš Heger, who is intersecting the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u151	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, Minister Nemecko, ladies and gentlemen, I have an interview that concerns more or less technical health problems rather than political issues and concerns health informatics. I must acknowledge the Ministry's rerouting the activities of the Institute for Health Informatics and Statistics, so-called. IHIS, because the demands on the spectrum of information for health management are certainly changing over time. One of the areas where improvement is necessary is the area of measurement of care results. In this respect, the OECD is now producing decent statistics that can help our health care to compare quite seriously with a number of interesting countries for us. Our IHIS already supplies data to determine the relevant indicators, so we can compare ourselves, for example, in the number of necessary hospitalizations in decompensated diabetics, to say one example in which we are extremely good. Unfortunately, we do not supply all data, so the Czech Republic is missing in such quality data, such as the number of postoperative sepsis or pulmonary embolisms and so on. This lack is a damage, and my question, or rather an appeal, is, therefore, whether our cooperation with the OECD will be revised as part of the inventory of data collection and production of important information, and whether it will be done to supplement the data not sent from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for the interview and I will ask the Minister to answer it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the 20 serial interview on cooperation between the IHIS and the OECD on statistics. According to the information provided by the director of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, Mr. docent. Dušek, UHIS and OECD are already working intensively together to transfer data to international statistics, but the scope of the data we transmit is limited by their availability. Only the data available to the IHIS can be transmitted and is entitled to collect according to applicable legislation. Current changes in the scope of the collected data are subject to the upcoming amendment of Act No. 372/2001 Coll., on Health Services, which will significantly increase the availability of data in the national health information system managed by the IHIS and will certainly also make a significant contribution to cooperation with OECD, European Commission and other international bodies with evaluation data. However, the relevance and representativeness of the data transmitted abroad is crucial. These should also be guaranteed by the fact that data to the national health information system will also start to be provided by health insurance companies on the basis of the already mentioned amendment to the Health Services Act. I want to express here and in this speech the hope that the Chamber of Deputies will support this key legislative change, thus helping to make a very significant change in the quality and scope of the data processed on Czech health care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u154	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask whether the Member will ask an additional question. [[Yes.]] Please, you have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u155	Thank you to Minister Němeček for his answer. I think the Ministry's work proves that this important feedback channel is aimed at improving the management of the entire system, because the data are very nonhomogenic and missing. Every time information is discussed, I say the data should be categorized somehow. We have quite a lot of financial data that doesn't go through the UHIS, and we have an extreme amount of capacitive data from the IHIS, although for example for doctors of numbers not quite accurate, but we certainly lack production data, as how many performances per million inhabitants are made. This is interesting to compare with Europe. There's only a few bits. Quality data are very necessary to improve, and I hope that this will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u156	Thank you. The Minister won't respond. In that case, I will ask Mr Michal Kučera with his interpellation to Mr Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u157	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent finance minister, Eurostat statistics clearly show that the e-booking of sales project will result in the liquidation of a significant number of businessmen and small businesses without contributing to an increase in VAT collection into the state budget. I don't want to talk here at the moment about another huge risk of an electronic sales log project, and that of misuse of information. It is clear that you, as the largest food producer in the Czech Republic, want to build a perfect monitoring, which will provide you with all the necessary information in real time on the market situation, financial operations and financial condition of your competition. For billions of public money, online market monitoring will be built for the owners of Agrofert, which will give them a dominant competitive advantage. The result will not be a settlement of the business environment, the result will be a total distortion of competition and market submission to one oligarch. Most entrepreneurs know that now. Minister Babiš, according to public sources, you have allocated a large amount of money from the budget to promote electronic sales records. According to my information, the amount can be up to 130 miles. CZK to promote electronic sales records. I have the following questions for you: 1. What will be the cost of promoting electronic sales records? And I'd like an exact amount here. 2. In which media will this promotion take place? I'm asking for information in which particular. Will you spend money promoting electronic sales records in your media? At the same time, I am officially asking you for a budget of expenditure to promote electronic sales records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now I'm going to ask Mrs Alena Nohavová with her interpellation to the Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u159	Thank you. Dear Minister, since last Friday there was no meeting of the subcommittee on culture in Český Krumlov, I am using this interpelation to ask you, Minister, what will be your steps in resolving the situation of the rotating auditorium in Český Krumlov. Removing the turntable from the upper part of the castle garden and moving it anywhere else will mean losing the attractiveness of both the turntable and the city itself. On the other hand, if the rotating auditorium is not removed from the castle garden, it is said to block the further acceptance of Czech monuments to UNESCO. I'm asking you if it's true. And if so, I consider it blackmail. Are we really going to listen to someone's dictation? After all, Český Krumlov was registered in UNESCO in 1992 and the turntable has been there since 1958, i.e. when the town entered UNESCO it was known. Český Krumlov has certainly been listed for values other than the current state of the castle park. The rotating auditorium is one of Europe's leading open air scenes and is unique in its own way. The opinion of the South Bohemia Region is known for a long time, namely to keep the turntable in its original place. The President's position is similar, which supported the preservation of the turntable during his visit to the South Bohemia Region. I'd like to know your position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u160	Thank you, Madame, for your interpellation. I'll ask Minister Daniel Herman to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, colleagues, thank you for this question, it is a very important matter. As you know, I don't know which one of you knows the location of the top garden of the Český Krumlov castle, just as it was said here, the turntable has been there for almost 60 years. It is in the immediate vicinity of the Bellaria Castle, which is an extremely high quality Baroque building. That's what the debate is about. The basic element of Baroque architecture, whether building architecture or garden architecture, is the axis. The turntable stands in the basic central axis of this garden, and that is actually what the whole discussion is about. Since I'm a South Bohemian native, it has some added value in the fact that I didn't have to get to know the situation in any detail because I've known it since I was a kid. There are two moments - one that concerns conservation. Of course, the Český Krumlov castle and adjacent gardens are an extraordinary monument. On the other hand, there has also been an extraordinary scene of the South Bohemian Theatre under the highest ceiling in the world for decades. I am responsible as Minister of Culture for both segments of this cultural activity, i.e. both the area of conservation and the area of living art. I am deeply convinced that both of these components of art are fully compatible. This means that I have tried since I joined the Minister of Culture to get out of the category yes or no, i.e. from the category turntable in the garden yes or the turntable in the garden no, to the category yes but what. I succeeded in this because at my invitation in the summer of last year two Unesco and Icomos workers came to Český Krumlov to inspect the situation. The result of their expert mission was a letter that we received sometime at the end of last year, and it really resulted in a move from category yes or no to category yes, but what design. So at this point, a working group is meeting regularly to address the subject of a rotating auditorium, and the question of the extraction is addressed, which means a shift according to experts from the Baroque axis, where the really rotating auditorium is disrupting the axis, somewhat - as I would like to bring it closer - just to the farthest part of that Bellaria. Right - It depends on how you stand, just the farthest part of Bellaria. And there will be an architectural contest. The founder of the South Bohemia Theatre is the statutory city of České Budějovice, my hometown, which is currently facing a not completely comfortable situation. However, I firmly believe that this will not have a major impact on the resolution of this matter. This means that this architectural competition will be launched and interesting proposals are expected to emerge from it. I have already seen some plans that are able to meet the expectations of high requirements of conservation care. Either it's supposed to be a dismountable scene or a retractable scene, just a certain condition that would at least disturb this Baroque garden. I can say one thing - that if I influence this fact, the South Bohemian Theatre will play on this scene in Český Krumlov, because Český Krumlov himself and the existence of a Baroque theatre in the chateau area show that the theatre and monument care are very good to each other. For example, recently restored Baroque theatre in Valtice Castle is another testimony. There are of course some people, and they are both in the area of conservation care and in other areas, who very much accentuate one of their specific points of view of the fact, for which the other moments are not so important. I know these opinions. It's an opinion against opinion. The last major responsibility will ultimately be the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. Again, I am very deeply convinced that living art and monument care are fully compatible two manifestations of the same culture, which can very well complement, enrich the beautiful atmosphere of Krumlov castle. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u162	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you, Madame, you will not have an additional question. [[No.]] Okay. In that case, on the 23rd in order, Mrs Radka Maxová was drawn with her interpelling to Minister Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to quote your speech from the last hearing of Act 48 on Public Health Insurance: Yes, I am making a commitment here that we are ready for this debate, that we are ready to discuss this matter at the expert forum and possibly to identify those medical devices where it will not be a problem. And before the end of the year, the Amendment to Law 48 is to be reopened, and then I think we can do this. And I ask you, Minister, how is this promise going? Whether some steps have already been taken to help our patients volunteer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u164	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask the Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u165	Mr President, honourable Members, a request for an adjustment. overstandards, or, as is sometimes referred to as voluntary participation by an insured person in the payment of health services, have only resulted in a second reading of a transparent amendment in the Chamber of Deputies. Before submitting it, I did not notice any effort by coalition partners to address the above issue, even though the whole proposal has been in the legislative process for more than a year. There are currently several interpretational opinions for the voluntary participation of insured persons in the provision of paid services, and even individual providers do not approach payment in addition to the services covered by health insurance in a uniform manner. The solution cannot only consist in a simple statement that the insured person has the opportunity to pay extra, but also in establishing a clear establishment of the basic price of a particular medical device and in the possibility of control over respect for the rights of insured persons. Solving this issue, which will have a serious impact on the current concept of payment of medical devices, and thus on the whole system of public health insurance, is not a happy point of amendment. I would like to take this opportunity to inform the Chamber of Deputies that there is a substantive intention at the Ministry of Health to regulate price and payment levels of medical devices, which is a very extensive legal standard, which I expect to put into government in September and which will address the whole range of medical devices present on the market in the Czech Republic, will be dealt with according to standard processes in administrative management to determine the payment of these medical devices and the price of these medical devices and, in essence, very much the same as the situation today in the pharmaceutical policy, when we have the drugs fully paid for and when there are medicines with a supplement, this will actually exist for the whole range of medical devices that are here. I think that 95 percent of the whole issue will be dealt with by this legislation. What this regulation will not address is health performance, whose provision is linked to hospitalization and where the provision of this medical device is linked to health performance. We'll deal with this differently. I have already commissioned the Ministry of Health's Legal Department to prepare for me an analysis of what options are there, what risks are there, so that the patient is not exposed to the fact that he will be forced to volunteer for involuntary participation. Of course, I will inform the Chamber of Deputies about the results of this analysis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u166	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask if there will be an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u167	Thank you. So I'd like to ask you about some time horizon of the analysis's result so that we can meet your guaranteed autumn term or the deadline before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u168	Thank you. The Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u169	By the end of this summer, I suppose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u170	Thank you, Minister. The answer is short and clear. That's the way it's supposed to be. The twenty-fourth Mr Igor Nykl, who interpels the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, was drawn with his interview. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u171	Good afternoon, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I'm from Frýdek-Místek, and next year it's 20 years since the so-called urban plan has been approved, which is the key thing for the whole city, where 45,000 cars pass through the city every day. Therefore, for all residents it was a depressing report that came recently that it was alleged that due to the error of the Ministry of Transport when issuing a building permit for the construction of a part of the bypass affecting the protected territory of the Morávka river, the building permit was cancelled by the Ministry of Transport and the matter will be renegotiated at the level of ŘSD, taking into account the need to document the current EIA documentation and the additional building permit should be expected to be renegotiated for up to one year. Many representatives in Frýdek-Místek began to write publicly and considering whether it was not an intention in terms of trying to move the financing of the transport construction from Moravia to Bohemia, they do not speak kindly to the transport resort, which is managed by our ANO movement, considering pressure actions such as blockades. So I want to ask them to answer four questions: One. What exactly is the main problem? Is there anyone in particular to blame? Two. What is the idea of a time-based solution? Three. Can someone, for example, own the city of Frýdek, help you resolve the situation, speed up the solution? Fourth, that's important. There are also some opinions that may happen that the bypass will not eventually build at all. If one hundred percent can rule out this situation, which would be very serious. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u172	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask Minister Took to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u173	Mr President, honourable Members... [[He's coughing.]] I'm sorry, I'm a little sick. In general it can be noted that the construction of R48 Frýdek-Místek bypass contains a total of 265 building buildings and has a length of about 8.5 km. The main route was divided into three parts by the investor ŘSD for the purposes of the construction permit. Your question concerns the second part of the main route, which consists mainly of the eastern part of the bypass, where the building permit was returned for renegotiation. This second part consists of 12 construction buildings with a total length of 2.3 km. The investor submitted the main route as a basis for an irregular decision of the City Council of Frýdek-Místek on the withdrawal of land intended to fulfil the functions of the forest in the framework of the construction procedure for the mentioned 2.3 km. The Children of the Land association appealed to this decision and this decision became legal only after the contested building permit was granted. On the basis of this deficiency, the contested building permit had to be revoked and renegotiated. In order to issue a building permit for the second part, it is now necessary to add binding opinions by ŘSD pursuant to Act No. 39/2015 Coll., by which Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment EIA. The deadline for such addition was set by 30 June 2016 at the latest. This is therefore the final deadline for addition by ŘSD. If the Road and Motorway Directorate submits this supplement in a month, the proceedings will continue within a month. Thus, the fear of delaying the construction for a whole year is unfounded. The proceedings will continue as soon as they are completed. It is also necessary to state here that sufficient funds are not available for financing the construction of the R48 Frýdek-Místek bypass only from national sources. It will therefore be necessary to co-finance this construction from European Union funds and it will be necessary to carry out the above assessment in accordance with Act No. 39/2015. So the time aspect is as follows. The start of the procurement procedure for the construction of the bypass is expected in October 2015, the start of the implementation in the second quarter of 2016. Until then, it can be issued as a binding opinion under Act No. 39/2015 Sb., so also building permit for the second part of the bypass. I'd just like to add that I signed the application for binding opinions yesterday, so it's on. I would like to assure you that this is not a controlled action to not build this bypass. We have it in our plans, we've always had it for 2016, which means we're counting on competing it and starting construction in 2016, preferably in the second quarter. I believe we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u174	I thank you and ask Mr Nykl whether he will want an additional question. It's not like that. Since it is 17.56 and the last interpellation can be laid at 17.55, in which case we have included the next points at 18 o'clock, so I will interrupt this meeting for four minutes and continue at 18 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-005-171.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue according to the approved agenda for the meeting. So we're going to have a point 35, which is
