ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u1	125. Oral inhalation Mrs Pavlína Nytrová, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the issue of back-up maintenance, will perform the first interview according to the winning order of Mrs Pavlína Nytrová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u2	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I believe that we agree that the family is the foundation of the state. Unfortunately, we see families falling apart on a significant scale. The number of single - parent families is constantly increasing. Normally, one parent is not responsible enough to fulfill his basic responsibilities toward his own child or children. Remember that these children did not cause their parents to break up, and they would want to live normally and have every right to do so. Childhood and its experiences are very important for life in adulthood and each state should take care of the generation youngest together with the generation of seniors in all seriousness because they are the most vulnerable groups of the population. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask how the problem of single - parent families will be dealt with, where one parent does not pay maintenance. What is the content of the proposal for a substantive intention of the Act on Advanced Maintenance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u3	Thank you, Madame, for this interpellation. I'll ask the Prime Minister for his first answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u4	Thank you. Madam Members, I must say that they are among the most vulnerable social groups in the Czech Republic when it comes to single families. The problem is that in recent years some adjustments have been made to the social welfare scheme, I am thinking in particular of the abolition of the social supplement, which has actually affected families that are incomplete, where only one parent cares for children. There are more than 100,000 such families in the Czech Republic and their social situation is not good at all. I think it is necessary to distinguish families where the social emergency is simply due to the fact that one parent does not pay, refuses to pay child support, then they are families who are in a social emergency despite the fact that both parents are involved in the nutrition of the child. In a situation where only one parent cares for one or more children and does not have any super-honored employment, this family automatically falls into a group that is at risk of poverty. I believe that our society has ignored this situation for many years, and I think that in the care of groups of citizens who are at risk of poverty, we should focus more heavily on families that are incomplete in the coming months. One of the subsets of single - parent families is families who are affected by the fact that one parent simply refuses to accept economic responsibility for caring for child rearing. We were thinking about the problem when we were preparing the coalition treaty and when we were preparing the current coalition government. In the coalition agreement, we expressed interest in supporting parents with children in cases where the other parent does not pay proper maintenance. The substantive intention of the Act on Advanced Maintenance was processed on the basis of the concluded coalition contract. The law, as I have already mentioned, is a response to the fact that families where one parent does not pay maintenance are among the families who are severely at risk of social exclusion. The Gestor of this bill is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The law, naturally, as it is prepared at the moment, is not an experiment, because the petitioner proposes a solution that is common in a number of European countries. These are social security measures. I must say that, as part of the preparation of this bill, where there has already been an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, it has become clear that, in order to improve the effectiveness of the regulation of backed-up maintenance in our legal order, it is necessary to adapt the issue of maintenance more comprehensively, especially in relation to the rules of civil law - that is the Civil Code, the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code, the Enforcement Code, the Criminal Code - and also to adopt some system measures in the area of determining and enforcing maintenance, which go beyond the proposed regulation, but which also go beyond the substantive scope of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I am very pleased that a working group is now being formed at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the issue of both backed-up maintenance and maintenance as such, including the issue of its designation and enforcement. I assume that on the basis of the results and knowledge of this working group, the intention of the Act on backup maintenance will be further completed and will be submitted to the Government's meeting by 30 June this year. How the Act on Advanced Maintenance is designed at the moment. Advanced maintenance should be provided to those low-income parents with children who have been provided for a certain amount of maintenance, on the basis of a court decision or a court-approved parental agreement, and who, at the same time, have not been able to recover or enforce this maintenance for a certain period by way of execution or judicial enforcement. The individual amount of the advance maintenance paid would then be limited by multiplying the minimum of the child's life so that the amount approximately corresponds to the average amount of maintenance laid down by the courts in the Czech Republic if the maintenance provided by the court was higher than that fixed limit. If the compulsory parent only partially fulfils the maintenance obligation, the difference between the partial payment of the maintenance allowance from the parent and the amount to be paid by the compulsory parent under the decision of the court shall be paid. The supported maintenance will then be recovered directly from the parent who is obliged to pay the maintenance due. I think, on the basis of this law, if it succeeds in enforcing it, the state would guarantee the healthy development of the child in cases where one parent fails to fulfil his role in the family and when other mechanisms have failed to force him to do so effectively. So it's not some dispensing machine, it's a setup of an address system that would start to work as help to finance the family in situations where it wasn't possible in any other way to get one of the maintenance partners to pay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u6	I believe that the issue of singles and singles is really very serious, and Olga Sommerová's document, which was broadcast about 14 days ago, pointed to the gravity of this issue. I recommend to those of you who haven't seen him, see him. My additional question is: Is there any agreement between coalition partners on this coalition plan yet?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u7	Please, Prime Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u8	Thank you. I assume we're going to proceed the way we did in other cases, which means there's a coalition agreement here. We are based on the text of the coalition treaty. We will submit the relevant bill, it will pass the legislative process. I suppose the government should approve it and then submit it to the Chamber of Deputies. I think that the issue is so urgent that it is important that we do not waste time unnecessarily, because it is the specific fates of specific people, of specific children who are now in families that are in an objective social emergency, even though one of the parents who is left alone for their nutrition and to take care of them is working, but when we look at the average wage in the Czech Republic, when we look at real earnings that are achieved in a number of parts of the Czech Republic today, it is obviously not enough for a single parent to take care of two or three children. [[14.40 hours]] The situation of a number of families is truly trivial and, moreover, our legal system does not work at this time in a number of cases in such a way that the parent is able to obtain the right to receive a child care allowance. So I suppose nothing should prevent us from reaching an agreement at government level to present the bill as envisaged by the Government's legislative plan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u9	I thank the Prime Minister for his full reply. Mr Antonín Seďa, who will interpelate the Prime Minister in the matter of "running the state as a company," will give the second interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr Prime Minister, the Ministry of Finance is proposing a law prohibiting legislators from sitting on the supervisory boards of state and semi-state firms, with a ban on nominations for another four years after their departure from Parliament. This is justified by the fact that this function can be used as a bribe of its kind and also by the campaign against so-called tobacco shops, even though this function is not honored. Another reason is the alleged absence of rules on the selection of management and control staff. Apart from the fact that the state cannot really be governed as a company, elected citizens' representatives are to carry out a supervisory function against executives according to the valid Constitution of the Czech Republic, which is happening through their participation in supervisory councils. I am more concerned about the further centralization of the Minister of Finance's power and also from his point of view that the state can really be managed as a company. Dear Prime Minister, what is your view of this latest act of the Minister of Finance? Do you think this proposed measure will improve the functioning of state and semi-state companies, which should be the most important for both the state and our citizens? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u11	I thank Mr Seďa and ask the Prime Minister for a clear answer if the state can be managed as a company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u12	With regard to the supervisory boards, I am thinking in vain about what supervisory boards of state and semi-state firms are Members or Senators. If I look at ČEZ's supervisory board, there is no MP or senator. I suspect that even in the company MERO, Čepro, I do not know if on the supervisory board of the Czech Railways. But I must say that the problem is not extensive, because in the vast majority of the supervisory councils of state and parastatal companies, no Members and senators sit down. It's just a real situation that exists today. Rather, I would say that the participation of a Member or Senator in the supervisory board of a state or semi-state firm is a great exception. We have decided to change the system of personnel policy in terms of state representation in supervisory councils of state and semi-state companies. It was actually one of the first decisions taken by the government. I have suggested to coalition partners that we set up a personnel committee that would actually discuss all ministerial nominations before they were implemented. Coalition partners were first opposed, but in the end I managed to convince them and the Personnel Committee was set up. In my view, the very establishment of the Personnel Committee has already led to a significant reduction in the politicisation of the supervisory boards of state and parastatal companies, because when you compare the representation of active politicians in the supervisory boards of state and semistate firms four or five years ago with what the representation looks like today, I must say that after an annual practice and after an annual experience with the functioning of the government's committee on personnel nominations, the expert character of those who represent the state today on the supervisory board of these companies has significantly strengthened. Thus, we have set up an executive mechanism which, in my view, has significantly led to an improvement in personnel policy and personnel work, and every minister who carries out the personnel nomination must consider whether the nomination is of sufficient quality to pass this government personnel committee. The government's personnel committee is three members and was set up on the basis of a government resolution. I think this has led to a positive shift and a real representation, to say where some current Member and Senator is now from the point of view of a state and semi-state firm, I think it is rather a marginal issue. It's about how it's going to be in the future. We have put a task on the Government's legislative plan for the Ministry of Finance to prepare a law that would provide a certain framework for how personnel nominations to state and parastate companies will be carried out. First, the Minister of Finance refused to prepare such a bill. We have repeatedly discussed this at the Coalition Council, and I am glad that the Minister of Finance has changed his mind, which means that he no longer contradicts this task, which he received on the basis of the Government's programming statement and which he received on the basis of the Government's legislative plan. I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance is preparing an intention which should, in principle, codify existing practice in the law. That means we have a personnel committee, that personnel committee should be set up by law for the next time. Of course, there will now be a debate on the details of who should approve the Personnel Committee, who should bring the material to the government and so on. This must undoubtedly be the decision of the entire government, because the exercise by the Ministry of Finance of most shareholder rights in state and semi-state companies today is the result of the process in which the National Property Fund was abolished and the powers were transferred to the Ministry of Finance after the abolition of the National Property Fund. Here, I think it is important that we have a debate on this proposal. The aim should be for the State to have defined a transparent process whereby the supervisory board of state and semi-state firms will be nominated by people who will have professional qualifications, who will have a clean slate and who will be able to defend the interest of the State in these supervisory boards. And I'd like to underline that, because I don't think any law can solve it. There must always be a specific personnel responsibility of the person who carries out the nomination in order to propose such representatives who will be able to defend public interest, defend the interest of the state, not lobby there for any private or business interests. I'm afraid it can't solve the law with an exact definition, but it will always be the responsibility of a particular minister who comes up with proposals. What can work here is a network in the form of a personnel committee. We are implementing this practice at the moment, and if it turns out to be effective, we will incarnate it into a law that envisages a government legislative plan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member does not have an additional question, but on a very similar subject, we will remain on the third question. Mr Václav Klučka will intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on nominations for supervisory boards. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u14	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. It happened exactly what I didn't expect to get on with the same subject immediately after my predecessor, but I will try to come out of it with honor so that maybe the question will be, Prime Minister, essentially a question that Antonín Seďa would otherwise ask as a follow-up question, but you have more time to answer that question. You know, I understand that the coalition will agree on the Human Resources Committee, put its members there in the proportion in which it was agreed, the committee is working, but he's still talking about something else - that it will be a matter of the Ministry of Finance, and it will be on a proposal from the Finance Minister, who will submit a proposal to the Government for the composition of the Human Resources Committee. I don't want to personify it right now, because the next finance minister may be different, but at this point, I think that concentration of power and proposals can essentially be experts' proposals, but it will be people's proposals, which will focus more on the interests of the finance minister or the Ministry of Finance than others. You think this situation in the preparation of the law, respectively. in the discussion, will it be in the final form and in the final stage look different? Otherwise, I totally agree with what you said that if we judge the composition of supervisory councils, you'll hardly be looking for Members and Senators, especially from the title that someone thinks they have any money out of it. They really don't, they're legislators who are exempt from the reward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u15	I thank Mr Klučka. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u16	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I think, of course, the question is how the law will ultimately be formulated, but the composition of the staff committee should be a matter of decision by the entire government. I'll go back to how the property rights system actually worked before the National Property Fund was lifted. I would like to remind you that at the head of the National Property Fund was the Presidium of the National Property Fund, where their representatives had individual resorts. This means that the Presidium of the National Property Fund was not formally composed on the basis of proposals made by the Minister of Finance, but was essentially a government body and then exercised control over the exercise of property rights in individual companies owned by the National Property Fund. After the National Property Fund was abolished, the property rights transferred from the National Property Fund to one resort, to the Ministry of Finance, and thus the concentration of ownership rights exercised at the Ministry of Finance. The question is whether this is really effective and whether this should be the main role of the Ministry of Finance - to manage the exercise of shareholder rights in the individual companies. I believe that this is not absolutely necessary, and I therefore think that the creation of a law-based personnel committee should also be linked to the fact that its composition should be a matter of government decision and, in my view, a wider representation of individual departments should also be reflected there. Regardless of whether the government will be monochrome or coalition government, I don't think it's okay if it's a matter of just one ministry in terms of exercising shareholder rights. That's the first point. Second point. I also noticed today's headline that the Ministry of Finance is proposing to remove Members and Senators from the Supervisory Board. The practice is that after a year of working the HR committee, there is no one to wipe out. There are hardly any MPs and senators there. I think it would be good to do statistics, and I don't have it on hand right now, but I think it would be good if journalists took the composition of supervisory boards of state and semi-state firms and looked at how many Members and senators there really are, and what political parties those Members or senators are from. So after a year of working the Personnel Committee, there's no reason to sweep Members and Senators out of the Supervisory Board. It is simply because there are no more Members and Senators there, except for some limited exceptions. So that's not the problem. The problem is to ensure high-quality nominations of experts who will defend the interest of the state, as I have already said in my reply to the previous interpelation. So I think that the practice has proven itself that there is no problem with us laying it under the law so that there are legal rules for the appointment of the Personnel Committee, and I also believe that the composition of the Personnel Committee should not be just a matter of the Ministry of Finance, but it should be a matter of decision by the entire government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member does not have an additional question, and this brings us to the fourth interview, when Mr Ladislav Šincl will interpel the Prime Minister on the chance of introducing a new public holiday on the Great Friday. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u18	Dear Prime Minister, tomorrow is called. Good Friday, which is part of one of the most important Christian festivals - Easter. For a small part of the population of the Czech Republic, Easter is an important symbol associated with the Christian tradition, which is one of the main foundations of the history of European civilization. The origin of the Czech state, which was founded by Prince Bořivoj at the end of the 9th century, is connected with Christianity and its coming to our countries. Thanks to the inclusion of the secular Easter Monday in the Act on State Holidays, the Czech Republic recognises the weight of Easter. Good Friday is recognized as an official holiday e.g. Great Britain, Ireland, Finland, Germany, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and, last but not least, Slovakia and many others. In Denmark and Norway, the holiday is even called. Green Thursday. In 2013, I personally suggested that Good Friday be declared a holiday by law so that this day would be a day of work rest and people would not have to work. Unfortunately, I wasn't successful at the time. See ya. I have also tried to take into account the social aspect of a more peaceful Easter holiday, which is part of Good Friday. In favour of the introduction of the Great Friday as a holiday, the fact that it is officially a school holiday on Good Friday is also speaking, but this day is still a working day. This creates a significant, often economic problem for parents to provide underage children during working hours. The approval of the Great Friday as a holiday would thus allow families to spend more holiday time together. As you know, tomorrow, on Good Friday, neither the Chamber of Deputies nor Members are working and going home. I do not understand why Members should be at home and ordinary people should come to work on this day. I wish they had the same opportunity as Members. Question for you. Dear Prime Minister, on 3 April 2013, you yourself voted in favour of my proposal to introduce this new holiday. I wonder how you are proposing today that Good Friday be recognised as an official holiday in the Czech Republic, and therefore a day off, as is the case elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u19	I thank Mr Šincl and ask the Prime Minister to answer if he will be celebrating the state holiday tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u20	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, even if I wanted to, I cannot, because neither the Chamber of Deputies nor the Senate have decided on the establishment of a new public holiday yet, but in any case, I would like to say that this will be Parliament's sovereign decision if the number of national holidays in the Czech Republic expands. We are the country where 13 public holidays are now celebrated during the calendar year, respectively. We have 13 holidays or free days. So we are on a rather lower European average from the point of view of the number of days so defined. So it seems that we do not have a large number of public holidays or days off, and we can, in my opinion, afford to have a debate on whether to not expand their numbers in the context that Good Friday is a holiday in a number of European countries. As I have found out, Good Friday is a holiday in the Federal Republic of Germany, Slovakia, France, but also in Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Finland, Denmark, the Baltic countries, Ireland, Luxembourg, Hungary, the Netherlands and, overall, recognizes Good Friday as a day of working quiet around 40 states in the world. So it is a holiday that is relatively widespread in the Christian part of the world, but it is also true that not all countries that have a strong Christian, Catholic tradition in Europe have this day as a state holiday, because Austria, Poland, Italy, which is not yet celebrated on Good Friday as a state holiday. I think it is indeed now a matter of debate that will undoubtedly be conducted on Parliament's soil. I personally voted in favour of such proposals as a Member in recent years if they were on the table in the Chamber of Deputies, and I do not see why I would change my mind. I think that, especially in the context of the fact that really very often schools announce holidays at this very time, so some alignment of the rhythm of school holidays with rhythm and the number of working days would certainly make the situation easier for a number of families. So maybe this too is an argument for the debate that we will undoubtedly lead and which will eventually end Parliament's sovereign decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u22	Dear Prime Minister, I must say that I am pleased with your position on this matter and that you do not listen to the voices as to how the introduction of a new holiday could significantly affect the economic results of the Czech Republic. I am pleased because I believe that human life is not just about economic results, GDP, profits, etc. There are other values. When you replied that the Act on State Holidays currently provides for 13 holidays, which are working days, two of them, namely the Day of Reconstruction of the Czech State and the New Year, come together on 1 January, so we celebrate the holidays in reality only 12. Few people know that we are in the lower European average. For example Slovakia, Austria, Sweden, Denmark, Luxembourg, Italy, Portugal have holidays 13, Belgium 14, Spain 18 and Norway even 19. Moreover, the introduction of this holiday would be fully in line with Article 2 of the European Social Charter to which the Czech Republic committed itself in 1989. [[Time warning]] Additional question: How do you see the chance for this proposal to succeed in this Chamber of Deputies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u23	Thank you, Mr Šincl. Prime Minister, how many government Members will you persuade this proposal to succeed in this Chamber of Deputies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u24	Thank you, honourable Member. This is indeed a very difficult question, because I have no data available to me to conclude how many Members and Members are prepared to support such a proposal, so we will undoubtedly be looking forward to a survey of the fight during the first vote on such a bill. We will see how many colleagues and colleagues will vote in favour of his eventual rejection at first reading. But I'm going to add my vote to making Good Friday a public holiday. I think that we are among the countries that behave soberly, measuredly in the field of public holidays, we do not have too many of them, and I think it is also not quite easy to argue that the establishment of one day of the public holiday will have serious economic consequences, because, of course, there are certain parts and segments of the economy that are counting on actively taking advantage of it. There is an area of culture, tourism, or there are other areas that can, of course, profit from the fact that there will be a state holiday and that families will have one extra day off on an extended weekend, which we mostly associate with Easter today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u25	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Mrs Miroslava Němcová, who will be asking the Prime Minister about Russian propaganda in the Czech Republic, will give the fifth interview. Gentlemen, I ask for peace of mind!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u26	Dear Prime Minister, this is a difficult subject, we have little time, but I will try anyway. I would like to ask you whether you have registered the work of propaganda servers and various initiatives supported by the Russian Federation. I ask you this because, as Prime Minister, you have a constitutional and other legal obligation to protect the sovereignty of the Czech Republic and the security of its citizens. So if you have registered such propaganda activities supported from Russia, my question is this: How do you intend to ensure that the citizens of the Czech Republic have an overview of these servers, these initiatives? For example, some media have already taken up the task and publish some of these addresses on their pages for their readers or listeners or viewers, such as the weekly Echo, the Free Forum, in Reflex, I have the impression that I have read some such information on Czech television. I would like to ask you, for example, if the government is not going to draw up such a list and post it on its website and keep it updated as one of the defense options you would provide to our citizens. The second thing I want to ask is whether you are preparing to control the expenditure of individual chapters of the state budget managed by individual ministries so that it cannot happen that the Czech taxpayers' money is paid for precisely the activities that are managed from the Kremlin against the sovereignty of our country and against the security of its citizens. As an example, I mention the magazine Artěk, which was published here, and let it be to the praise and honour of the Minister of Culture that this support has been stopped. These are my questions, and I thank you in advance for answering them. I understand that we are in the context of complex things that, perhaps, cannot be said to the fullest here, but I think the way I put them, I could get the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u27	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u28	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, of course, in relation to what is happening in Ukraine, with the crisis that has taken place there, there is an information war going on in Europe as well. At this point, it is important that citizens of the Czech Republic also have access to unbiased, maximum objective information, which naturally the government cannot do directly, because there are no government media in our country intended to provide information to citizens. The media market is private, for the most part private, for a certain part it has a public character. As far as public media are concerned, even there is no direct influence on public media by the government. Indirect influence may apply The Chamber of Deputies by electing councils that exercise certain supervision over the activities of public television, public radio or Czech press offices. So the government cannot respond directly, but we are taking part in the debate that is being held on this subject, is conducted at European Union level, is, after all, also conducted at the level of the Czech Government, and our aim is that, in terms of the functioning and activity of the Government, we do not give any excuses and reasons for our actions to be misinterpreted, to inform citizens openly, on time, objectively about everything that the government is doing in the context of the crisis that is taking place in Ukraine. And I must say that this responsibility is recognised by the European institutions, and there is an effort to coordinate Mrs Mogherini, the High Representative for Foreign Policy, so that European institutions act very actively in terms of providing objective information to European Union citizens in the context of, for example, the crisis that is taking place in Ukraine. Thus, it is an effort to coordinate the procedures of individual governments within the European Union. I think, above all, it is the responsibility of those who work in the media. It is the responsibility of the public media, but it is also the responsibility of private media, which operates on the media market in the Czech Republic, so as not to be subject to any disinformation, to not be subject to disinformation pressure, and to do its work in a responsible way, that is to say, to work with verified sources and to try to actually verify the information they provide to citizens before they are provided to citizens. The fact that there is an attempt to influence this public debate in some way in the Czech Republic, this follows, say, from the structure of information that provides some especially internet servers that have Czech sites or which are set up and operated here in the Czech Republic. There I think the influence is the most visible in the structure of information as provided. But if we look at the news of public media or private, the vast majority of private media in the Czech Republic, then I believe that there is quite a great deal of effort for an objective approach to what is taking place in Ukraine. I do not think that the discourse, the public debate that is being held here in the Czech Republic, has been tampered with in some way through some major stream of information that would spread important media that have a significant share in the Czech media market. But I'm sure the situation isn't easy. It puts great demands on citizens, too, to perceive the seriousness of the source, to perceive the credibility of the source from which they receive information. I think this is probably the most complex in virtual space on social networks, that a number of information looks like verified, serious and only after a more detailed study after its origin can a citizen come to a more objective view of whether it is true or really just misinformation that has been deliberately released into virtual space, and very often it is not possible to find out by simple study. I want to assure you that the Government of the Czech Republic, within its competence in the security field, is trying to monitor this situation and to analyse this situation, or to draw the attention of government authorities if it turns out that some of the information sources in the Czech Republic are subject to pressure or manipulation from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u29	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the Member for an additional question. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u30	Thank you, too. Let me just say that I asked if the government on its website is willing to post a list of those servers or addresses from which this Russian propaganda flows. Secondly, whether the Prime Minister will control the expenditure of individual ministries so that their own money cannot be used against the citizens of the Czech Republic by supporting precisely these propaganda activities. But also about how you ended up, Prime Minister. So we have the Security Information Service. In the annual public report available to all in Chapter 2.3 of the Counter-intelligence activity, the number of intelligence officers under diplomatic cover was extremely high in the Russian diplomatic mission in 2013. It is also supplemented by newsletters who travel to the Czech Republic separately as tourists, experts, academics, entrepreneurs. One major priority of the Russian Federation is the consolidation, expansion of influence capacities in the Czech Republic. They aim to obtain information among journalists, members of parliamentary political parties, civil servants, lobbyists, various employers' organisations, employees. So the BIS clearly describes that there are risks, the information collects and analyzes and evaluates them. And now it's up to the government to do something about them, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u31	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u32	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to assure you that the government has taken a decision or is about to take a decision that should strengthen the ability of the security services in the Czech Republic to monitor possible risks. This also applies to the Security Information Service, and I assume that in a short time the government should be dealing with a specific proposal on how to strengthen the capacity of the Security Information Service. I do not rule out, of course, that we will also have a debate on other security services set up in the Czech Republic in order to protect citizens from possible security risks. And, of course, to be able to monitor activities carried out by other states in the Czech Republic with some intention - either to harm the Czech Republic or to harm its political or economic interests. So we certainly don't want to underestimate the situation here. But at the same time, I would also like to point out that the current monitoring shows that the media that can be suspected of some possible influence of Russian propaganda - and I must say, indeed, they can be suspected, because it is very difficult to define by legislative means - form a marginal part of our media scene. It is a marginal part of the media scene and it is very difficult to distinguish it from, say, presentations and certain marginal, perhaps sometimes extreme political views. Because even if we look at the political scene in the Czech Republic, it largely follows the diversity of voices and opinions that appear in our media, and it is very difficult to distinguish situations where this media merely conveys the political views that appear here in the Czech Republic, from the fact that they mediate political views that, for example, only appear in Russia and try to spread to the Czech environment in some way. So only assurance that the government is taking concrete steps to ensure that our security services have sufficient capacity and can devote themselves to the work they should do to increase the security of citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another interview, this time on the sixth, Mr Leo Luzar, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the agreement of the Czech Republic and the USA on missile defense. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u34	Dear Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, these days five years have passed since the conclusion of the agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the United States of America on missile defense. I would like to read Article 2, the purpose of this Treaty. The purpose of this Agreement is to examine the possibility and method of establishing cooperation, involvement in joint research, development, testing, direct industrial cooperation, including mutual technology sharing, production, deployment and support of agreed integrated defence elements against ballistic missiles launched against the territory or armed forces of the Contracting Parties or their allies. In Article 2.2. This agreement will provide a framework for the narrowest possible involvement of the Czech Republic in the system programme and provide the Czech Republic, both government and industry, with a deeper insight into the system program from which both parties will benefit. This agreement will also promote and allow fair opportunities for the involvement of the industry of the Czech Republic and the United States of America in the programme of the system. So much for the purpose of this agreement. I ask, Prime Minister, how far this purpose is being fulfilled, or what businesses, in what financial volume this international agreement is being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u35	I thank Mr Luzar. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u36	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, in 2008, three international treaties were signed that were related to the US administration's plan to place elements of missile defense in the Czech Republic, namely an element in the form of a radar station. It was therefore an agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States on the establishment of a US missile defense radar station in the Czech Republic. It was also an agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States on the legal status of the armed forces of the United States present in the territory of the Czech Republic. These agreements, and I will now mention these two agreements, had the character of presidential treaties in the Czech Republic. In order to enter into force, the approval of both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic and ratification by the President of the Republic was needed. The contracts were signed on 8 July 2008, respectively. September 19, 2008. They were then approved in the Senate and were withdrawn from the Chamber of Deputies in March 2009 and, in view of the decision of the United States of mid-September 2009, no missile defense radar was continued in the approval procedure and both contracts did not enter into force. That's two contracts out of the three that were made. The third international treaty was, the treaty was directly linked to the issue of the construction of American missile defense. It was an agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the United States on cooperation in missile defence. The aim of this contract was to adapt the framework of cooperation between various Czech government and non-governmental entities on the project of American missile defense. The Agreement was signed in October 2008. It entered into force on the basis of an exchange of notes in November 2009. I must say that I do not now have detailed information on the extent to which the contract has been fulfilled in the past five or six years. I have general information that this agreement has had some positive impact on direct cooperation between US agencies, which deal with research and development not only in the field of missile defence, and Czech, especially higher education entities. As far as more detailed information is concerned, I am prepared to provide it on the basis of this oral information so as to obtain more detailed information from the relevant departments, especially from the Department of Defence, probably the Department of Education, on the basis of this agreement and on the effects of this cooperation on science and research in the territory of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Luzar has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u38	Thank you for that promise, Prime Minister. I will expect your answer in this matter precisely because this contract is linked or is directly generically linked to the other two that have not been implemented. I also consider it necessary to say that its validity, which is in this Treaty for 25 years, should not be revised if the purposes of this Treaty have not been fulfilled. If necessary, I would ask the Government to deal with this and, if necessary, to denounce this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u39	I thank Mr Luzar. The Prime Minister is not interested in an additional answer. Thank you. Let's move on. Mr Martin Novotný will now intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on electronic records of sales and its technical aspects. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u40	Dear Prime Minister, in the past interventions, Mr. Finance Minister Babiš and I have discussed the issue of the cost of introducing electronic records of sales to particularly small and small businessmen. Minister Babiš has repeatedly relativized these costs. He specifically stated that there would be no or absolutely minimal. And I even quote him. At one point he said: "I repeat again - it is not a register. It's an existing cash register, for example, here in our bar or whatever it is, a buffet that just connects with the financial office and gets a number, that's all. [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] I don't know what's funny about that." Then the Minister of Finance offered to hold a seminar to explain to all interested parties how to attach such a cash register to the Ministry of Finance. [[15.20 hours]] I visited the cafeteria here. Today, the miniaturization goes by a mile, the device fits in my pocket. These ladies have an ordinary solar calculator. So I wanted to ask the Prime Minister if, like the Finance Minister, he believes that such a device can be linked to the Treasury Department, that he's going to print some documents out of it. I am aware that I do not have those stressed supernatural abilities that the Minister of Finance has. I'm the ordinary individual. But I've been trying all morning, and I haven't even connected to the Internet with the calculator, and I haven't even printed anything out of it, no proof. And since I don't want to disrespect your office with this interpelling, and it's clear to me that nothing like this is possible and that you're probably going to give me the truth about this, I really want to ask you what you're going to do as Prime Minister to make sure that the Ministry of Finance and, in particular, his head, Minister Babiš presents relevant arguments on electronic sales records, not such nonsense and nonsense as the last time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u41	I thank Mr Novotný for his intervention and ask the Prime Minister for his reply. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u42	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, perhaps one additional piece of information that I have received in recent days. This Croatian model of electronic sales record is not only about to inspire the Czech Republic in Europe, but recently the government in Slovenia has adopted a decision similar to that made by our government and has decided to implement an electronic record of sales system in Slovenia, which also inspires the Croatian system. That means we're not the only country that thinks and thinks that way. As regards what is needed in the electronic record of sales, it is primarily an electronic device capable of communicating over the Internet. So obviously if you couldn't connect to the Internet through your calculator, it's because it's not an electronic device that, of the nature of the thing, would be able to communicate on the Internet, but such a device will in any case be needed to register electronic sales. It is also true that we are not going to restrict the shape of this device. I believe that such a solution that we are voting for is more modern, technologically advanced and more effective than, in my view, the registration cash register system, which we tried to implement about ten years ago and whose implementation has reached a rather advanced stage before the Act on the introduction of registration cash registers in the Czech Republic has been abolished. The register was somewhere around 20 thousand. at cost, today's solution should be available for units of thousands of crowns. Of course, it will also be possible to upgrade existing cashiers to record sales and those upgrade costs could be part of already concluded service contracts. It is therefore the case that taxpayers who, in a number of cases, issue only hand-written documents today, do not have any cashiers, should acquire such electronic devices that will be connected to the Internet. The electronic device should be able to record sales and should be able to print in conjunction with the printer the required form of proof of the execution of this transaction and, at the same time, there should be an online reporting of these transactions to the Ministry of Finance server. As we were informed, the basic cash register for the smallest sellers fully prepared for the record of sales in Croatia could be purchased from the amount of about 6 thousand. CZK, or it was possible to use a complex solution including data connection and the rental moved from about 500 crowns a month. This is information that can be communicated on the basis of experience that has been realized in Croatia. With regard to the description of the project we are preparing, he is counting on several basic principles. Our goal is an open solution without limitation from the point of view of the hardware and software used. Therefore, we do not count against the classic registration cash registers with mandatory certification. The goal is to make it a simple and fast solution that should work in online mode 24 hours a day 7 days a week. The aim is to minimise the administrative burden and costs of entrepreneurs, to minimise the slowdown or reduction of business in a particular field, but also to minimise the costs of the state, but not at the expense of the administrative burden of entrepreneurs. Of course, our goal is also to involve the public in the form of a receipt lottery. The aim is, of course, through all these measures to straighten the business environment in the Czech Republic, i.e. improve the situation of honest-paying entrepreneurs, and the aim is also, of course, to improve the tax revenue of the State, i.e. strengthen taxpayers' tax discipline. We therefore expect that cash sales for sales of goods and services will be subject to registration. The recipient of the sale will be obliged to report the sales in real-time electronically in advance in a manner defined in advance to the financial administration. This will be part of the automatic system based on the relevant software. On the basis of this report, the Financial Administration generates a unique code and sends it back to the recipient of the sales and the recipient of the sales has an obligation to state this code on the document to be issued to the customer. So that's the basic system that will make electronic sales records work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u43	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u44	Dear Prime Minister, it's more of a supplementary statement. Your answer, I think, from the point of view of those figures, in terms of those arguments, was relevant. I have an idea of the technical requirements and economic requirements of the implementation of such a system. It is, of course, a question of our political opinion, how do we evaluate whether the burden created by this is bothering and whether the contribution to the state budget for change will somehow be interesting and we will put it on a bowl of scales. I merely wanted to draw your attention as Prime Minister to the level of argument that was discussed in the Chamber of Deputies about a few weeks ago in the same place, and to ask you to in some way ensure that this level of discussion is no longer there, that the public receives relevant information and not such complete nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u45	I thank Mr Novotný. The Prime Minister will probably not want to respond, and we will proceed to another interview, when Mr Radim Holeček will interpel the Prime Minister on the matter of Janov's Litvínov housing estate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u46	vážený Prime pan, as a Member elected to the Chamber of Deputies for the Ústecký Region, I am addressing you with an interview on the petition of some 1,600 inhabitants of the Litvínov estate Janov addressed to the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic. Petenti, the decent and orderly inhabitants of Genoa, who obviously and rightly feel threatened in my opinion, describe the sharp and still difficult situation and propose concrete immediate and long-term measures. These measures should lead to an improvement in the situation in the short term and to a systemic resolution in the long term. In the media, I read that you responded to this petition by discussing the unhappy situation in Genoa with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, along with the Minister for Human Rights. [[15.30 hours]] It is certainly positive that the government has approved the Roma Integration Strategy for 2015 to 2020 and proposes the development of a new strategy to combat social exclusion for 2016 to 2020. However, I am seriously concerned that this strategy will not solve the acute unhappy situation in Genoa. Moreover, it is clear that the inhabitants of other cities have similar problems as in Genoa, and I have also seen civil activity in the defence of decent housing in Jirkov, Klášterec nad Ohří and Chomutov. I therefore ask you in this context what specific and, above all, rapid and effective assistance the decent and orderly citizens will be provided by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u47	Thank you, Mr Holečka. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u48	Thank you. Dear Member, honourable Members, I do not want to talk too much about how the situation took place at Genoa's estate, and why today's situation is what it is. I think it was mainly caused by the inappropriate and disadvantageous privatisation of the housing fund here and subsequent speculations with local real estate over the past 20 years. This created the social structure of the population, which is a problem at the moment, and a classic socially excluded locality is created here. I want to talk very briefly about what happened in the past year and what we would like to do in Genoa, but also other localities of this type. I want to say that last year, in response to these problems, the Police of the Czech Republic implemented security measures "Byty Genov" in the first half of 2014, which were subject to increased checks to eliminate burglary in residential apartments, repeated burning of waste in these apartments and to check compliance with legal conditions in terms of fire protection by owners and managers of selected houses. At the same time, another measure was taken by the Police of the Czech Republic, "Kabely Janov," whose aim was to eliminate the increased idea of the theft of cables from elevator shafts in the locality of Litvínov - Janov. Of course, it is not only possible to look for solutions to the current situation in repressive measures by the Police of the Czech Republic, but mainly in well-coordinated and long-run local policies. At this point, we have agreed to try to assist local authorities in analysing the situation of planning and practical implementation of the solution within the Social Inclusion Department, which is part of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic. We are trying to make sure that there is a solution that includes all the important areas: security, education, housing, employment, social and family policy. The so-called coordinated approach to socially excluded localities has been prepared. In the framework of a coordinated approach, significant funding from the European Union from the 2014 to 2020 programme will be directed to the various cities involved in cooperation. This method of work should bring a relatively large amount of money from European Union funds to municipalities and their partners. At present, preparations are underway for the announcement of calls for eleven first cities. This means what we can do specifically is use European money to improve situations in these socially excluded localities. The cities involved include Litvínov, where intensive cooperation with the Social Inclusion Department was started a month ago. Work is ongoing to develop a strategic plan, which solves, among other things, the situation in the Janov estate. Financial resources will then be available for its implementation in the context of a coordinated approach. At the same time, the Human Rights Section staff of the Office of the Government have been intensively discussing the setting up of cooperation with the city's leadership for a month. There has been agreement on the objectives and timetable of the work and a common procedure has also been agreed to address the current housing problems at the Janov estate. It is also in cooperation with the city, with the owners of the apartments, which are mainly the housing cooperative Krušnohor and the company CPI. A plan for the development of a housing estate, which also envisages the development of social and crisis housing, the expansion of social services and debt advice, the introduction of housekeepers in residential homes, the expansion of a network of crime prevention assistants, drug solutions and so on, is being prepared together. The building housing cooperative Krušnohor announced the intention to end the administration in five housing houses, which threatens the housing of about 1,500 residents of the housing estate, of which about 400 children and 150 seniors. According to my information, this situation is now being addressed in close cooperation with the city by the Human Rights Section of the Office of the Government. I want to assure you, honourable Member, that we are actually dealing with this situation, that we believe that there is a need for a comprehensive solution. At the same time, there is also a need to have sufficient resources for an active employment policy. I consider it very important that, in addition to the relevant department of the Office of the Government, which I have referred to, the Labour Office should also be active here and that active employment policy programmes should be developed in cooperation with the city in order to reduce unemployment in this socially excluded locality. I think this could also contribute to reducing social tension. As I was assured, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has sufficient resources for these specific active employment policy programmes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u50	To be honest, I expected it to be muscled into a botched privatization, but I don't ask who the political responsibility lies on. I'm asking how to solve a specific problem because I'm being approached by specific citizens from Genoa. I quote one such problem from Mr.Petr: "In Genoa there is simply a practice: A completely trouble-free house with 48 flats, one apartment was sold to a realtor, who rented it to gypsies on social benefits. That means the city's housing costs were paid directly to the realtor, and it didn't send money to the house anymore. And what's more, our lovely family swelled the house with bugs and cockroaches. Within a year, it became a dump. The price of the apartments fell from the original 250 to 300,000 to 40,000. Decent owners had to move out and they all lost money invested in their property. There was an increase in debt on the house. Ukrajinec, Turek and Kazach don't care about their property and they just make money." Prime Minister, what should I advise such people in Genoa? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u51	Thank you, Mr Holečka. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u52	Thank you. I have not really talked for too long about the causes, but first of all I have devoted myself to what we are doing and what we can do in particular. I think what is very important is that we also improve the legislative framework. As I was informed, the Ministry of Regional Development is preparing a law on real estate mediation today, which should regulate the behavior of real estate agencies in the Czech Republic. You also know that we are preparing a law on social housing, which means that in the social housing concept, we would like to prepare a system for ensuring social housing for socially vulnerable groups. And what I specifically mentioned, how we can help, is really common urban and government projects in some areas, such as the question of preventists, who work in this area, such as the question of janitors, who work within these preventive programmes in individual housing houses, and who take care to ensure that at least the elementary order in these houses is ensured in terms of the functioning of the individual families that live in these houses. These are specific projects and programmes that can work. I also mentioned here the issue of active employment policy, so that we should try to draw these people, who are mostly long-term unemployed and live in these excluded localities, into the employment project. The same applies to the field of education, because it is very important for the integration of children from these socially excluded localities, especially as regards their training for pre-school education. And even here, the government has taken some concrete measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u53	Thank you, Prime Minister. We are getting to the ninth interpellation by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. It'll be an interpellation on value added tax. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u54	Thank you for the floor. I will have a relatively short interpelation and I will ask three specific questions, and I would like three specific answers. As many of you know, VAT brings us the biggest income in the state budget. This year is forecast if memory doesn't deceive me that taxpayers will pay some 380 billion. value added tax, which is divided between public budgets in the known proportion of state, region and municipality. When we look at the three-month performance, not only is it not true and the number is lower than in 2014, but it is lower than in 2013. The Treasury says it's because it withheld VAT last year, and so they have to return it now, which means it's been detained illegally. However, last year it did not tell us when it had a beautiful budget implementation. They said it's because they said that taxes should be paid and everyone pays and look, money's already falling. At the same time, there is the Registration Treasury Act in the commentary procedure, where increased VAT collection is forecasted, and at the same time there is talk of a reduction in the VAT rate for accommodation and restaurant services with the exception of alcohol. [[15.40 hours]] Now the three specific questions. Prime Minister, are you going to be able to lower the rate of VAT on accommodation and restaurant services with the exception of alcohol? Secondly, how many VAT payers will be affected by your planned introduction of registration cash registers? Third: How many registration cash registers will increase the VAT collection of the State in 2016, 2017 and 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u55	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u56	Thank you. Dear Member, honourable Members, perhaps for better orientation in individual figures, it is good to look at the time series of what the collection of value added tax in the first three months of recent years has been like. If I start in 2012, 42 billion crowns were collected for VAT in the first three months, 52,3 billion crowns in 2013, 60.3 billion crowns in 2014 and 51.7 billion crowns this year. Thus, in 2015, this year, the same amount was collected as that collected on value added tax for the first three months of 2013 and the amount collected was higher than the collection in each of the first three months of 2007 to 2012. This means that VAT collection in 2014 is, in principle, a historical peak in terms of statistics on the collection of value added tax in the time series, which I have mentioned here in the documents and which starts in 2007. So in 2014 it was actually a record collection of value added tax for a period of seven or eight years and in 2015, this year, is a selection at the level of 2013. Of course, I was also interested in the Ministry of Finance about why there is a decline in the collection of value added tax in the first three months of this year, which is a circus of CZK 9 billion compared to 2014. It needs to be realized that, firstly, I must say, we have not increased the value added tax, but, on the contrary, we have reduced it. I want to remind you that you no doubt know that last year we reduced value added tax to medicines, reduced VAT to books and to child irreplaceable nutrition from 15 to 10 percent, which, of course, will lead to tax payers saving and collecting less on value added tax. This is the effect that we anticipated, which was also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the relevant bill. So we have reduced the value added tax, albeit to a limited number of items, even by five percent, from 15 to ten percent, but there has been a reduction in value added tax, not to increase it, as we have been used to in previous years, when the value added tax has grown very significantly, including the socially sensitive item of medicines. Thus, there has been a reduction in value added tax. The second effect was that the Ministry of Finance implemented measures against excessive deductions at the turn of 2013 and 2014. The information I received from the Ministry of Finance based on my inquiry concerning the performance for the first two months of this year, and as a result of the retention of value added tax, and as a result of the examination of the question of the requirements for deduction of value added tax, has been optically increased by the collection of value added tax in the first months of last year, i.e. the basis was significantly higher. As far as your question is concerned about electronic sales records and what number of VAT payers this system will touch, I must say that it will touch all value added tax payers who receive cash and, in particular, touch those value added tax payers who receive cash at the premises. As you know, the law is being prepared to touch hotels in the first stage, to touch restaurant facilities in the first stage, in the second stage and retail, wholesale, and it will be the gross payers of value added tax that will be included in this system. Of course, there will be discussions about those craftsmen who do not have a permanent establishment, and of course the question is how many of them will fall into that register of electronic sales records and how many of them will be included there, but the gross VAT payers, the vast majority of VAT payers in the area of retail, wholesale and accommodation services, restaurants will fall under the system of electronic sales records. We assume that the introduction of the system should improve the tax revenue of the state by approximately CZK 10 billion per year in the year when the system will be fully applied according to the government's intention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u57	Thank you to the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister's time has run out, so I ask the Member for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u58	The Prime Minister had 16 seconds left to say: I am in favour, or I am opposed to a reduction in the VAT rate. I'm sure he'd make it. So I'm gonna ask him not to avoid answering the question. I asked you a whole different question. That's the funny thing about the interpelling. Officials prepare answers, and they don't really know what we're going to ask, or they don't often know. I didn't ask why VAT was reduced for the first three months, yet for three and a half minutes he read me the Ministry of Finance's justification, which I read on their website yesterday when they published a report on the results of the management. So we will either listen to each other at these interventions and respond to the question that has been raised, and if anyone says the Prime Minister or the Minister doesn't have the information available, he will answer it next, so I understand. They can't all have everything in their head. It's funny. You yourself estimated 3 billion blackouts at the established third VAT rate per year, which is 750 million for the first quarter, and thus explaining the blackout of 8.5 billion is just funny. I will ask the Prime Minister to answer the last question whether he is or is not in favour of reducing the rate from 21 to 15 for the services I have appointed. What is important and it has been said publicly: Will it concern everyone? We also think that this is the way the law is prepared, although the Finance Minister says: they will have an exception, they will not be involved. [[Time Warning]] . It's gonna be everybody's business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u59	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u60	Thank you. Dear Member, of course, regarding your question concerning the reduction of value added tax to restaurant services, i.e. I am referring to the sale of food and soft drinks in restaurants, so the situation in recent years has been greatly influenced in the Czech Republic by the way the rates have been regulated at European Union level. I just want to remind you that when we joined the EU, EU legislation in 2004 did not allow restaurant services to be included in the reduced rate of value added tax, we had to adjust the rate and increase VAT. We raised it to 19 percent back then. In 2009, the European directive changed, i.e. From 2009 onwards, we have the opportunity to include these services in a reduced rate of value added tax. The governments that were here before did not make this decision, i.e. they left this on their will at the basic rate of value added tax. I have verified the budgetary impact of the measure. The budgetary impact is identified by the Ministry of Finance to the extent so far by the circus half a billion to billion crowns per year. This would reduce the revenues of public budgets. I believe that this is not the dramatic impact of such a measure, and I am prepared to discuss this measure, but only in the context of how and how an electronic sales record system will be put in place so that this reduction in value added tax does not cause budgetary problems in creating the state budget in the coming years. Thus, this measure does not have a major impact on the revenues of public budgets, but in any case must be compensated for by the effect of the increased tax collection that will take place in this area of service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the state of public budgets, will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u62	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the Czech Statistical Office's notification of the outcome of the 2014 public budget deficit was published on 1 April and almost twice the deterioration compared to 2013. As much as I realize the influence of methodological changes, it is indisputable that the structural balance has deteriorated by more than CZK 20 billion, and worse, further deterioration of the structural balance will continue in 2015. [[15.50 hours]] At the same time, tax collection not only in this year's first three months, but also in the second half of last year, it lags strongly behind economic growth and consumption growth. You have answered Mr Stanjur here, giving nominal figures in individual years. But what is more important is the efficiency of tax collection, whether the rate of tax collection is consistent with the rate of economic growth and domestic consumption. And here you can see the obvious slowing down and reducing the efficiency of tax collection. The failure of the government to save on the one hand and the failure of the Minister of Tax Finance to collect on the other hand is aggravating the structural balance and, in the ongoing trend, may also jeopardise the quality of public services in the Czech Republic. I would therefore like to ask, Prime Minister, whether you are assuming a reversal of this trend and when we can look forward to a gradual improvement in the state of public budgets, or whether you are expecting permanent deterioration throughout your mandate, as we have seen it so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u63	I thank Mr Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u64	Thank you. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, I think that having a debate on the state's tax revenue will be very interesting especially in a situation where we will have had the whole first half of this year and we will have the ability to compare tax revenues in the first half of this year with the first half of last year. Indeed, tax collection, especially in the first two months of this year, has marked the one-off effects that occurred in both value added tax, I have already mentioned the issue of retention of value added tax deductions, as well as the question of pre-supply of tobacco products for excise duty on tobacco products. The frontload took place in 2014. Here I think it's also good to look at other tax revenues. And if we look, for example, at the collection of value added tax already in March, the withdrawal reached an amount that is CZK 2 billion higher than in the same period last year. If we look at corporate tax collection, it's more than seven percent year on year. With regard to the collection of excise duties, it can be expected that the impact of the frontload will decrease during the year. I would like to remind you that, in March alone, the collection of this tax was CZK 3.5 billion higher year on year. So I would like to point out that the impact of one-off VAT and excise duty on tobacco products will gradually fade over time in the State's tax revenue structure. We will have an objective view of the extent to which there is a correlation between economic growth, employment growth and tax collection, especially in the middle or at the end of the first half of this year. This will coincide with the time when we will be preparing the draft State Budget Act for next year, and naturally all these factors will have to be taken into account by the government when it prepares the draft budget. It cannot be said that the collection of all taxes would develop in a way that does not copy the development of the economy, but it can in any event be confirmed that the pre-deposit in the field of excise duty on tobacco products and tax administration operations in the field of value added tax has escalated the tax collection in year-on-year comparison, in particular as regards the first two months of this year. So much for this area. It is also true that the Statistical Office issued information on the public budget deficit last year. Deficit reached 2% of gross domestic product. According to the same information from the statistical authority, the amount of the deficit was also marked by a one-off operation consisting in the payment of approximately CZK 14 billion from the Deposit Insurance Fund. Thus, if this one-off operation had not taken place, the public budget deficit would have been below 2% of the gross domestic product. A year earlier, the deficit was about one percent. In 2012, the public budget deficit was around 4% of gross domestic product. This means, in the time series, four percent - one percent - two percent - is roughly the development of the public budget deficit in the Czech Republic. The government's aim is to keep the public budget deficit reliably below 3% of gross domestic product. This has also been defined in the Government's programming declaration. Last year, this goal was achieved because the deficit did not exceed two percent of the gross domestic product, and we still want to continue this year and the following year. The government's aim is not just a question of public budget deficits, but the government's aim is also a positive turnaround in terms of economic growth and employment. I am very pleased that, especially in terms of increasing the number of jobs, our policy is successful. According to statistics, which have also been published in recent days, the Czech Republic has the third lowest unemployment within the European Union. Less unemployment than the Czech Republic has only Germany, Austria, then we follow with relatively little distance to Austria. I think that's a very good situation. I firmly believe that the measures that the government is implementing should also contribute to the growth of the economy. The last thing I want to recall is that last year, the overall public debt in relation to gross domestic product was reduced to around 42 percent of GDP. I think that too is a very positive trend within the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u65	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Kalousek has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u66	The debt reduction was the result of a reduction in debt reserves, not an investigation. Prime Minister, you know that. Sometimes you even admit it in your public appearances. But my question was going somewhere else. This was aimed at a structural balance as the only objective indicator of the government's financial discipline. This simply deteriorated in 2014 compared to 2013 and deteriorated in 2015 compared to 2014. It's a permanent worsening trend. I'm quoting government numbers. I'm not making this up. I have allowed myself to ask, and I have not received an answer to that, whether you are expecting a change in this trend and whether you are expecting a gradual improvement in the structural balance, or whether you want to further deteriorate it throughout your mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u67	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u68	Thank you. I think it's important to recall one fact. The government's economic policy, as defined, has two main objectives. The first objective is to stabilise public budgets. The second objective is employment. We have decided to implement an economic policy that will not only focus on the parameters of the public budget deficit, but will also be aimed at promoting economic growth and promoting employment at the same time. And the government has to follow both of these targets. Of course, our goal is to gradually reduce the public budget deficit. The government's objective, which we have clearly defined, is that, in no way, this government deficit does not exceed 3% of the gross domestic product in any year. We will also do this in the light of the preparation of the budget for the next financial year. The excessive deficit procedure was terminated with the Czech Republic last year. This means that we are among the countries that meet the Maastricht criteria with regard to the deficit of public budgets. The aim of our government is that this procedure will not be renewed with the Czech Republic in any way in the coming years. As regards the reduction of the structural deficit, I think that a more pronounced reduction in the structural deficit would have to be linked to a more pronounced increase in the state's regular tax revenue. If there is a political agreement that we will be able to significantly increase the state's regular tax revenues, then I can imagine that we are able to get below one percent of the structural deficit, that is, to meet the objective that it should have, that is, gradually reducing the structural deficit as well. If a political agreement cannot be concluded to increase the state's regular tax revenues, we must also expect the structural deficit to move around this year's level in the coming years. [[16.00 hours]] If a political agreement cannot be concluded to increase the state's regular tax revenues, we must also expect the structural deficit to move around this year's level in the coming years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u69	Thank you, Prime Minister. And this was also the last response in oral interventions to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, and we will continue with the interpelations on individual members of the government in a very short time - I will hand over the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon. Before we go into the interview, allow me to present the apologies that have arrived at me. Today, from 17 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Jiří Štětina apologizes from 16 to the end of the day, Mrs Helena Válková, today between 17 and 19 apologizes to Mr Leoš Heger, today from 14.30 to the end of the meeting apologizes to Mrs Pavla Golasowská, today from 14.30 for personal David Mr Pavel Havíř apologizes, and from 17 o'clock the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka apologizes for the afternoon of the meeting for work Kasal. I am sorry, I have read this wrong - not Mr David Kasal, but Mrs Ivana Dobešová. Today, from 14.30 to the end of the meeting, Mr Jaroslav Holík, from 14.30 apologizes to Mr Miloš Babiš, from 16.30 apologizes to Mrs Jitka Chalánková for reasons of work, today for the afternoon meeting of the House for reasons of work Mr Stropnický, today between 16.30 and 19 apologizes to Mr Vlastimil Vozka, from 14 to 16.30 for reasons of work Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, from 14.30 to the rest of the day of the hearing for reasons of work, Mr Martin Plíšek, from 14.30 to 19 hours for reasons of work, for reasons of employment of Mrs Jana Pastuchová, from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for health reasons, Mr Josef Vozdecký. And from 14.30 for personal reasons, Mr. Jiří Koskuba apologizes. And now we will proceed to the interpelations as they have been drawn. The first was drawn by Mrs Olga Havlová, who intersects Minister Richard Brabec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u71	Thank you for the floor. Since the Minister of the Environment is not here today and there are a lot of questions regarding the sewerage in Jindřichov and I cannot ask additional questions to the Minister for whom citizens are waiting, I am withdrawing today's interpelation and will give it next time the Minister is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u72	Thank you, Madame. Next in line is Mr. Josef Nekl, who intersects Minister Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u73	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. Even though the Minister is not here, I am going to make the interview because he is interested not only in a small part of the citizens, but perhaps in a number throughout the Republic. Dear Minister, I am interrogating you in a problem with which my fellow citizens have approached me and which has recently been published in the press. Approximately 400,000 people in our republic, regardless of age, suffer from psoriasis, or psoriasis. This disease often makes people feel socially inferior. It is known that this disease is difficult to treat. There were a number of experiments with hormone therapy, corticosteroids or UV radiation. For many years, there have been medicines that can treat it. But they are natural products, not medicines according to the law, so they cannot be reimbursed from health insurance. A number of top dermatologists tested doktor Michaels' products with excellent results. Out of a sample of 203 people 82 percent of the treatment worked, with no symptoms after treatment was 60 percent of them. It is a gel, ointment and oil that is enough for a two-month treatment and costs CZK 2,200. If anybody has psoriasis all over their body, they'll be fine with this dose for a month. Doctors and patients have requested and have requested at least partial reimbursement from health insurance companies. So far, no positive result. I therefore ask, Minister, whether these preparations are expected to be included in preparations at least partially covered by health insurance. In conclusion, since the Minister is not here, I had an additional question, because he probably would have replied that it doesn't count yet. I have a personal experience from my immediate family that the dermatologist could not prescribe cannabis ointment for the treatment of a similar disease because it was not allowed, today it is allowed and this ointment worked perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will be answered in writing. We will proceed to the third in order, and this is Mrs Gabriela Pecková, who is intersecting Minister Robert Pelikán. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am responsible for this Chamber of Deputies in the Council of Europe for combating sexual violence against children. A year ago, in Nicosia, I had to really exert all my strength to return my reputation to the Czech Republic, because at that time the Czech Republic was the only one who didn't add his signature to the Lanzarot Convention. Finally, Mr. Ambassador Boček signed a convention in Strasbourg in September, but of course it needs to be ratified by the House. In January, she actually made it to the House for just a few hours of convention, with reservations. Shortly thereafter, however, the government was taken back with the fact that reservations no longer need to be applied. Since then, we have no longer reached the House, unlike, for example, the regulation of whale hunting, which is certainly important, but I still think our children are really more important. In 14 days we are going to Strasbourg again to the Council of Europe and I will be asked when the Czech Republic will join civilized countries and fight for its children against being sexually abused. So when, Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u76	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. And now I'm going to ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, very soon. At the same time, I apologize for all the delays. First of all, it should be stressed that we have already fulfilled this agreement in substance, that is, we are prosecuting everything we have to prosecute. The government has already agreed to the ratification this time without the reservations, after we have successfully completed the last homework and we no longer have to make that reservation. I am sending a letter to the Prime Minister these days asking him to submit a treaty for ratification to Parliament. So, really, in the next few days, this is going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u78	Thank you, Minister. I ask whether the Member wants an additional question. It's not like that. Well, in that case, let's move on. I will now ask Mrs Alena Nohavová with her interpellation to Minister Svatopluk Němeček. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u79	Thank you for the floor. My question, Minister, concerns outpatient spa care. The disposal indication system, the list, was replaced by a new indication list, which mitigated the worst restrictions. At the same time, the amendment of paragraph 33 (2) introduced a new, in my opinion, non-constitutional procedure relating to the contribution spa care carried out as so-called. outpatient spa care. The ministry's opinion is that the current legislation is only being clarified and that, as with any other bed care, the health care provider must ensure hospitalization of the patient as well as any other hospital care provider. Although I understand that the spa needs money to survive, I have to say that I consider this to be discriminatory, as it makes it impossible, for example, for the citizens of the spa cities to take part in the spa in their city, and it is also discriminatory that even though the accommodation and meals are fully covered by the client, it does not have the right to choose the facilities or the level of these services. This rule makes sense in complex medical care, but it is obviously excess in the allowance care. For allowance care, medical reasons are given exclusively for medical procedures, which are also covered by health insurance. However, no medical reasons for accommodation or for eating at the spa have ever been given and I am convinced that they are not anymore. The amendment to this provision in the framework of the amendment is certainly not a refiner of the change, but it is in fact a fundamental change in the previous rules for the provision of spa allowance care. And that's why I'm asking who and why suggested this fundamental change. [[Time limit notification]] Secondly, what are the medical reasons for such a fundamental change. Thirdly, how you will address the issue of conflict with constitutional rights, where the normal commercial service, accommodation and catering which the client pays for itself is not part of the therapeutic indication, without legal reason you entrust only one subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u80	I thank you, Madame, and I ask my colleagues who will come after you to respect the time that is measured for the interpelation. I will now ask Mr Jan zahradník, who also intersects Minister Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u81	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I address Minister Svatopluk Němeček with an interpellation which he served last meeting, but at that time the Minister was excused. But given the urgency of the subject, I will read it and then ask for a written answer. My interpelation concerns the following problem. According to the information I have from children's homes in the South Bohemia Region, there is an increase in the number of clients of these facilities who need the care of a child psychiatrist. For example, there are six children in the Children's Home in Boršov nad Vltavou, four children in Písek, one child in Zvíkovské Podhradí, four children in Humpolec, ten children in Senožaty, ten children in Korytě, two in Nová Ves u Chotěbora, six children in Radany, twenty children in Žíchovec, seven and twelve children in Volyn. In order to solve these children's problems, it is not enough, according to one of the directors of a child's home, to prescribe medication. Nurses in children's homes need advice on how to work with the individual. Sometimes it is necessary to transport the child to a psychiatrist at the time of his or her attack, which the children's home staff cannot stop. However, existing pedopsychics do not have time for these services. They are then examined once every three to four months, which is insufficient for the work of children's homes. In the whole Republic, there are 200 doctors with children's psychiatry in order to fill the number of seats in the existing network. But even this number does not fully address the situation. There are concerns that the Ministry of Health is trying to limit the possibility of obtaining a testimonial in the field of pediatric psychiatry or completely abolish it. I therefore refer to the Minister with the following questions: Is it true that the Ministry of Health really intends to restrict or abolish pedopsychiatric tests? How does the Ministry of Health intend to address the overall problem of the shortage of pediatric psychiatrists? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask Mr Zdeněk Ondráček with his interpelling to Minister Dan Ťok on the monitoring of the field hamster. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, the last time you weren't, he gave us the title of entertainment and I couldn't turn my colleagues away from discussing the subject here. I know you've taken over the Ministry, which includes ŘSD, which is one big black hole, and, of course, on public procurements, everyone likes to restock. I have one particular thing. Construction of the R 49 expressway. In the locality Třebětice and Alexovice, Ekoteam from Hradec Králové carried out monitoring of field hamster in 2014. They charged CZK 2,382 248 for this praiseworthy activity. I have a simple question for you: does it seem economically adequate to spend such funds on monitoring a field hamster in one location? Then the second question: Do you have an overview of how many similar contracts the company has processed for ŘSD as a whole and what is the total amount of money? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask Minister Dan Ťok for an answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. It is, of course, a thing that is quite unpleasant to me, too. However, if we want to continue building that R49 expressway, it was a condition of granting a building permit. I'd like to introduce you to the whole development of this case. The contract for monitoring the occurrence of a field hamster on one specific section of the planned construction R 49 has been checked by the Road and Motorway Directorate of the Czech Republic, from the moment the supply is asked to today's state, when part of the work is taken over from the supplier, but part of the implementation is not finished. An independent assessment of the Nature Conservation Agency is prepared for part of the supply, namely the field hamster monitoring study. This assessment will not be charged to the Road and Motorways Directorate of the Czech Republic. This assessment will include not only the evaluation of written materials submitted by Ekoteam, but will also include a proposal for a further procedure on the occurrence of field hamster on the planned route R 49. The Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic found serious errors and shortcomings in the contract. Based on this, a meeting took place with the supplier's representatives and a consensus was found that the supplier, Ekoteam, would complete the missing part of the study, so he would complete it and deliver the study completely in the Czech language. At the same time, the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic requires a detailed schedule of work actually carried out on this contract and its award. The Road and Motorway Directorate of the Czech Republic will, in agreement with the supplier of the contract, reduce the price, taking into account the shortcomings in the work provided and the performance actually surrendered, as well as the part of the contract not yet realized. Part of the originally requested delivery was not only the monitoring presented in the form of a study, which, in addition to describing the current state, has a proposal for measures including its implementation, but also a follow-up monitoring of success. [[16.20 hours]] And now some facts. A contract called 4901 Hulín-Fryšták, monitoring the presence of a field hamster in the locality of Třebětice-Alexovice in 2014, was commissioned in demand proceedings. The date of approval of the contract was 11. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 9-2014 termination of the contract 30. 11.2014 the contract was prepared by the selected contractor Dr. natural case Vladimír Ludvík, Ekoteam, the contract for ŘSD of the Czech Republic was concluded by Master Soňa Křítková, responsible for the proceedings, and part of the contract for the provision of services is an award-winning list of works. The price of the work was CZK 1 968 800 without VAT, which is CZK 2 282 248 with VAT. Information on field hamster monitoring issues is publicly available on the website of ŘSD CR, including relevant documents. Status of the administrative procedure for granting an exemption from the specially protected species of game hamster. Decision of the Ministry of Environment of 2. 3. The decision of the Regional Authority of the Zlín Region was repealed and, at the same time, the proceedings on this issue were terminated, i.e. the original request of the ŘSD for an exemption only in the locality of Třebětice-Alexovice, a so-called small exception. To date, it can be noted that the abovementioned decision to abolish a small exemption has become legal. The Road and Motorway Directorate will therefore now submit a new request for exemption for the entire construction of the R49 Hulín-Fryšták, a so-called big exception. As for the further question about how many such contracts there are from this company, I am unable to answer that now, but I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that I have ordered the Directorate of Roads and Motorways to publish all contracts, so that in a really short period of time all contracts should be available on the website of the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic, so you will be able to look into these contracts. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I can answer your question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u86	Thank you. Will there be an additional question? Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u87	Thanks again for the word. Minister, thank you for your answer. This is a typical example of why we are building the most expensive motorway in Europe. I think there might be a way to get a license for a science college, and maybe monitoring could be done by students. You'd give money to college, to students, if there's such a thing, and at least money would be well invested. Monitoring as such can certainly be expected in the future during the construction of other roads and motorways. I would like to tell you that I am from the region of eastern Bohemia and we will be exhibiting speed D11 and a colleague told me that there is a locality where there is a strange shy and endangered animal, a peon of the common underkrkonošský, and that we will probably also have to monitor it. I found out there's no such animal, but he said it's okay that he's definitely gonna do that study for two million. I have an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u88	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. Ask a question and the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u89	If I understand what you're saying, has the Nature Agency already done the monitoring?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u90	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u91	Mr President, honourable Members, I will take this from the back. Yes, part of the contract was executed, and we're gonna want a significant discount from the other part. The contract doesn't have that value. I agree with you that today we are a little bit in the grip of all possible initiatives that throw pitchforks into contracts. For example, at the construction of the Jeze, which I will talk about further, when navigating the Elbe near Děčín, we have specially protected species of salmon and beaver. Not many people saw him there, but he could show up and we'll have to deal with it in some way. Thank you also for the subject, perhaps giving students this work will be cheaper and more effective. The fact is, it looks a little bit like a firecracker sometimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u92	Thank you, Minister. I will now ask Mrs Jana Hnyková with her interview with Minister Michaela Marksová on the matter of the audit at the Labor Office associated with the appeal of the Director of the Labour Office. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Have a good afternoon, everyone. Madam Secretary, I have to get back to the past. On 24 October 2014, you called off the director of the Labor Office, Mrs. Marie Bílková. It was a big surprise for all of us, both coalition and opposition MPs. I must remind you once again that the cooperation with the Director was excellent and I am personally very pleased that I have met her personally and I consider her to be a real professional. One of the reasons you put forward for Mrs Bílková's appeal was to be the audit that was carried out at your ministry. You mentioned this audit not only in your press release, but also at the press conference and at the meeting of the Social Policy Committee. You also promised that you would immediately familiarise the committee members with the outcome of this audit. However, it has not yet happened. You know, this audit is for me, and I'm sure it's not just for me that it's a secret. I therefore want to ask you the following questions: At what stage was the audit at the time of the appeal of Director Bílková, what are the results of this audit and when this audit will be delivered to the members of the Committee on Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u94	I also thank you, Madame, and I will ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u95	Hello, Mr Vice-President, Members. As for the audit, it wasn't an audit, but it was an inquiry into the personnel organizational area that was carried out by our internal audit department, and it's quite possible that I used the wrong name when I talked about it. As far as I know, this document has been sent to all members and members of the Committee. If that's the case, we can still make a deal. I think it was sent as soon as I talked about it. If not, it's a mistake and we'll do it. This investigation took place from 28 August and was completed, I think, sometime in October. With regard to the results, in summary, basically our internal audit department, based on the documents it received at the time, was not able to figure out exactly how exactly the Directorate-General of the Labour Office works because either we did not receive the required documentation at all or the documentation received did not comply with public administration standards. There are a number of specific findings, for example, that they gave us pictures of the day that showed that they were loaded to 300 and 350 %, from 340 seats at the Directorate-General of the Labour Office there were 47 leaders, where many senior employees had one subordinate, which is also quite absurd. And then, for example, it didn't correspond completely to the employee's assignment when cross-checking was done in the work catalogue, work-related activities, or a full picture of the day. Sometimes it just wasn't right at all. And there's a whole series of findings like that. As far as I know, we sent it to everyone. If not, we'll send.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u96	Thank you. It seems that the Member will ask an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u97	Madam Secretary, I didn't get it. Could you send it back to us one more time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u98	Thank you. Will you respond, Madam Secretary? No. The materials will be sent. Thanks. I will now ask Mrs Marta Semelová with her interpellation to Minister Marcel Chládek on the future of children's homes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u99	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have been approached by some representatives of infant formulas and children's homes who express concerns about the future of these facilities. It is true that this area is considerably fragmented. Some of the facilities fall under the Ministry of Health, mentioned infant formulas, children's homes then into the Ministry of Education, other facilities under the Ministry of Health. [[16.30 hours]] Now the changes are coming. Of some prepared materials, e.g. This is the thesis of the Family Support Act, memorandum on cooperation between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, it follows that children's homes for children under the age of three should no longer be a medical facility, but they should be a kind of residential facility and fall into the MPSV gesture. There are similar concerns among children's children's homes for older children, not only those children's homes with schools that exist, but others do not agree with it, that is to say they do not agree with the transfer under MPSV and insist that they remain under the Ministry of Education. I would like to stress that the children's home has three basic functions: education, education and social, special educators work here. If they go under MPSV, the educational function will be compromised. It's for example. for kangaroos where only social workers and others work, but not educators, and this would reduce the standard. I would therefore like to ask whether these concerns are justified, whether the preparations for these changes are actually taking place and whether, as Minister of Education, you have signed the memorandum and the theory that children's homes would actually be transferred to the MPSV. Finally, the last question of how and whether there is a discussion with children's home workers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u100	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u101	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Semelová, the panic is premature for one simple reason, because I have not signed anything at all, neither cooperation nor memorandum, with the fact that I have not signed the memorandum on the ground that it has not been consulted with me and that it has not been consulted with our workers. Now it's in the phase where we agreed with the secretary. By the way, she was just telling me that even in her wildest dream, she didn't think she was interrupting or closing anything. Well, it's just for the rest of your life, it's not even in your dreams. And now it's in a phase where it's true that it's shattered between three resorts. We want to agree not to let the workers run between the departments and between the offices and spend the whole day synchronizing our activities. The care should be provided so that it makes sense, and I don't know yet that there's been any suggestion of any transfer under any other ministry. In any case, we want to create the thesis that will go through the expert debate and discussion where the directors of the said facilities will be invited to comment on what is essential that is yet to be prepared. It is difficult to comment on something now when it is at a stage where we said that we would not be addressing the memorandum at all, because there is a need for expert debate and discussion. So now that I have information from the secretary, there are some theories that will be forwarded to us, and there will be a professional debate over them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u102	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the honourable Member will have an additional question. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u103	Not a question, just a request. If there are any round tables or anything like that, I would like to attend if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u104	Thank you. The Minister will still respond to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u105	Thank you. As is my good custom, I like to invite Members to round tables, so your wishes are already fulfilled in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u106	I will now request Mrs Margita Balaštíková's intervention. He's got an interview with Minister Jan Mládek, and it's an interview on the sale of state property outside the public auction. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u107	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, I was rather surprised by the information from the public media that the state is quietly selling its assets outside the public auction. It is said that state-owned companies in liquidation, without the approval of the Ministry of Finance, that they have been transferred and sold assets already for hundreds of millions of crowns. This is contrary to Act No. 92/1991 Coll. On the basis of the measures taken by the Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Kuba č. 13 of May 2013 the assets are allegedly removed from liquidation companies to other state-owned enterprises for which there are no similar restrictions on the handling of the assets and are sold as unnecessary outside the auction. However, the law states that each undertaking is to be liquidated separately, not through another undertaking. In doing so, there are situations where the contract for the transfer of property is signed for both Contracting Parties by the same person. It seems that the government in which Mr. Kuba was a minister has made law in this case a drawing harmonica and has modified its interpretation to satisfy interests other than those of our state. The details are also given in the Law of 28. 3rd of this year. Please state, Minister, whether you know about these facts and what measures you have taken. Since the MIT procedure is publicly challenged, I also ask you to check whether the adoption of Measure No 13 there has been no circumvention of the law and if you find any doubts as to whether you should abolish the measure. Furthermore, I ask that you ensure without delay that the processes mentioned above are re-checked to the MIT from the date of issue of Measure No. 13, the Supreme Audit Office, and subsequently published the results, including those who have enriched themselves by this procedure, and those who may be held responsible for violating the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u108	I thank you and will now ask Mr Radim Holeček with his interpellation to Minister Robert Pelikán. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u109	Dear Minister, I would like to interpel you with this on the implementation of a new judicial complex in the regional town of Ústí nad Labem. 23 days. 10. 2014 I have already intersected your predecessor, Mrs Válková, who told me in writing at the time that for 2014 this project will be implemented 50 million, for this year 350 million. and for 2016 then 400 mil. Crowns. You will understand, then, that on the basis of these data, I have obtained the legitimate impression that the new judicial complex in Ústí nad Labem is slowly becoming a reality, but surely. Now, after four months, I learn that - I quote: "In view of the fact that the action is not yet registered and that the funds will not be used this year, their use in the wage area, including related expenditure, is proposed." So many quotes from the relevant government report, which was 30. 3. published in an article on one of the web servers. If I understand the content of this communication correctly, Minister, you intend to do so for 350 million. CZK originally intended for this year to implement the project of the new judicial complex in Ústí nad Labem, to use for the financial coverage of outstanding salaries resulting from the agreement of the Justice Department with judges and prosecutors? If so, then I would like to say to you that, as a Member elected for the Ústí Region, I fundamentally disagree with this, and I would like to ask you the following questions: 1. Do you personally know the conditions in which judges of the Regional Court in Ústí nad Labem are currently forced to perform their demanding work? 2. What does the information "action is not yet registered" mean, and why is it so? 3. When will this event be registered and especially when can we really expect the implementation of the project for the construction of a new judicial complex in Ústí nad Labem? And the last question: how will the financing of this project be ensured if the 350 million is actually consumed? earmarked for this year in the framework of state pay compensation with judges and prosecutors? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u110	Thank you for the questions asked, and I'll ask the Minister to answer them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u111	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take this quite briefly. Yes, I am aware of the truly disastrous conditions under which the Ústí Regional Court is now in operation. Even as an attorney, I had to sue many times. It's not good for the lawyers, either. I know that trial well, and I know how horrible it is. I also know that every major flood carries files from the basement. If it doesn't make it, we're done with the shredder deadlines in the courthouse and so on and so on and so forth. [[16.40 hours]] There was a long-term delay in the project. When we came to the office with the former Minister, the situation was that the project was unrealistic, it was overpriced, it was much more expensive than what was being budgeted and, at the same time, it exceeded real needs. Recently, I think that in October, the new President of the Regional Court, President Dörfel, took up the task very actively in cooperation with us, and we are trying not to say catch up on the delay, because we are not going to be able to do that, but at least not to increase them further. So at this point, I've already seen the first version of the new investment plan. Somehow, he's adjusting according to his comments. We will also have to have this assessed by an external entity, because it is such a unique construction that it needs to be really clear about how much it has to cost. It's not easy at all. But I'm pretty sure the event will finally be registered this year. At the same time, I saw some construction schedule as prepared in the project, and it counted on five years. One of my comments was that I would like the timetable to be considerably reduced. I told you it took five years to build Hoover Dam, but this is, as far as I know, a little easier. So all that's left is the question of whether or not we ate the money. Don't worry. This thing is coordinated with the Treasury Department. So the Treasury is going to have to budget the 300 million we won't use this year again in the next few years. Everything's progressing. It's moving slower than I wish, but we're doing everything we can to get this done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u112	Thank you. There won't be an additional question. In that case, we can move on. I will ask Mr. Michal Kučera to intercede for Minister Richard Brabec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u113	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Since Minister Brabec has decided to work elsewhere today, I am downloading my interview and I will keep it for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u114	Thank you. I shall now ask Mrs Markéta Adamová with her interpellation to Minister Michaela Marksová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u115	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, at one of the last meetings of the Committee on Social Policy, we were familiar with the parameters of the concept of accessible housing for persons in housing distress, i.e. only with a kind of foretaste of the Act on social housing. In the whole concept, I am concerned about a number of proposed measures and the proposals could be discussed more, but I will focus on one which I consider to be very fundamental, and this is the concrete introduction of an obligation for municipalities to have social housing in a specific number of five percent of the total housing fund of the municipality. It is already clear that most municipalities are unable to fulfil this obligation under current conditions. The proposal also envisages sanctioning municipalities which do not fulfil this obligation. My question therefore points to this obligation and to the percentage that has been determined. I wonder on what basis five percent was chosen and if any analysis was carried out and if it is certain that we really need this number. In the Czech Republic, we now have over 4 million approximately 800,000 flats, and five percent of them are 38,000, which should only be used for social purposes. This is certainly not a negligible number and I would very much like to see how this is being discussed with the municipalities and whether you will find agreement with them on this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u116	I thank you, Madame, and I will ask the Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u117	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would generally say that I believe that the Czech Republic is a civilised and relatively rich country and that we should have a so-called system here. social housing at the level of states called. Western Europe, such as Germany, Austria, Great Britain. And I see no reason not to, and I'm sorry there's actually been at least 15 years of talk about it here, and so far nothing has happened in this. And now very specifically, because, as you said, there are a number of topics. About the five percent proposed. One. At this point, we are merely at the concept, which means a kind of vision and purpose of the social housing law, and in these days ends so-called. Interdepartmental commentary, so we'll see what we get, and we'll definitely have a lot going on. Specifically, why is the proposal there at this point at five percent? We were based on international definitions and we thought that the group of persons to whom non-market rent should apply, if we want, are persons who spend more than 40 percent of their available rent income, and then we assumed that it is about every 20th person in the Czech Republic, which means that it is 20th, so that's the five percent. At the same time, it must be said that, on average, in the European Union, the non-market segment of housing is at 11 percent. So even if this number, as you've calculated the number of apartments, looks big, the five percent, even if we keep it in the future, we're still going to be far below the European Union average. And otherwise, because we are aware that municipalities do not have their own housing fund at the moment, so it is expected that municipalities will decide whether to use private owners' apartments or, for example, cooperatives or non-profit organizations or churches for social housing. The debate with the municipalities took place, the Union of Towns and Municipalities was already represented in those working groups, and of course it will still take place and will certainly be stormy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u118	I thank you and ask if the Member wishes to ask. So there's room for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u119	Thank you for your answer. I can imagine the tempest of the debate with the Union of Towns and Villages. I'm not surprised, because I have experience here from the municipal council, and I know it's really not easy, you can't even build new flats in some locality, so it's not easy to take on that obligation. In any case, I believe that this really should be designed so that social housing will really be targeted for the most necessary and really only for a small fraction of the population, because as the proposal is designed so far, I am afraid that it will affect a relatively large part of society, and I do not think that there is a way in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u120	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u121	I will add, first, that it is also still being discussed, from which municipalities higher, from what size should be given a five per cent obligation. And second of all, it may seem like we're involving too wide a population, but we're spending about 13 billion on housing benefits today, and out of that, about 13 billion, only 2.7 billion go into the so-called. hostels, to where they are actually the very poorest, and it is the most visible part of the media, but it is really a relatively small part of the total dose. And the rest is made up of so-called. a housing allowance that we already pay to actually normal people today who just don't have the market rents or who don't have the ability to pay for such high energy payments. So, in a way, we're already massively subsidizing a huge number of people in the housing sector as a state today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u122	Thank you. I will now also ask Mr Jiří Valenta with an interview with Minister Michaela Marksová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u123	Madam Secretary, in February of this year, your Ministry received a fine of 300 thousand from the Office for the Protection of Competition. CZK, for the purchase of GORDIC's economic information system worth more than 77 million. Crowns. In 2013, GORDIC was addressed directly in the negotiated procedure without publication. However, the Antimonopoly Office has now stated that legal conditions have not been met for the Ministry chosen, otherwise a completely exceptional method of award, which has completely reduced competition in this case. Although this decision is probably not yet final, it has already been announced publicly that the Ministry has managed to agree, i.e. reduce, the amount of the fine granted, because your office was initially threatened with sanctions even up to 20 miles. Crowns. The further content of publicly available information also logically shows that the Ministry recognised its error when it itself requested control and also actively entered the licensing process for the amount of the fine granted and also, in its own opinion, merely "considers" further procedure. Madam Secretary, could you tell me in this regard who was or is still specifically responsible for this misconduct? What is the reason for this failure, and how will the particular culprit be punished? In this case, someone must be guilty. I consider the press statement by the spokesperson Petr Habán that the former administration of the Ministry is responsible for the situation. I consider it to be quite general and informatively very inadequate. It can thus be easily reasoned, for example, that the culprit could also be in a certain context by former Minister Věra Jourová, the Czech Commissioner, who did not legally oppose the contract concluded at the time of the office of Minister František Koníček. So what can you tell me about this fact? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u124	Thank you for keeping the time precise, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u125	Mr Vice-President, Members, I would perhaps start with such a simple clear sentence that we have been fined "only" at 300 thousand so far. The crown, because we turned ourselves in. And as far as genesis is concerned, as you said yourself, this is where it happened that at the end of 2013, it means behind the so-called. Official government, the Ministry of Labour has not used what has worked for almost two years, it was the information system of the ECIS, but directly in the so-called. without publication, GORDIC and its GINIS system have been selected. When we came in and this fact fell out on us in the investigation of the IT situation at our Ministry, we ourselves gave the initiative to the Office for the Protection of Competition to investigate this. I must also say that at present this whole process is being investigated by law enforcement authorities, so here for this reason I don't want to give you any names, because of course we know and saw who is signed under these documents. However, as far as I know, there's an investigation into an unidentified perpetrator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u126	Thank you. The Member will have an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u127	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. At this time, your answer is enough, but if you'd be so kind and willing to make a final decision to let me know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u128	Thank you. Madam Secretary nods that he agrees. Well, in that case, let's move on. Mr. Jan Chvojka's interpellation was drawn by the 14th interpellation in the order, but I do not see him here. Since he's not present, we'll move on. Next in line is Mrs Pavlína Nytrová, who interpels Minister Dan Ťok. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u129	Thank you. Dear Minister of Transport, I was approached by three citizens with a complaint and a request for clarification. It concerns the cancellation of regularly loaded train No. 440 Excelsior leaving Třinec at 22.26 pm. The cancellation of this connection created a large gap in connections from the eastern end of the Republic to Prague. Last Euro Train Odra leaves from Třinka at 17.14 hours and the next train leaves at 2.21 hours. This decision will be interrupted for a long time by the link between our eastern part of the Republic and the capital. A large number of passengers have traveled together who will now have to pay their beds in Prague because they have no chance of getting there in the early hours of the morning. Dear Minister, it must be taken into account that people less wealthy are mostly travelling by train, people who cannot afford to travel by car cannot afford to pay for an expensive stay in Prague. Again, I stress that train No. 440 Excelsior was busy according to citizens' communications and that the connection of the eastern significantly populated part of the Republic with Prague must not be neglected. My question is, why was this connection canceled? And will it be replaced by another link? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u130	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask the Minister to respond to your interpellation. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u131	Mr President, honourable Members, it is a fact that the Ministry of Transport has completed the order of the night train R 440/441 Excelsior. This train was conducted until December 2014 in the section Cheb - Chomutov - Prague - Přerov - Bohumín - Žilina - Košice and back and drove in the night period. In part of the route it was replaced by a daily train, namely it continues to ride in the section Prague at 5.15 hours, Cheb 9.38 hours, Prague 22.40 hours. As far as Prague - Central and Eastern Slovakia is concerned, it is essentially that two of the three night trains Slovakia, Šírava and Excelsior, of which two ordered by the Ministry of Transport, have become two night trains Bohemia and Slovakia since December 2015, one of them ordered by the Ministry of Transport. [[2014?]] From the point of view of the state's order it was a rational step for the following reasons. The Ministry of Transport has the task not to provide public transport as a whole, but to provide public services in the transport of passengers by long-distance trains on the basis of the Law on public passenger transport services. In addition to the long-distance trains ordered on the Czech railway network, long-distance trains are operated on the line Praha - Olomouc - Ostrava on the commercial risk of the carrier, such as expresses Prague - Ostrava or SuperCity Pendolino trains, carriers of the Czech Railways, as well as all trains of carriers RegioJet and Leo Express. The Ministry of Transport's order from the public interest point of view is focused on trains operated at the time of day approximately with departure from the starting station at 4 to 5 hours until arrival at the destination station at approximately 22 to 23 hours, in regular intervals throughout this so-called. Civic day. In addition, daily trains are ordered by the Ministry of Transport in exceptional cases, in justified cases, by trains conducted during the night period. Night trains can also basically provide transport services to the state, but they are not as important in terms of definition as daily transport trains, which are primarily used to provide transport to schools, to employment, to health establishments, to public authorities and so on. The main purpose of night trains is to transport over long distances, especially in the accommodation cars, bed and couch car, designed primarily to satisfy cultural, recreational and social needs with arrival in late evenings and exit in the morning of the following day. The frequency thus significantly dominates the international character using so-called. night jump with departure from the starting station in the evening and with arrival to the destination station in the morning. Therefore, their order is not quite a classic transport service and it is not entirely the core competence of the Ministry of Transport. In fact, the train was not cancelled by the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Transport has merely completed the order of this train and its subsidization from public funds and, of course, does not prevent such a train from continuing to be provided as a commercial activity of one of the carriers, see for example. EN Slovakia. [[17,00 hours]] The connection of the accommodation cars to the West Bohemian Spa was maintained by direct cars on the EuroNight 444 and 445 train and on the corresponding daily transport trains on the Prague - Ústí nad Labem - Cheb and Prague - Plzeň - Cheb section. Saved funds were not wasted but used in daily transport. The connection of Plzeň - České Budějovice, Brno - Jihlava, Olomouc - Šumperk was strengthened in cooperation with Bavarian colleagues Cheb - Nuremberg and a top train for the dynamically evolving Prague - Brno session was added. Due to the limited possibilities of public budgets, the Ministry of Transport has been forced to cancel the train R 440 and R 441 in the section Prague - Olomouc - Mosty near Jablunkov state border from the beginning of the timetable 2014 to 2015, while, as already mentioned in the introduction of the information, trains R 442, 443 Bohemia, EN 444 and 445 Slovakia remain available in the international connection between Prague and cities in Moravia and Silesia. In the case of a second designated train, national transport is restricted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u132	Minister, even your time, I'm sorry. Try to finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u133	Completion of train operation R 440 and 441 in the part of the route is important in terms of a limited number of public funds. And I think I'd be done with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u134	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mrs... You're not gonna ask a follow-up question, okay. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who intersects Minister Daniel Herman, was ranked 16th. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u135	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, you have been in office for about 15 months. This is a time for which there is much to be done, which is certainly also true of the enforcement of bills. All the more so, there is a draft among your tasks, which the opposition Members will be happy to support. The proposal I am referring to is based on the commitment that I have read in the coalition agreement in the chapter Development of Culture and Sport and is: Following the model of developed countries, we will specify the rules on media ownership concentration. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions: firstly, which rules and where do you intend to take over? Second, what should that refinement be about? Thirdly, at what stage is the preparation of the proposal and when will it be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies for discussion? Fourthly, when do you expect a law regulating the concentration of media ownership to take effect? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u136	I thank you for your questions, and I will ask the Minister to answer your interpellation. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u137	Mr President, my colleague, my colleagues, my colleagues, in the part of the Government's programming declaration concerning the Ministry of Culture, it is indeed one of the priorities that the Government will adopt an amendment to media laws, because it is one of the most important parts of the Ministry of Culture's activities and activities. As part of changes to media laws, the legislative work plan for this year, i.e. 2015, is the amendment of the Act on Radio and Television and the amendment of the laws on Czech Radio and Czech Television, which will be submitted by the end of this year. Recently, there is often talk of the need to introduce measures, legal restrictions on the concentration of ownership in the media. It should be noted that a number of restrictions are already in place in the current legal order. The question is their application, which is related to the possibilities of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council to track down the real owners. This issue was also addressed by the institutions of the European Union. This is not only a case of the Czech environment. These European directives will also be based on the proposal for amendments to the legislative regulations that will come out of our department. In the ongoing discussions conducted on the European Commission's soil, the opinion is expressed that the issue of concentration of mere media ownership is retreating to the background, as it turns out that other players in the market are increasingly affected by media content, e.g. advertisers. Instruments such as the prohibition of crossing ownership in the current media world therefore prove not always adequate. Public information flows through channels other than television, radio or the press. However, it is not excluded to discuss such measures, but as I have already indicated, without the possibility of verifying the ownership structure may prove somewhat toothless. For this reason, we will propose, in the forthcoming amendment to the Broadcasting Act, an adjustment which should ensure the regulatory authority, the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, the possibility to identify or verify the actual end owners of the broadcasters. And as I say, we will definitely inspire ourselves with the experience of some European countries that are comparable to our conditions, because there are large differences in the media, but many countries, for example. Netherlands, Denmark, Slovakia have many parallels. I would also like to mention on this occasion that the role of the public service media is often mentioned in European discussions concerning the provision of media pluralism. Their role for society is expressed in a number of documents from the European Union and the Council of Europe, and I can assure you that the Ministry of Culture will always promote these European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u138	Thank you, Minister. And I ask the honourable Member whether she will have an additional question. The follow-up question will come up. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u139	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to ask once again what stage the proposals are at and when they could come to the Chamber of Deputies. And whether a law that regulates the concentration of media ownership could take effect. And you were talking mainly about television broadcasting, so whether you are also dealing with the issue of paper media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u140	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u141	Electronic and printed media, of course, have their specifics. And, yes, what I was talking about is mainly about television, but also radio broadcasting, because there are already some regulations currently in place, as I have announced. For example, at present one legal or natural person may only own one analogue radio broadcasting licence or one legal or natural person may own a maximum of two licenses, so-called full format regarding television broadcasting. Full format, i.e. the whole range, the whole spectrum of the range of the program, is not only focused on e.g. educational programs or programs for children, but also news, sport, simply the whole spectrum. So, especially in the preparation of media laws or novels, we focus on radio and television broadcasting as it is in the draft legislative work for this year. As far as the entry into force is concerned, of course, there is a question that should certainly concern the foreseeable period. In my estimate - but now I would hate to think of it as a very clear and definitive date - maybe it could be in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u142	Thank you, Minister. Before we go any further, I'll read one note. From 17:00 to the end of today's meeting for personal reasons, Mr Josef Kott apologizes. Mr. Josef Šenfeld, who intersects Minister Martin Stropnický, was drawn on the 17th in order. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u143	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. My interpellation to Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. Dear Minister, last year your ministry provided a subsidy for the Czechoslovak political prisoner care project, members of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union, which met in the affected with an extremely large response. The former prisoners of Nazi concentration camps and prisons very much welcomed the care that was provided to them through the funds of your ministry through field workers as well as members of the Czech Freedom Warriors Union. Most of them are people over the age of 80 with health problems, often suffering from social isolation, for which human immediate contact is very important. In a number of cases, field workers advised them and helped them to ensure, for example, a contribution to care and contact with authorities, but, above all, their personal interest in their lives gave them a significant feeling that they were not forgotten and that society today is not indifferent to their fate. According to my information this year, a similar project has not yet been carried out by your ministry and former political prisoners are asking when their field worker will visit them. It is a fact that some of them themselves finance these visits in limited numbers for at least some political prisoners, but this cannot replace the extent of care that could be provided if the last year's project continued. My question is: Will the Ministry of Defence provide funds for the Czech Freedom Warriors Union for the Czechoslovak Political Prisoner Project? Thank you for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u144	Thank you. As the Minister is not present, the reply will be sent to you in writing. Let's move on. Mr. Jiří Junek, who intersects Minister Dan Ťok, was drawn on the 18th in order. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u145	Mr President, thank you. Good afternoon. Dear Minister, Law No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure, has been amended several times. The February 2013 amendment had almost fatal consequences in the area of land purchase for the construction of the motorway network. Specifically in my region, the Pardubice Region, in this period the purchase price fell from about CZK 120 per square metre to some CZK 15, up to CZK 30 per square metre. Of course, at this price, virtually none of the owners were willing to sell their land. The newly elected House has decided to remedy this situation and Act No. 416 to amend again. This happened in the middle of last year and the amendment came into force 13. 9. 2014. On the basis of this, the purchase prices increased by eight times, in the event of the Minister's exemption to sixteen times. So my question is, how is this amendment applied in practice and what is the experience with it? Whether the land is being bought out without any difficulty on its basis. In this context, I am also interested in the state of the purchase of land for the construction of the R35 expressway in the section Opatovice nad Labem - Time - Island near Vysoké Mýta. I understand that the second part of the question is quite specific, so if you can then answer it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u146	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister to respond to your interpellation. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an analysis of Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure, in order to identify the biggest problems of investors in the current legislation of property preparation of buildings. The current state is based on the amendment of the Act and the Ministry of Transport issued by Directive No. 5-2/2014 to implement the law. After the amendment was effective, the Road and Motorway Directorate managed to deal with the 5. 3. 2015 total 852 landowners for 47 buildings, number of running purchases is 1 313 and requests for exemption are 77. The Railway Infrastructure Administration has settled a total of 25 ownership sheets, the running settlement is at 79 ownership sheets and no request for exemption. A total of 33 requests for exemption have been submitted to the Ministry of Transport from the ŘSD so far. As of today, no derogation has yet been granted. Specific situation on construction sites R35 Opatovice nad Labem - Times and R35 Times - Island to 5. 3. 2015. There's no buying-in at any other construction site. The total number of ownership sheets is 549, the total owners 1 102, the number of settled owners at the date of the amendment was 144, the number of settled owners since the amendment is 441, the number of running purchases is 517 and the number of requests for exemption is 28. Despite some progress in the land purchase process, major investors point to considerable problems, especially these, both the Road and Motorway Directorate and the Railway Infrastructure Administration. It is very difficult for an expert to establish the usual price of land intended for the construction of transport construction, since such land is not in practice traded. In the context of the expropriation procedure, experts often appreciate the expropriated non-construction land as construction land, i.e. taking into account the zoning decision issued. They intend to enforce the law of 16 times as part of the expropriation proceedings or, where appropriate, in the context of litigation. Landowners often prefer an expropriation procedure where their position is completely different. They submit an opinion which the expropriating authority, as factually not competent, does not examine the higher price, and the investor has no choice but to appeal to the superior authorities or to bring actions with uncertain results. The very uncertain position of the expropriation authorities in the absence of the Ministry of Transport's exception to the 16 times price requirement is not yet practical experience. Based on the practical experience and results of the analysis, the Ministry of Transport will consider adjusting and resolving the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u148	Thank you. This seems to have an additional question. Let's put her down, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u149	Thank you for your answer. I will carefully monitor how the Ministry will deal with the problem 16 times. However, I have another additional question, which also concerns the construction of R35. I really don't want an answer here. I just need to write it in writing. Here's the thing. According to a valid R35 project, there is a crossroads or exit from the R35 in the town of Litomyšl. Since another similar intersection or similar convention is scheduled just two and a half kilometers further, all mayors from the region view this intersection as completely unnecessary and unnecessarily expensive costs for the entire construction of the expressway. However, despite the general agreement of the municipalities concerned and their inhabitants, the ŘSD insists on this crossroads. And I wonder why that is. Why does the state want to spend too much money on this unwanted construction? I don't insist on answers now, and then I'll just do it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u150	Thank you. It seems the Minister will respond immediately. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u151	I just want to react fast. I'll take a look at it. If it's an unwanted crossroads, I'll discuss with the ŘSD why we insist. I guess it could be ruled out. I'm just gonna go back to 16 times that. We just don't want to make another novel right away. We want to try out how this is going to work, and by implementing the decree, we want to build between eight and sixteen times in some way, and we will definitely introduce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u152	Thank you. And now we're going to move forward. I will ask Mr Petr Bendl to intersect with Minister Marian Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u153	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister of Agriculture, since I have learned that former pre-November senior representatives of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, such as the former border crossing chief and the long-time border crossing chief in Rozvadov, are being accepted into senior officials' posts, I would like to assure you that all those who come to the Ministry of Agriculture for you have a clear demonstration certificate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u154	Thank you. The answer to this question will be sent to you in writing. Next in line is Mrs Radka Maxová, who is intersecting Minister Dan Ťok. I don't see her anywhere here, in which case we'll move on. The next is Mrs Anna Putnová, with her intercession to Minister Marcel Chládek. [[Ambassador Max is entering the hall]] . I apologise, Madame, you must be present in the hall at the moment when the order is raised. It's not the first time it's happened. Indeed, when I read the name, you must be present in the hall, in which case it continues. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u155	Mr President, Minister Chládek. The year 2015 was declared the Year of Technical Education. This initiative was taken by the Confederation of Industry and Transport and the Ministry of Education only joined this initiative. Anyway, I'm glad it did. You have promised support to technical education on your trips around the Republic in a number of cases. At the end of February of this year, you said that you wanted the project, in which the premises for inspection in schools and in businesses will be offered, to be open to all, especially to parents whose children would be interested in the technical profession. On that occasion, you said you were ready for something to cost. So I would like to ask you what is the budget for supporting technical education this year and what are the projects in particular.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u156	Thank you, Madame. I want to ask the Minister if he's ready for an answer. Then I'll ask you to answer the question to the lady.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u157	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, always ready. Madam, it is a little more complicated because we are sending funds from more resources. I will try to sum up my time limit as much as I can. First, let's start with operational programs. With regard to technical education, the OP VK from 2012 to 2015 was three thousand seven billion, in 2015, that is this year, 1.2 billion, and now we are talking about an additional 800 million. What I said in the morning also concerns one technical education support project, and this is the education of teachers of vocational subjects in a foreign language, so we will pay for the possibility of those who teach vocational subjects and want to teach these subjects in a foreign language, so they will be able to intern in this language abroad. Then there is the second thing for teachers of professional subjects that they will be able to pay out this exact fund of professional internship abroad. For 2015 there is further support for technical education in OP VaVpI. There, in addition to the 2.5 billion that have already gone ahead and are ending this very year, we are still preparing a residual challenge for CZK 200 million and in the operational programme of the VVV, which should be approved if everything goes, in May, respectively. June this year, so for technical education there is prepared 8.7 billion. Currently for 2015, on the other half, another CZK 340 million. Then they're still funds from national funds, so I'll mention at least some of them. One of them is CZK 200 million, and this is the support of fields where few students report and it would not be possible to open it under the current financing method. Where it is for the number of pupils, so we put 200 million crowns there, and then they are those multi-disciplinary classes that can also ask for it. The first round is over and the second round is now being prepared. Then there is another fund in support of technical education. There is now 43 million prepared at the moment, and this is a fund that I call 3+3+3 when we want to give the region three million crowns, but if the region undertakes to add also three million crowns and entrepreneurs from the region also three million crowns, so it would be nine million crowns per region, one region, with the fact that this challenge is ready to support the preparation of children from kindergarten and primary school to get a relationship to technology and vocational education, which means that schools can buy equipment for example for workshops, they can buy Lega, Mercury kits, they can buy science centre tickets etc., all of this will go for it. In the new way of financing, we are also preparing much more support for even teachers of technical subjects. We're also preparing a variant, the connection that you probably had in mind, and that's the connection between high, high and elementary schools. It's already going on in some schools. Example of CTU - gymnasium in Nový Scarecí, this is a specific example. We have prepared that secondary vocational schools will offer and primary schools will use the premises of these secondary vocational schools, which would replace e.g. It's technical education and workshops. That's what this is about. I don't know how much time I have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u158	You have about a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u159	Well, I don't know if I answered the lady's question satisfactorily. If not, I'd add more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u160	He's going to ask you a follow-up question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u161	Minister, all the figures you have said are likely to be checked further from the screen, but this is the project that you mentioned on the air and reported to the Mladá front on 27 February. With ease, you said to yourself that you were ready to create an open-door project so that children and especially their parents could get acquainted with the work environment. So I'm asking specifically about this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u162	Thank you, I'll ask the Minister for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u163	Thank you. I'd be happy if you'd look into it. I'd rather you prepare a review committee for that, see if I made any mistakes there, but I have to admit, with ease, I can't remember it right now. There's so much written that if you tell me article 27 in the Young Front written at 10:00 in the morning, I can't exactly include it right now. If you send it to me later, it's okay. But if you're asking about those open-door days, etc., it falls into this area, the fund I was talking about last time, 3+3+3. We are willing and able to support it financially, we have the money for it, but the other side must want it. We don't have a problem with that. Another thing I might have mentioned, and you probably mean that, that's the thing that I saw in some businesses, where they connect a lot more with individual schools, that they open open open days for parents of children so that children and their parents can look into the environment and find out, and that's probably what you mean to find out that the field isn't about so-called. dirty fitters, but it's about something else. Is that what you had in mind?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u164	I'm asking about the project.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u165	As far as these matters are concerned, we have long supported this, even now I have had negotiations with the ambassadors and it was easy for me to agree with the ambassadors of the Austrian and German parties that even the German and Austrian companies, branches will be involved in this project. If I have not satisfied you, Madame, I will do my best next time to fully satisfy you, and if you are still in the meantime, before the next interpellation, you would like some additions, I will be happy to supplement it personally or in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u166	Thank you. And now I will ask Mr. Petr Kudela to intercede for Minister Richard Brabec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u167	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have an interview with the Minister of the Environment. Dear Minister, today we approved the Environmental Report for 2013. The report says: Despite the long-term decline in emissions, pollutants, air quality in the Czech Republic is not improving. The most polluted regions include the Moravian-Silesian region, in particular the Ostrava-Carvin basin. The cause of unsatisfactory quality is more. Due to regional customs and energy prices, family houses still have a very common burning of solid fuels. The awareness of the creation and protection of the environment, i.e. the environment in which I, family and neighbors live, is gradually increasing among citizens. Family home owners are gradually beginning to change their local heating sites to higher emission classes. It is also helped by the so-called cauldron subsidies. You spoke of their preservation and funding on the 60 minutes program at Radiožurnál on 20 March. Thanks for these subsidies. Here I recommend the maximum simplification of drawing rules for the highest possible interest of applicants. Ostravaci are proud and their pride may be an obstacle to the application. In the context of thinking about the decline in coal mining in OKD as well as thinking about limiting brown coal mining, I ask: Will there be sufficient fuel in the long run to ensure that the funds invested in time are not wasted? Also, on Radiožurnál, it was corny that Ostravák is drowning five bottles filled with sawdust and watered oil. I'm from Ostrava, but I don't really drown like that. Such a statement really affects me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u168	Ambassador, I'm sorry, I'm gonna ask you to ask questions you want answers to because your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u169	However, emissions of dust and other pollutants from local heating are only about one third of the production. That is why I have a second question about whether and how the Ministry of the Environment focuses on other important sources of pollution, which are large sources - power plants, heat plants, metalworks and transport. All this with the ability to maintain or develop jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, as on the 23rd, was Mrs Markéta Adamová, who interpels the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. I don't see her in the hall. Let's keep going. I will therefore ask for an interview by Mr Petr Bendl, who is intersecting Minister Marian Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u171	Dear absent Minister of Agriculture, honourable Members present, I would like to ask the Minister a question concerning Foresta SG, which, without a tender, has been awarded a contract from the Forests of the Czech Republic to mediate the sale of timber, with a commission of CZK 55 per cubicle, and the Forests of the Czech Republic guarantee it a yearly sale of at least 200,000 cubicle. The whole thing without a tender. Minister, this government often criticizes the governments of the past in what they did wrong, and you say together as a government coalition that it will be better. This is the standard you wanted?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u172	Thank you. In the absence of the Minister, you will be answered in writing. I will now ask Mr Michal Kučera, who has an interview with Minister Dan Ťok. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u173	Thank you for the floor. Since I've been waiting here for two hours for my interview with Minister Took, who I don't see here... I see. Thank you. [[Vice-President Bartošek: Here he comes.]] He's coming. The minister encouraged me to do this by interspersing about a field hamster to change the subject to a European beaver. According to my information, at the Žofín Forum, you questioned the conservation of nature and landscape in connection with the construction of the Jeez on the Dečín Labi. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that any easing of environmental issues in professional forums, even if only in the pursuit of a joke, is totally unacceptable by the Minister of Government of the Czech Republic. Here I am touching the easing of the protection of protected species - in your case the European beaver. Just because you or any of your colleagues haven't seen the protected species in the Elbe doesn't mean the protected species don't really live there. Fortunately, the construction of the lake on the Elbe will not be decided by sensory perceptions, but by the laws of our country. I would like to ask you, Minister, for an opinion on whether you respect European legislation, whether you respect legislation in the field of nature and landscape protection, and whether you are aware that there are endangered animal species living on the Elbe, and that the European beaver on the Elbe is one of the endangered species, and that it is indeed protected by this legislation. Can you guarantee that the approval of the construction of Děčín lake, for example, will be carried out independently and impartially?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u174	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister to answer your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u175	Mr President, honourable Members, in no way did I intend to question laws in the protection of nature and other matters. I would like to say, through Mr President, that I myself do not wish to intervene in any way or in any negative way to influence, I would say, the justified requirements for the conservation of nature on the Děčín Jezee. It was I who initiated the debate, and I'm initiating it further, with environmental organizations, when we want to talk about what bothers them at one or two degrees in Děčín. I think our concern is for the Elbe to be navigated to a reasonable degree. I'd like to help. But I certainly don't want to take steps to ignore or suppress the rights of nature protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u176	Thank you. The Member is about to ask an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u177	Thank you for explaining this to the Minister. However, I would still like to say to Minister Took that he is not the first Minister for the YES movement, who makes light of and challenges the proper administrative procedure for the construction of the Jesuit on the Elbe. It was not so long ago that Minister Brabec, when the Minister of the Environment on social networks questioned the EIA process, i.e. the Environmental Impact Act during the construction of the lake on the Elbe, although he later appealed and explained it to the skeleton. So don't be surprised that part of the public is sensitive to statements like yours. And the fact that it may have been meant as a joke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u178	Thank you. I wonder if the Minister will respond. Looks like it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u179	I would just like to add that I thank you for the initiative and I will take more notice of my comments even though they may be meant to be exaggerated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u180	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Jana Hnyková for her interpellation to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, the Committee on Social Policy is very closely monitoring and interested in information systems in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic. Last time, it was the intervention of the ministry led by Mr Drábek at the time that unfortunate circumstances occurred. Thanks to the above-standard deployment of the Labour Office staff, large social impacts have been avoided. As we were informed, 24 groups were working on the procurement documentation of the new IT systems, which prepared the procurement documents. As members of the committee, we were interested in participating in the expert group, which was to process the tender documentation itself for the selection procedure. We were not allowed to do so on the grounds that these are classified matters. Now the tender is announced, no one can be influenced anymore. [[17.40 hours]] I did not get a clear answer at the committee meeting, so I am asking you now: What was the specific composition of the expert group that prepared the outputs from 24 working groups and prepared the tender documentation for the selection procedure? Next question: Were workers of the employment office invited to this expert group? And the last question: what degree of verification within the meaning of Law No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and on security competence, did the members of the expert group have? I understand that these are perhaps more difficult questions, I will be satisfied with written answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u182	Thank you for your intervention and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u183	Mr Vice-President, Members, first of all, I would like to say that the Ministry of Labour, like many other departments in this country, has been in a situation where a certain part of IT services, somewhere larger, somewhere smaller, with us quite large, is a company that came there many years ago, without a tender. In the specific situation of the Ministry of Labour it is a OK-system company, which, as I remember it well, has been there since 1996 and has never passed the selection procedure as such. When I joined the ministry, we found, among other things, an audit, I think from 2011, which already said that open selection procedures were needed. What happened behind Minister Drábek, however, was nothing about the selection process. This was the choice of another company under very strange and problematic circumstances and it was still so fast and unthinkable that it turned out very badly, of course. We have declared, from the very beginning of my accession, that we will be declaring open competitions. Right at the beginning, sometime in February of last year, maybe in March, we published a timetable for the work as it will be, and we kept it all. With regard to the specific questions that you have just asked, they have been referred to the Committee on Social Policy, and we will answer them in writing not only now to you and to the whole committee. However, yes, there were, of course, people from the employment office in those expert groups. I must say that at that moment we did not see much of a reason why Members should intervene in such a process, which is solely responsible for us in the Ministry. So that's why we didn't invite you to the expert group, that's true. And as for who, why, and in what kind of group they must have the clearance, it will also be answered in writing. However, I am still reluctant to tell you why we should give you the names of the people who worked on 24 committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u184	Thank you. It seems that the Member will ask an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u185	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your written reply. But I don't care about the 24 groups, but the ten names that worked in the expert group that processed the 24 groups. Just here, if you could fill it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u186	I thank you and ask the Minister if he will respond. He won't react any further. Thank you. I shall now ask Mrs Pavlína Nytrová with her interpellation to Minister Richard Brabec. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u187	Thank you. Since the Minister of the Environment isn't here, and I'd like an oral response to my interpelation, I'll keep it for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u188	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Marta Semelová with her interpellation to Minister Marcel Chládek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u189	Thank you. Dear Minister, we recently approved an amendment to the school law, unfortunately without implementing legislation. This has now triggered changes of considerable size, namely in special education, following this amendment. As can be seen from some of the documents of the Office of the Government, the abolition of the annex to the RVP is prepared, which prepares the education of pupils with mild mental disabilities, i.e. LMP. This is protested by the representatives of the professional public, with no proper discussion taking place on such a serious change, that without proper analysis and verification something that works and helps many children without thinking and preparing what will happen next is to be abolished. And now the experts are supposed to express themselves, within a few days, actually, to the matter at hand. It's not the first time they've been quietly changed before. Just recall what preceded the approval of the amendment to the School Act, when passages properly discussed and commented on the intervention of human rights entities within three days were completely changed and incorporated into the amendment. Elementary schools currently educate according to the framework education programme for basic education and RVP ZV with an attachment for the slightly mentally disabled, which is intended for these pupils. The framework programme for basic education of pupils with mild mental retardation does not address, is not designed for this method of education and does not include this education. Therefore, an amended Annex to the LMP was drawn up. I would therefore like to ask whether you agree that the revised annex to pupils' training with LMP should be deleted, whether it is true that the request for cancellation is already from September 2015. And if so, according to what and under what conditions these pupils will learn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u190	I thank you, Madame, and I will ask the Minister to answer you lightly with his own. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u191	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will do my utmost to keep my reputation and live up to it. However, at the beginning I will mention with ease my own - that the school law was going on as it was going on, unfortunately, not entirely because of the Ministry and us, but because of the process that took place on the committee, let's say partly by the chaotic management of this committee. I don't have to mention it, Madame. However, with regard to the interference of the LMP and the LMP Framework Education Programme, I have decided, first of all, that there will be no other minister tasking my officials, my ministry, if I am a minister. Secondly, if such a crucial step is to be taken, it must be discussed. And when we say "a," we have to say "b," which means if we want something not to disturb, but to modify, then we have to know the effects, we have to do a study of these impacts. And this is how we're going to proceed. Of course, this must be expressed by the professional public. And as I said in the school bill, in the hearing, I'm in favour of inclusion, and at the same time I'm against massive headless interference with practical and special schools. I'm actually convinced that it would be wrong because it would stop working because the system can't work like that. But I can imagine if we massively support inclusion in the future, so that the larger number of children will be in the main educational currents, the ones they have mentally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u192	Thank you. The honourable Member is going to ask a supplementary question, so I ask you to ask her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u193	Just to be clear. This means that the Annex to the LMP is not expected to be deleted from September 2015. And it is true that experts are to express themselves at the request of the Ministry of Education by 14. 4. just for this upcoming change? I would just like to say on that occasion that the amended annex is a technical material according to which pupils with mild mental retardation are educated, and this annex has nothing to do with the education of national minorities, with which some of these human rights entities or ethnic groups operate. It is simply intended for pupils with mild mental retardation without any jurisdiction. And the truly framework training plan for basic education without this annex is simply not intended for these children. They really wouldn't have anything to learn from.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u194	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u195	Thank you. Now I'm going to try to be as open as possible. For some officials, they try to be such high - quality officials that they are sometimes overzealous and basically begin to prepare and process something that nobody, virtually. The minister didn't give them the task. So the truth is, I've stopped the material that somebody's been preparing, and I said it's impossible for the Minister of Education to do this without knowing it, without expert debate, without expert discussion. Your information is probably coming from the first phase, which means that someone in his zeal has already wanted to meet and have everything ready. It is true that someone has already prepared such material for me and I have thrown it off the table with the fact that first there must be a professional debate, a professional discussion, and then we can talk about what steps we will take. I really need an analysis of the impact of these actions there, and then we have to make a decision. The truth is, too, we're under some kind of pressure, but you know that, you know, different organizations where there's effort or they think that -- I'm comparing it to that train. You know, you've heard it from me before, when the study on the track was such that the most fatal injuries were in the last car, so they solved the problem by unplugging the last car. And that's how it would work, if we canceled this attachment without taking any further steps, it would end up like that train. Basically, the problem would stay, just move somewhere else and maybe into a much bigger and worse form. If I may speak for myself, I guarantee you that I will not take this next step without expert debate. There must be a professional debate and there must be a two-way debate; there must be only one party that has one opinion or the other. We know that we're standing between two stones and that they have a diametrically different view of this area. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u196	I'm sorry, your time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u197	Thank you, two seconds. The truth, as always, is somewhere in the middle.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u198	Thank you. The twenty-nineth is Mrs Věra Kovářová, who intersects Minister Milan Chovanec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u199	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, few doubt that the issue of eGovernment deserves to be paid close attention to the political representation. Its importance is indisputable, and I believe that this is a consensus of the vast majority of our political scene. All the more I regret that we are lagging behind in this area, at least according to information recently published by the European Commission. At the end of February, the DESI issued an index on the transformation of individual European Union countries in this area. As the index shows, more than three quarters of Čech use the Internet regularly. In the field of digital public services, or so-called eGovernment, the Czech Republic ended in 25th place from the EU's 28th. This, in my view, is not only a very serious reason to think, but, above all, to take corrective action. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you how you feel about this outcome and what you intend to do to improve it for the future. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u200	Thank you for your question. Yes, you will be answered in writing. I am withdrawing Mr Radim Holeček's 30th interpellation at his request and I will ask Mr Petr Bendl for his intervention on Minister Dank Ťok. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u201	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Transport, I was approached by representatives of the towns and municipalities of Rakovnicka with their memorandum, which they wrote together. It concerns the maintenance, operation and optimization of the Rakovník - Kralovice - Mladotice track. The villages of Rakovnick are very tested municipalities, young people are difficult to settle there, because the transport service, which the Central Bohemian Region has optimized to almost complete optimization, means that people are really very difficult to transport there by public public transport, and therefore the municipalities dared to take that step and approached us by the Members or me. You, too, I presume. I want to ask you whether you have registered this and whether you are ready to negotiate with the municipalities and meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u202	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your interpellation. I'll ask the Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u203	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to respond to this interview by Mr Bendl through Mr President. Yes, we've registered this memorandum. Mayors of villages along Rakovník - Kralovice - Mladotice have signed a memorandum on the maintenance, operation and optimization of this line. The Ministry of Transport responded to this memorandum on 27. 3. 2015 by letter of the Minister, in which all the contexts were summarised in detail. Mladotice track - The cowl has been without operation for more than 18 years and is overgrown by the same old trees. In the current state is operated only track section Rakovník - Kralovice. In the section Rakovník - Clean is ordered regular transport in the range of eight pairs of connections a day. Part Pure - Kralovka is only weekend irregular operation. Only regional transport is ordered on the line. The client is the Central Bohemian Region in the section Rakovník - Net and in the rest of the line Plzeňský kraj. The cost of renewal of the line was estimated at 489 million in 2006. 622 thousand. Kč without VAT. The total transport demand in that section was 30 843 passengers per year, which is an average of 84,5 passengers per day, which gives the assumption of average occupancy of one train slightly over five passengers when eight pairs of trains were dragged into Net from Mladotic. The order of transport in the said section is not long-term interested by the customers. Traffic service is ensured by bus transport, which accepts the ČD tariff for maintaining the benefits of the networked nature of rail transport. The track section Kralovice - Mladotice is designed for sale as part of the sale of the remaining assets of SŽDC. In the first round of the tender, the minimum price of the railway concerned was fixed, respectively. section Kralovice outside - Mladotice outside at price level determined according to price regulations, a total of about 27 mil. Kč. The public competition was published on the SŽDC website on the web portal sreality.cz , on the official plates of all the municipalities concerned. Alert ads were published in Hospodářské noviny, in Mladá fronta TODAY. The acceptance of price offers was terminated on 5 January 2015 in accordance with the announced tender conditions. No offer was received at the time. In the second round, which was to be announced during spring 2015, at least the price is to be set at the usual price level, based on a comparison of sales of similar properties in a given location, that is about 5.7 million. Kč. If at this price no one had any interest in taking the line, in the third round the price would be set at half the price normal, even as an indicative, not as an uncrossible lower limit. If SŽDC does not receive price offers even in the final round of competitions, according to the above rules will follow the offer of a free transfer of lines to the Ministry of Defence and then to the regions and municipalities. The Ministry of Transport can send you a copy of the Ministry of Transport's reply to the memorandum, where you will find much more details. I would just like to add that this is, of course, a big policy, but it seems economically disadvantageous to operate this line. I would like to offer that we can talk about the link between bus transport, which we could support or try to support, would probably be a better option than investing almost half a billion in the renewal of a track where five people will ride on one train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u204	Thank you. It seems that the Member will ask an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u205	Thank you for the numbers I didn't know. However, I do think, Minister, and I would like to ask you if you would invite those communities to a meeting. Perhaps if you introduce them to reality, you will eventually come up with a solution that will benefit the region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u206	Thank you. The Minister will answer that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u207	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly be happy to meet the mayors who signed the memorandum and discuss it with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-02-ps2013-026-06-015-125.u208	Thank you. Since the Rules of Procedure say that the last interpellation to the members of the government can be placed at 17.55, so before I interrupt today's meeting, allow me to wish you a peaceful joyous and blessed Easter holiday, in the family circle best. I look forward to seeing you again next Tuesday at work together. So I'm interrupting the meeting until next Tuesday, 2:00 p.m.
