ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-009-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, and Other Related Laws /Departmental Press 261/ - Second Reading The submitted proposal under the authority of the Government shall be made by the Minister of Justice Helena Válková. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-009-009.u2	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have the honour to present to you the draft laws which the Justice Department is presenting. First of all, the bill amending Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters and Related Laws, House Press 261. We present this bill in the context of ensuring the implementation of Directive 2011/1999/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Order. Its content is essentially to ensure the victims of crime even after they are located outside the territory of the Member State in which the protection measure has been granted, their protection and protection also of persons close to the perpetrators of the offence in case there is a risk of life, health and dignity. Unfortunately, the implementation deadline has passed, but fortunately only a very short time, because the decisive day was January 11, 2015. The quoted directive provides for a new form of judicial cooperation. Its aim is to clearly strengthen the rights of victims of crime and actually prevent all possible forms of indirect coercion, harassment, kidnapping, dangerous persecution by the perpetrators of the crime, as I have already said, whether the victim is moving or is still staying in another EU Member State, or intends to abstain there and has already requested a European protection order. These European standards, in this sense, I think, do not raise doubts that they strengthen the protection of citizens of EU Member States. [[18.30 hours]] Following this directive, the proposed amendment to the law, as you have received it, includes a new type of cooperation, procedural cooperation, with other EU Member States, which is primarily aimed at protecting victims of crime. In the Czech Republic, a European protection order will therefore be issued, in particular on the basis of the first interim measure for the prohibition of contact with certain persons; Second, a provisional measure prohibiting entry into the dwelling; third, the provisional measure shall be prohibited from staying in a specific place; fourthly, in all cases, where decisions are to be taken on diversions, decisions imposing penalties or appropriate measures and decisions taken in enforcement proceedings, provided, of course, that those decisions impose one of the prohibitions foreseen by the directive. If a European protection order issued by another EU Member State is recognised in the Czech Republic, it is possible to impose on one of the preliminary measures that it predicts as an appropriate measure, i.e. if someone moves to us from another Member State, on the protection of the victim of criminal activity, on a relatively new one, on our criminal code, on paragraphs 88 and others. Furthermore, the bill adds to the Youth Justice Act, which is a special standard, as you know, certain specific provisions concerning the application of international judicial cooperation in juvenile criminal matters, which take into account the different terminology used by this Youth Justice Act in relation to the Code of Criminal Procedure, when the content is the same, but other terms are used, less stigmatizing the juvenile perpetrator. Special types of decisions are also made available, such as the withdrawal from criminal prosecutions and the like, which does not allow the criminal code. Then it is also possible to impose protective measures that cannot be imposed on adult offenders, such as protective education or various types of educational measures. It is in view of the fact that, as I have pointed out several times before, this is an increase in protection, a strengthening of the rights of victims of crime, that I hope you will support this amendment. And at the end of my brief speech, I would also like to point out that the proposals which have been discussed in the Constitutional Legal Committee, which has also adopted the amendments, are of such magnitude and change the proposal tabled by the Ministry of Justice in a way that I can agree with, and I support their approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-009-009.u3	Thank you, Minister Helena Válková. We ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and the Committee's resolution was delivered to you as the Parliamentary Press 261/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-009-009.u4	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional committee dealt with this press at its 22nd meeting on 12 November when it recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal. First of all. Secondly, he recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a total of seven on the bill, I dare say, the legislative technical amendments you have in the Chambers of Press 261/1. I'll take the liberty of skipping that reading. It's really just technical. He also instructed the President of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. He also authorised me to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the hearing, which I am doing. He also authorised me, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. And on top of that - I think in a rather exhausting way the Minister said it and I have nothing to add to that so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-009-009.u5	I thank Mr Pletich. I am opening a general debate that nobody is reporting to, so I am ending a general debate. I am opening a debate in detail, which is also not reported to. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. I ask for the final words of the Minister, if any, to the rapporteur. There is no interest in the final words, so I finish second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
