ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-06-ps2013-035-03-000-000.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, it is 9 o'clock and I am opening the third day of the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. In the meantime, I note that Mr Kučera will vote with a replacement card No. 11, Mr Rykala with card No. 6 and Mrs Nohavová with card No. 20. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their non-Participation: Adam Vojtěch - health zahradník, Bebarová Rujbrová Zuzka - personal reasons, Bendl Petr - family reasons, Birke Jan - no reason given, Brázdil Milan - working reasons, Halíková Milada - working reasons, Havíř Pavel - working reasons, Heger Leoš - working reasons, Hnyková Jana - working reasons, Holík Jaroslav - working Vondrášek, Holík Pavel - working reasons, Hovorka Ludvík - working reasons, Karamazov Simeon - personal reasons, Komárek Martin - foreign travel, koníček Vladimír - foreign travel, Lobkowicz Jaroslav - medical reasons, Květa Kvěra - personal reasons, Nováková Nina - working hours - Helena hours, Opálka Miroslav - working reasons, Putnová Anna - health reasons, Sedláček Jan - personal reasons, Skalický Jiří - working reasons, Valentaří - working Valenta, Valentaří - Jiří from 11 hours - personal reasons - personal Jan - healthková - healthková reasons Válníková. From today's meeting, the following members of the government apologized: Bělobrádek Pavel until 9.45 and from 13:00 - working reasons, Dienstbier Jiří - working reasons, Herman Daniel - foreign trip, Jurečka Marian - foreign trip, Pelikán Robert - working reasons, Ťok Dan - working reasons, Valachová Kateřina - working reasons, Zaorálek Lubomír - working reasons. [[Noise in the hall.]] We will now consider the items under the approved agenda. We will proceed to the discussion of paragraph 8. Before we go any further, Mr Tejc votes with replacement card No. 13. I will ask the House to keep it down so we can discuss the third reading in peace. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] So once again, I'm going to ask the House for peace. [[He's waiting.]] Thank you. It is not an ideal situation, but I do not want to call on individual Members who cancel. We're at the third reading and we're at the point
