ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-007-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 414/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Before I give him the floor, I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Dolejš to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I will ask the House for peace, and Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-007-018.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has submitted a bill amending the Act on Insurance and other related laws. This is primarily about the transposition of the new legislation on insurance of the European Union into our legal order, which aims to further step up the harmonisation of the rules on access and the pursuit of insurance and reinsurance activities within the single European market and the exercise of supervision of this activity. The proposed changes are intended to strengthen the financial stability of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, the transparency of their activities and the accountability of supervisory authorities for the stability of the insurance market. This is a significant intervention in the existing legislation when a significant part of the regulation will be contained directly in the applicable European Union legislation. This involves a number of new rights and obligations of both regulated entities and the Czech National Bank as a supervisory body. On the other hand, these increased claims should lead to significantly higher protection for policyholders and other persons entitled to benefit from insurance. In order to ensure a smooth transition to the new regulatory system, the European legislation on the entry into force of the proposed law is divided so that certain rights and obligations take effect this year and the law as a whole should take effect on 1 January 2016. This draft law contains a broad list of transitional provisions which allow insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings to achieve full compliance with the requirements of the law gradually within a reasonable period of time. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, in view of the considerable scope of the new regulatory and supervisory regime of the insurance sector and the associated need to ensure sufficient time for the preparation of the bodies concerned, in accordance with Section 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in the debate will allow me to request a reduction of the time limit for the consideration of the proposal in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-007-018.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I state the apologies received to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is from the afternoon meeting the apologies of Mr Jaroslav Zavadil and Mr Jaroslav Klaška from 15 to 15.30 pm. I now request the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please, your intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-007-018.u4	Thank you for the floor. This is how the Insurance Act, which should implement the relevant prudential standards in this segment, finally arrived at us. For those who are not too concerned about this, if they have noticed that there is something like Basel in the banking sector, the third in the series, the Solvency standard, the second in the order, is something like that. It is true that this law was prepared and that it comes with a slight delay, it should have been discussed in essence last year or even in the previous year, I think in 2013. In the meantime, the Solvency Directive was supplemented by the Omnibus directive, which, of course, the submitted material responds to. As my previous speaker and minister said, it is a rather extensive standard. It concerns six laws. In addition to the main Act on Insurance, other laws, such as business, reserve law in securing the income tax base, vehicle liability insurance law, financial conglomerates law, and last but not least, although very marginally, the Act on the activities of the institution of occupational pension insurance, apply. So it's not a complete trifle. I understand that there is a proposal to shorten the deadline from 60 by 30, so we have 30 days left when we vote this proposal in this way. It also has a little bit to do with the fact that, if the standard is to be started on 1 January 2016, some preparatory steps should simply be prepared earlier due to legisvacance. Therefore, there are both dates at the time of entry into force and at the time of entry into force. 7. 2015. This is probably to add to the arguments why there is a request for a shortening of the deadline, even if it is a very comprehensive bill. The important thing, of course, is how the industry should react, the relevant sector. It must be said here that the Association of Insurance Companies has certain subjects and maybe reservations, but not of a more fundamental nature. It is true that they are already preparing for this standard, and the big ones are basically, as they say, already at a stage where it probably doesn't surprise them. But it is also true that there will be some consequences and that even the large ones can be expected to have a more conservative policy for individual insurance companies, which can ultimately also be reflected in the price of insurance premiums. Unfortunately, that's the world, and that's how the market behaves. This too must be taken into account when we discuss this law and possible amendments. So much for supplementing my intelligence report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-007-018.u5	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš for his news report. I am opening a general debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking who's reporting from place to place to debate. Because I don't see anyone - I see Mr. Jan Volný. [[Response to the question of Mr Free:]] In the general debate, please speak. [[The MP says he wants to perform in detail.]] If you're proposing a reduction in the time limit, then now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-007-018.u6	Excellent. Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, I would like to propose a reduction of the deadline for the second reading to 30 days, i.e. 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-007-018.u7	Thank you for this proposal. Who's next for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in the final words in that case? It's not like that. There has not been any proposal for repayment or rejection, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets and, therefore, in the context of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act as a guarantee committee. Does anyone have a proposal for a guarantee committee other than a budget committee? It's not like that. We will proceed to the vote, the 148 that I have begun, and I ask who is the guarantee committee for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 148 out of 159 registered for 125, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. [[15.20 hours]] Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees to discuss? It's not like that. We will therefore no longer vote. I note that it is only necessary to vote on the proposal that fell in the debate, namely a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion between first and second reading to 30 days, i.e. 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. We will decide in the 149 vote, and I ask who is 30 days in favour of shortening the deadline for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 149, from 159 in favour of 86, against 12. The motion was accepted. I state that the time limit for hearing has been reduced to 30 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 18. According to the approved agenda, we will now consider the item:
