ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-017-014.u1	14. Government bill amending Act No. 563/1991 Coll., on Accounting, as amended, and some other laws / House printing 398 - first reading I ask you, under the authority of the Government, to take the floor of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, and to tell us the press. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-017-014.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the amendment to Act No. 563/1991 Coll., on Accounting, and some other laws. The main changes which are the subject of the amendment to the Act relating to the implementation of a fundamental act of the European Union in the field of accounting, namely Directive No. 2013/34/EU on the annual accounts, consolidated accounts and related reports of certain types of undertakings. In accordance with the requirements of the Directive, it is proposed to introduce a categorization of accounting units by distinguishing micro, small, medium and large entities according to the established criteria. Allow micro and small accounting units to provide simplified reporting of data in the financial statements and their publication and other simplifications compared to medium and large accounting units. Furthermore, the draft law introduces an obligation to draw up and publish a payment report for the central, regional or local authorities of a Member State or a third country. This report will be drawn up by large entities and bodies of public interest in particular because of the greater transparency of payments made to these authorities. It will be an entity operating in the mining industry or in the logging sector in the original forests. This is a direct transposition of Directive 2013/34/EU. The proposed bill contains a new adjustment of the simple accounting regime and the possibility of its application by designated accounting units, subject to the conditions laid down. The method of keeping simple accounts was used in the same way as it was contained in accounting rules in the past. Compared to the previous adjustment, when the requirement for its use was a maximum of CZK 3 million, the amount of the entity's assets is added as an additional condition, up to a maximum of CZK 1.5 million. The third criterion for the possibility of keeping simple accounts is that the entity is not a VAT payer. It should be recalled that simple accounting is inherently disproportionately less informative than standard accounting, double. The aim of setting the criteria is to meet the requirement of transparency of accounting, declared by the European Union's already mentioned directives, and to take into account the fact that the size of the entity represents not only the amount of its income but also the volume of the assets it manages. This adjustment also caused changes to the Income Tax Act, the Reserves Act for the determination of the income tax base. The draft law also contains an amendment to the Auditor Act, which was initiated by the EU Accounting Directive. The effectiveness of the amendment to the Accounting Act is proposed on 1 January 2016. Finally, I would like to ask you to discuss and refer the amendment to the next legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-017-014.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I ask the rapporteur, to whom Mr Radim Fiala was designated for first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-017-014.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say something in my intelligence report on the amendment to the Accounting Act. The formal objective of this amendment is to reduce the administrative burden for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. De facto it is the implementation of the directive of the European Parliament, etc., etc., etc., as we have heard here from the Minister of Finance. In the European Union, the Commission called Green to SMEs, which recognised the central role played by small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union economy in mid-2008. The directive therefore includes the modernisation of accounting terms and substantive arrangements introduced with a view to reducing the administrative burden on micro and small accounting units. At the same time, however, this European directive, and therefore our Czech amendment, contains the introduction of an obligation to compile and publish a report on payments of over EUR 100 000 for some large enterprises. You ask why we should adopt a set of these disparate measures? Let me speak briefly about the process that actually comes from the European Union to the Czech Parliament. Let me paraphrase now paragraph Explanation of the necessity of the proposed legislation mentioned in this amendment. The amendment is necessary because Brusel simply ordered us to do so and is presented now because Brusel requires that it be implemented into national legal systems by the end of July 2015. So the role of our Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and of our Members in this case is merely to be a mediator, an administrative intermediary, a bureaucratic mediator who will obediently confirm the decision of the Brussels bureaucrats, which fell about seven years ago. That's fast! The decisions of people whom the vast majority of us do not know and have never seen and also which citizens have not been able to vote. A decision which, however, will have a significant impact on many of our citizens. The amendment is due to enter into force next year, after eight years after it has been identified in the European Union, in Brussels, its need. That's what I call speed and efficiency in the public interest! Well, I won't be stalling anymore, because that's enough for eight years. It doesn't matter what political colors our government is and what colors the opposition defends. What Brusel just said, our government has to do, because if it didn't, it would be penalized. Time is running out, and I don't think anybody wants to start the eighth or ninth year, which would divide Brussels' decision from its implementation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that my position on this amendment is positive. Let's move it to the second reading for further discussion. My position is positive against another debate on this amendment, but please let us work effectively, because we are not yet in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-017-014.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which I have one factual point so far. So please, Mrs Kovářová, but you can apply properly as well. In this way, you just beat Mr Kalousek. But then you'll settle it at TOP 09. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-017-014.u6	Thank you for the floor. I think the Prime Minister will forgive me. I just have a quick remark. I understand why it is necessary to discuss this amendment of the law, I would rather just raise doubts as to whether the limit for keeping simple accounts of CZK 1.5 million - relating to property - is not too strict. Today, small entities in cities and villages such as firefighters and similar associations have such property, so I see no reason to impose this obligation on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-017-014.u7	Yes, thank you. And now Mr Kalousek's already announced speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-017-014.u8	Thank you for the floor. Forgive me for taking advantage of the situation of the following point to return to the previous point in three or four sentences. I am here in several chapters, and I think that very illustratively, demonstrated the total lack of professionalism of the Minister of Finance's work both in material processing and in argumentation and presentation. Basically, I didn't get an answer, you just overruled us mostly, which is majority law. One of the unprofessionalities is that, although he was appealing to speed up the deadlines, no one sent him a text, no one advised him, and he himself doesn't have the ability to figure out that he has to ask for a shorter period of 30 days. If you happen to remember, Minister, or someone told you, I'm the material rapporteur and chairman of one of the opposition clubs, we'll let you do it because we can discuss it in 30 days. But you really should start working. So far it's funny what you're doing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-017-014.u9	Mr Kalousek. This is as far as I can see anyone in the debate, so I am ending the debate. The rapporteur does not ask for the final words. Mr. Vice Prime Minister doesn't want the final word either. So, in that case, we will decide on the determination of the guarantee committee and the commandment for discussion. At the same time, I propose that the Committee should also be a committee of guarantee. I'll ask if anyone wants to order this press to another guarantee committee. It's not like that. Therefore, we shall vote on the commandment of the Committee to the budget as a committee to the guarantee committee. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 35, registered 164, for 143, against no one. This proposal was adopted. There were no further proposals on the commandments of the committees. I'm asking you to make sure someone doesn't propose a commandment to another committee. It's not like that. In that case, I am of the opinion that we have ordered only the Committee on Budget as a guarantee. I'm done with item 14. We'll continue with point 15, which is
