ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u1	13. Government bill on registration of sales / House printing 513/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the bill on the record of sales. This is a legislative act that the government has factored as one of its priorities. The aim of the bill is to create a transparent business environment in the Czech Republic, to eliminate inequalities arising from violations of tax laws by certain business entities. The law will contribute to reducing the amount of the grey economy and improving tax morale in the Czech Republic, including comparing the distorted perception of tax obligations that have been established here in the past. The Act will also contribute to the increase in the revenues of the state budget and the budgets of the local authorities, without the need to increase tax rates with a negative impact on the economy of the Czech Republic. We expect a positive impact, in particular, on income collection of natural and legal persons and value added tax. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] The draft law establishes an obligation to report online cash sales to the tax administrator. The inspiration for the technical implementation of this system is the so-called fiscalization that works successfully in the Republic of Croatia. There is a form of registration of sales in many European countries, including those in which a lower amount of grey economy is reported than in the Czech Republic. In the vast majority, however, it is dealt with by means of registration treasures with fiscal memory. Online solutions that remove the main risk element of data manipulation and distortion of registered data are therefore a fundamental difference compared to previous ways of monitoring sales. Technological progress now makes it possible to apply this solution, which is both more effective and significantly lower costs for the business sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u3	I apologize, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, for interrupting you, but I will ask you, colleagues, especially in the right part of calming down so that you can hear what the Vice Prime Minister is giving. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u4	For example, Slovenia or Slovakia took the same route. The proposal submits that business sales made in cash, credit card or other similar ways will be recorded. Bank transfers from an account to an account or recovery orders will not be registered. The relevant exemptions from the registration of sales are only assumed to be minimal, in cases where registration of sales is not possible due to the disruption of smoothness and efficiency of the activity, examples are stores - automatics or sales of public transport tickets by the driver, or registration of sales is not effective, for example because the relevant type of business is already regulated by the State or is the activity of public bodies and their contribution organisations. [[13.20 hours]] This bill was discussed at first reading on 10 July 2015 and ordered to discuss the budgetary and economic committee. The Committee on Budgets discussed the bill on the record of sales on 2 September 2015 and, in its resolution, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve this bill as amended by the amendment in this resolution. I agree with this amendment. The draft law was discussed on 2 September 2015 by the Economic Committee, which did not adopt any resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Economic Committee. The budget committee resolution was delivered as House Press 513/1. The Economic Committee has not adopted the resolution and the record of the Economic Committee has been delivered as House press 513/2. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, as well as the Economic Committee of Mr Jaroslav Klaška, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committees and to justify any amendments. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to introduce you to the resolutions of the Committee on Budgets or, if necessary, the Economic Committee. As the Vice Prime Minister has already said, on 2 September the draft law was discussed by the Committee on Budgets. I will now introduce you to his resolution. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Simona Hornochová, Mr Jaroslav Klaška's report, the Committee on Budgets recommends, first of all, to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government's bill on record of sales be approved as amended by these amendments. The following amendments, which are set out in the Houses of the Press 513/1, are also amendments. They can literally be found there. So the question is, do I still have to read them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u7	A motion for a resolution which has been or has not been adopted shall always be read.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u8	Okay. I'll read it all just in case. A.1 Exclusion of transport sales 1. In Article 12, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (e) "paid" is replaced by "or related payments paid." 2. In Article 12, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: (g) the word "railway" is replaced by the word "railway." A.2 Deleting sales from a slot machine In Article 12, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (i) the word "separate" shall be replaced by the word "sales"; A.3 Sending data on the amount of payments for drawing or clearing In Article 19, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: the words "or settlement' shall be added at the end of the text of point (a). A.4 Reduction of the obligation of the tax administrator to allow the verification of data In Article 27, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 reads: The tax administrator will allow everyone to verify that the sales data have been sent to the tax administrator in a way that allows remote access. A.5 Extension of the subject matter of binding assessment In Section 32, at the end of the text of paragraph 2, the words "or whether payment may be registered in a simplified scheme' shall be added. A.6 Cancellation of the exemption from the gradual start-up of registration In Section 37, paragraph 3 is deleted. Paragraph 4 shall become paragraph 3. A.7 Change in efficacy Paragraph 39 shall read: Paragraph 39 This Act shall take effect on the first day of the eighth calendar month following the date of its publication, with the exception of the provisions of Sections 10 to 17 and 32 which shall take effect on the first day of the fifth calendar month following the date of its publication. Note: The text given in italics is informative. II. It empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. That is the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Simona Hornochová, report by Jaroslav Klaška and after a general and detailed debate I. did not adopt the resolution on the submitted Government Bill, House Press 513, II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this record of discussion to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. That is all from the Economic and Budget Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm gonna ask you to take a seat at the news desk. Before I open the debate, I'll read the notes that came to me. From 13:30 until the end of the meeting, Mrs Golasowská apologizes for reasons of work, and between 15:30 and 17:00, Mr Bezecný apologizes for reasons of work, and today from 15:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mrs Helena Langšádlová apologises. I'll add two more tickets. At 15 o'clock today, Mrs Jana Černochová and Minister of Defence Stropnický apologizes. So I am now opening up a general debate to which I am registering ten entries. The first party to the debate is Mr Pilný. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Dear half-empty House, I have two headings in my contribution. The first concerns supplementing the profile of Mr Kalousek's tradesmen's protector. I am here to recite what Mr Kalousek did at the time of his performance as Minister of Finance for Traders. The lower VAT rate has been increased several times from 5 to 15 percent. This certainly affected the VAT payers in particular. That's most businessmen. We have reduced this rate to 10 per cent and also want to reduce the VAT rate for restaurants from 21 per cent to 15 per cent under the EET Act. Mr Kalousek also cut a discount on taxes for retired workers. That's why I stopped my business. Fortunately, he was suspended by the Constitutional Court and returned it to the elderly. In connection with the introduction of a single recovery point, Mr Kalousek planned to reduce the VAT ceiling to 750 000. Kč. Again a fairly large group of businessmen who would fall into this category. Furthermore, the single collection point project also reduced the benefit for the exemption of employee benefits over 10 thousand. Kč. This significantly reduced the possibility of providing these benefits. Furthermore, Mr Kalousek leaned not only on the elderly but also on the disabled, because in 2010 he cancelled a tax reduction of one half for taxpayers, i.e. legal persons employing at least 25 employees. This is roughly the score of the protector of tradesmen and the self-employed Mr Kalousek. So when Mr Kalousek is here to play the role of protectors, I really feel that the peasants at Chlumec have done better. Now, let us look at another set of objections regarding how individual businessmen who are to be subject to this law from both cost and technology point of view will be burdened. I would like to say here that there are tens of millions of sales points in the world that work in the way that you attach a credit card or cross off a mobile phone and all data are transferred to all systems, storage, accounting, tax matters and so on. This trend is already in the Czech Republic and will continue to be extended. Regardless of whether the opposition is blocking and obstructing here until the end of the parliamentary term, these places will, of course, also be in the Czech Republic. Why is that? Since Mooreův's law applies in the field of technology, this means that technology is not only developing at an exponential rate, this concerns the speed of the Internet, equipment that can be used for electronic records of sales, but also exponentially falling their price. [[13.30 hours]] What the opposition is accusing us of maybe is that we didn't give the tradesmen a big enough hit. Because when Mr Kalousek wanted to introduce register registers, he would burden tradesmen with at least 20 thousand. Kč. Unfortunately, we are only doing it a quarter, so we probably didn't give them enough of a hit, according to Mr Kalousek. I think that's in terms of technology. Discussing whether it's connected to the Internet or not, I've been talking about that here before. And if that were the case, electronic banking and a number of other issues would probably not work. Only from European subsidies will 14 billion come into this matter during a very short period. and to move those tiny data from the perspective of the extent that it will provide electronic sales log, it really, really is enough. And there was this exponential development I was talking about. So summarized together, it seems that the fundamental idea of the opposition is here that we should support people who do not pay taxes, and at the same time we should give them a bigger kick in the implementation of this plan and burden them with far greater fees than proposed by Mr Kalousek. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u11	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Now, with a factual remark, Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not gonna be like Mr. Volný who caused a fuss here yesterday by tearing down some deals. I'll take it it's due by 5:00 p.m., then it's suspended. [[Voices: 16 o'clock.]] Or until 4:00? [[Exhibits of consent.]] 16 o'clock. Don't be mad at me if it's a government priority, and I look behind my back, so I don't see anyone in the government except Mr. Vice Prime Minister. If I do what social democracy sometimes does, what happened yesterday during the discussion of Ukraine, I will count you here, I will tell my colleagues plus another opponent "take your cards out, go home," and this House is unbearable. I would really ask the club YES and social democracy to get together, or we'll do it, because really - either it's a priority for you, so sit here, discuss, or it's not a priority for you, and then let's not spasm and let's all go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u13	I thank Mr Laudát for his point of view. Another point of fact - Mr Michal Kučera, after him Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u14	Thank you for your word. Of course, I also wanted to make a little comment on this miserable state by which the ruling coalition shows how genuinely interested it is in discussing this law. That's what we see on these empty benches. However, I would have responded a few more words to my previous speaker, Mr Pilný, whom I respect for his often very sober approach to the matter and such rational thinking. However, he has now shown a bunch of argumentative fouls. It's called argumentation fouls. I think it's possible to find out exactly what types of argument fouls are. One of them is saying, "It wasn't me, it was him, it was the ones in front of me, we're doing it now..." That's, I think, at my boyfriend's level, who I think goes to second grade, and they're like, "Dad, it wasn't me, it was him, it was someone else's fault. They do it, too. They did it too." These are the arguments that Mr Pilný referred to here, and I do not think it is worthy of him at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u15	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u16	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on the previous speaker of my colleague František Laudát. I've registered, or I'm offended by the same thing. As this priority of the government is discussed for - except for the petitioner - the absolute lack of participation of government ministers. The Torso of the House is present. I'm making a motion to adjourn this item. [[With emphasis:]] It's an undignified government priority. I propose, of course, a check-out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u17	Sorry. I'm sorry, there's a motion to unsubscribe everyone and a motion to adjourn. I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. Excuse me, Mr. Fiedler, the interruption is very limited. I need to know when. The criteria must be met there in accordance with the Rules of Procedure until when. Please adjust your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u18	What can I say, Mr President? By January 1, 2016? Or 17?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u19	That's up to you. I can't decide for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u20	Until October 31st.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u21	What year?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u22	This year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u23	Yeah, okay. I'll wait for the numbers to settle. The House is a quorum and we will vote on Mr Fiedler's procedural proposal for the House to suspend this item by 31 October of this year. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand. Who's against it? Sorry, my colleague's voting device isn't working. I declare this vote confusing. I'm re-signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I'm asking if everyone already has a voting device. Mr. Colleague, it's operational, ready? [[The addressed one has no objection.]] Now it's not working for me again for a change. [[Fun in the hall.]] So, once again, I'm signing you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. Yeah, it's spinning now. I am opening the vote on Mr Fiedler's amendment to interrupt this item by 31 October of this year. [[procedural]] All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 143. 90 Members and Members are registered, for 9, against 69. The motion was not accepted. We will continue the debate. Another duly registered member is Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador. [[The name has already spoken.]] Sorry. The next will therefore be Mrs Zuzana Šánová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u24	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me, too, to comment a little on the draft law under discussion and to state some measures to prevent tax evasion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u25	I ask you, Madam, if you wouldn't like a little lower microphone, you'll be better understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u26	At first reading of this bill, we have heard many times the question of why the government comes up with a bill designed to prevent, among other things, the reduction of sales and tax evasion in retail and hospitality, when some studies say these frauds represent only 5% of the total amount of tax evasion. The opposition is thus trying to create the impression that innkeepers and retailers in retail are, according to the government, the biggest impostors to be hit hard, while the remaining 95 percent of tax evasion is left unnoticed by the government. Games on the topic of which percentage represents which escape, have a single meaning - to counter the problem of cutting sales and to question the importance of electronic records of sales, while the percentages mentioned are often misinterpreted, purposefully removed from the context of analyses or only part of the analysis data is used or based on questionable analyses. This percentage demagogy must be strongly rejected. We're working with a clear fact. The Czech Statistical Office has calculated the volume of reduced sales in the amount of 160 billion. Crowns. So we're not talking about some marginal problem as the opposition is trying to induce here. Even if we admit that electronic records can only solve a certain part of tax evasion, this still does not mean that the government might resign from fighting tax evasion in other areas. It is the opposite. Our coalition government and, above all, the Ministry of Finance have taken a number of measures aimed at preventing tax evasion throughout their wide range, and the bill presented is only one of the many measures, a stone in mosaic, which aims to stop tax evasion, whether small or large. This is not just about adopting misleading action plans, which remain only on paper, as was the case in the past, but about real interlinked actions that gradually go into practice. So let me remind the opposition Members and, after all, the public of at least some of these measures here. First. Limitation of tax optimization of multinational companies for transfer prices for transfers of money abroad. Since 2015, a new annex to the corporate tax return has been introduced; natural persons do not have this obligation in which companies are obliged to provide transactions with foreign connected persons within multinational groups. The Annex is broken down by type of transaction, such as dividends, interest, licence fees, service payments and the like. On the basis of the information obtained, the Financial Administration shall carry out targeted checks. On the basis of a questionnaire sent by the financial authorities, in particular by the specialised financial authority, which manages the largest companies operating in the Czech Republic including financial institutions, the companies provided the same information for the previous years. Furthermore, I would like to mention the reverse charge scheme, the so-called reverse taxation, which may be known as the transfer of tax liability. It is a procedure used in the field of value added tax. The transfer of tax liability is an effective tool in preventing VAT evasion, as it takes place administratively only with the customer, i.e. for one of the trading transactions to which the tax obligation is transferred. Of course, if the two payers are VAT, because this obligation cannot be passed on to the non-payment. In order to avoid VAT fraud, the Government has gradually approved the extension of the reverse charge scheme to all categories of goods and services for which tax fraud has been detected in chain trading and which the relevant European directive allows us to do. However, we want to go further. The Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic is at the forefront of joint activities with Austria, Slovakia and Bulgaria, which is intended to promote that, instead of applying reverse charge to selected commodities, the Commission can use reverse taxation for any transaction of more than EUR 10,000. The next step, which will make a significant contribution to reducing large tax evasion in the area of VAT, is the introduction of an obligation to pay VAT, to report so-called control reports. Lawyers who are more involved in large-scale VAT fraud are required to report this control report on a monthly basis, irrespective of the period of the tax period. The purpose of this measure will take effect from 1 January 2016. 1. 2016, it is for the financial authorities to obtain data in the shortest possible time since the three months of quarterly payers are often used to gain a head start in the chaining of companies and to cover their tracks. Here I must stress that this is nothing new and nothing that would burden honest entrepreneurs. Recording obligation for entrepreneurs, which is essentially a control report, has existed since the introduction of VAT, i.e. since 1993. The difference is merely that they send it in electronic format to the tax administrator concerned after it has been completed. In my experience, I know it's an operation that weighs down an average accountant for two minutes, no more than that. So there are odd comments from the opposition that claim that some may have to hire external accounting firms. It also aims to increase the efficiency of public power in the fight against tax evasion by the Central Account Register Act, which is ready for submission to the Government at the Ministry of Finance. Some institutions authorised to obtain information subject to banking secrecy, in particular tax authorities, customs administrations, law enforcement authorities, Financial Analysis Service, intelligence services. The acquisition of account information will be allowed by a single query within a very short period of time to determine in which credit institution or interest entity has an account. No account balances will be included in this register. Business entities have already reported with local authorities accounts that serve for their business activity and in particular for transactions in the VAT field. The central account log is only intended to ensure an overview of all business accounts. The rapid acquisition of information is also a prerequisite for greater efficiency in the collection of taxes, measures against money laundering and property in criminal proceedings. Another measure is to prove the origin of the property. A draft law on proof of the origin of the property has already been submitted to the House. This is an amendment to the Income Tax Act. This proposal is well-known here, yet I would like to make a brief remark. There are voices that the financial authorities already have enough resources to control the assets at issue. At present, however, this is not the case. For one thing, they do not have sufficient personnel capacity for such a thing, but according to applicable legislation, they would not have enough tools to disprove the claims of some pseudo-businessmen about finding money in boxes or loans from their uncle. Experience is that in such cases, financial authorities often find themselves in need of evidence and, when measuring tax according to the so-called aids, they cannot tax unaccredited income at the actual amount. In addition to legislative initiatives where I could include the taxation of raw tobacco, where, as we know, excise duties have not been paid for years, I would also like to draw attention to the tightening up of some of the measures already in force. From 1. 1. 2015 tightened the conditions for authorised beneficiaries for the re-acceptance of selected products under the conditional exemption scheme and introduced the testing of the economic reliability of these entities. The aim is to eliminate both excise and VAT fraud, particularly when imported fuel. The conditions are also tightened to describe the tax payer as unreliable in order to avoid the possibility of these entities being involved in chain fraud. These were so far set up that they did not bring the desired effects. [[13.50 hours]] In fact, only such a payer, to whom tax was calculated according to aids of at least 500 thousand, could be considered unreliable had a cumulative non-payment of tax for three months of 10 million, etc. Now the rules are much stricter. For example, the default limit has been reduced 20 times - from ten million to half a million. Unreliable is such a payer who has been repeatedly determined by aids, does not respond to calls and repeatedly fails to submit compulsory VAT submissions. From January this year, it is sufficient to give false information about the real, real registered office of the company, which is a measure aimed at virtual and home offices of the company. In the area of the fight against tax evasion, the activities of the Financial and Customs Administration have also been made more effective. A system of one head has been introduced for carousel fraud, which means that by requesting the case of fraudulent chaining of many companies in different regions, it will withdraw to one place of inspection, which has all the information and all the responsibility. The suppression of the boundaries of local jurisdiction is very good and, according to my information, their complete abolition is also being considered, which would make tax control more effective in places where there is a huge concentration of taxpayers, which, statistically speaking, makes it possible to control subjects once every 200 years. It is the nationwide control competence that solves this negative phenomenon systemically and elegantly, because hiding in Prague is no longer meaningful. It is also worth mentioning the event called Help Prague, when in the last and this year twice a hundred tax controllers from the regions helped in inspections in Prague. And the result of this action? The value added tax was measured for approximately CZK 1.4 billion. The measures mentioned already bring their effects. In cooperation with the Financial Administration, Customs Administration and Police, there are events in which funds and property are confiscated where value added tax has not been specifically paid. In the first year of its existence, Kobra's anti-tax evasion unit prevented tax evasion for CZK 1.9 billion. For further successful action in detecting VAT fraud and excise duties, it will be crucial whether, in addition to the measures already mentioned, the Parliament will also approve the re-establishing of the criminality of the preparation of tax reductions. The main part of this crime is carried out during a period which can be described as preparing for a crime that is not criminal under the current regulation, so police cannot deploy operational techniques against the perpetrators, even if their actions are clearly towards fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, I have refuted repeated claims here that the government is fighting only small tax evasions, while large fraudsters and frauds leave unnoticed. The Ministry of Finance is now the leader in the fight against tax evasion not only in the Czech Republic, but we can say that throughout the EU. The proposed measures are comprehensive and complementary to each other. If today the opposition is preventing the adoption and introduction of an EET with reference to the fact that this concerns only five percent of possible tax evasion, then it is not only false, but, in fact, great hypocrisy. It is precisely today's opposition, which simultaneously rejects the law on proof of the origin of property, re-establishing the criminality of the preparation of tax cuts, and reservations are already being heard about the upcoming law on central accounting. In fact, the opposition does not support any of the measures that the government is promoting against tax evasion. Once it bothers that it only touches small fish, sometimes the privacy of large fish is threatened, then it is said that everyone will spy and report to everyone. But the opposition does not offer any alternative to improving tax collection because it does not know it and does not really want it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Šánová. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u28	Thank you for the floor. So I would like to reiterate the interest that the government has in its highest priority. Minister Babiš sits here and the Minister of Defence has arrived - so almost zero, we can see that. To my previous speaker. Her speech was probably written by the PR department of Agrofert. That's where I noticed almost the same terminology. However, I would like to point out one thing. My previous speaker only marginally touched the present proposal for electronic record of sales, rather praised her breadmaker Andrej Babiš. However, I would like to point out precisely the fact of the VAT problem, i.e. how electronic sales records work in relation to VAT. VAT is part of the price, so the customer pays it to the seller and becomes income, but not an accounting return. VAT is charged as a liability to the State and it is as if a temporary loan to the company until it has to repay it to the State. Each seller and service provider will thus have to register at the latest at the time of sale or at the time of sale. your credit for profit, record the price of your goods without VAT. However, the total value added tax on the purchase of each individual customer must also be reported under the proposed law, although not as part of the sale. This means registering VAT on the one hand, on the other hand VAT is valid during its settlement period, but it is documented immediately in the records of sales. I personally think, and also from the perspective of the accounting advisors, that it is indeed a pasquil, and not only in this case, from the pen of Minister Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u29	I thank Mr Kučer. Another duly registered member is Mr Radim Holeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u30	Mr President, honourable two members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. In general, it can be stated that it is a typical priority for the existing government: to monitor, control, regulate the company. Instead of creating space for a friendly business environment, they are mainly trying to complicate the lives of self-sufficient people as much as possible. The e-booking of sales, as prepared by the Minister of Finance, is undoubtedly inspired by the Croatian model, where, according to data, the grey economy is almost twice the size of our country. That in itself is tragic. Why do EETs not have a traditionally successful market economy? I'm asking. We don't know. Moreover, because of this system, they must recruit new officials to spend more money on the operation of this system. Finally, it will not be surprising if the entire system will be fiscally negative in the final, since the available data did not occur in Croatia after the introduction of the EET to any tangible increase in tax collection and, moreover, the number of self-employed persons significantly decreased. The rifts and confusion of this legislative bastard have already been discussed quite well. As Chairman of the Privacy Sub-Committee, I would like to take a look at the EET Act from the perspective of the protection of taxpayers' privacy, because what is particularly serious - there is potential for a completely unprecedented misuse of the data obtained. In advanced democratic legal states, the right to privacy is always interpreted in a broad way, and any interference with this privacy must show a huge degree of public interest, otherwise it is inadmissible. In totalitarian hard regimes, this right is irrelevant. After all, when we collect sensitive data about citizens, we have to ask ourselves two basic questions. First of all, is private intervention really that important? Or, better said, is it more important and beneficial for society to intervene in private by creating a database than not hitting it? Will it improve the current state of affairs? In this case, will the market be levelled, will the business environment be cleaned up? And I answer that question, no way. On the contrary. The situation in society is going to get worse by one group of companies being incredibly demoted in the sense of all stealing and disadvantaged in the sense that this type of information is not, of course, collected on others. I have not seen a single analysis that clearly demonstrates the positive effect of the introduction of the EET. This law will consciously deepen the notorious stupid mood in society, because the whole philosophy of the proposal is that citizens need to be treated as dirty suspects. [[14.00 hours]] The second, no less important question is always the purpose. For what purpose do I create a risk database of what people sell and buy when and where and how? I can get comprehensive information about costs, margins, suppliers. Valuable information in a competitive market environment that can be greatly abused. And I say, combined with Andrej Babiš's business, it's a deadly cocktail. The assessment of the effects of the proposal in relation to privacy and personal data was carried out by the appellant in a sentence that there was no impact. Because it is historically one of the greatest potential data collections, it is at least impudence! It is no wonder that he also sent a number of key comments to the proposal by the Office for Personal Data Protection in order to take the whole proposal back. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u31	Thank you, Mr Holečka. Now, with factual remarks, Mr Zavadil, after which Mr Fiedler. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon. Only, Radim through the President, in countries where it is not established, there is not so much stealing. That's one point. I could be done for now, but I still have one comment to make, and that's that ten years ago, here on this soil, I was on the outside, I wasn't here, I was debating to introduce it - now I'm not going to say EET, I'm going to register. Unfortunately, that did not happen by some mistake that I would not be divorcing. It was a shame. Because, among other things, now I don't want to say in the text as it is, among other things it fills it, or virtually. corrects a certain fair environment for all the groups that work on the market. And the fair environment isn't here. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u33	I thank Mr Zavadil for his point of view. Another point of fact will be made by Mr Fiedler, after whom Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would only briefly respond to the first duly signed up Mrs Šánová, who generally puts the opposition on the line. I would just like to repeat our position on this bill. We agree that taxes should be paid. We agree that pushing the right and honest tax collection is the right thing to do. We have reservations for calculations, and we are not sure that this will bring the effect that is declared. And I also have a bit of a doubt as to whether this will affect even large tax evasions, as Mrs Šánová said here. I'm a little worried that these big tax evasions will still be out of line with the scope of this law. Above all, I wanted to respond to Mr Radim Holeček's previous speaker and his comments on personal data. Mr. Vice Prime Minister's giving us a pamphlet. I read it with interest in the morning, not until now, as he gave it to me again. And I tagged the text: "The following checks will not go blind and burden you unnecessarily. They'll target where the data shows irregularities." I would like to get an answer to my question - whether all the collected and obtained data will be processed and checked, and if all the data that will reach the Ministry of Finance are not checked, on which basis the key will be decided which segment of the market, which data will be checked and which data will be left unobserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u35	I thank Mr Fiedler. Mr Kučera, Mr Benda, Mr Okamura, Mr Janulík, followed by Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u36	Thanks for the word. I must strongly reject the words of my previous speaker, Mr Zavadil, who said here that the Čech are stealing more than other nations. I am strongly opposed to this. You may say that to your trade unionists, Mr Zavadil through Mr President, but not on the premises of this House. This is indeed an outrage. That's one. Secondly, I would like to say one thing. We're talking about setting up a business environment. I think we all agree on this, there's really no contradiction in this. If we want to straighten the business environment, why are we using such a pointless tool as electronic sales records? That's what the debate is about. And please, let us also return to this discussion. If we want to straighten out the business environment, one of the elegant tools is required to issue receipts and a system of control purchases. I'm gonna come in for a check, I'm not gonna get a receipt, I'm not gonna get a ticket, I'm gonna get a second fine bigger, I'm gonna take a third license. He's gonna do the same thing. However, this will not do what Minister Babiš wants to record and collect data about his competitors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u37	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Okamura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as electronic sales records for businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are concerned, we can sum up the government's proposal in one word - that the good intentions made misguided to hell. For myself and for our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, I say frankly that we will not betray businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Indeed, the populism of this government goes beyond all bounds. Instead of starting from billionaires, from the richest who tax in tax havens, and gaining confidence in the state, and that should give the government a job, and that's a setsacratic job for four years, to gain the trust of citizens in the state, but the billionaires and the rich who have the analyses and have the money for them know very well that they don't want to pay the state, and they prefer to pay in tax havens because they pay in the bottomless well. There is proof that they know very well that there is no point in paying taxes here. So instead of starting with the great powerlessness of the state, the state is going to jump on the smallest and helpless. And that's the opposite procedure. It should really go from building trust in the state. And that's where this government is totally failing. We will therefore not support this proposal, and our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement will vote against it. And I call on the government to work really hard to work on the trust of citizens in a state that citizens don't trust after two years of this government's work. I would also like to say that the solution we offer in our movement is simple: to introduce a flat-rate tax when a businessman, according to the industry, pays a fixed amount by industry once a year and then, whatever he wants to do. This is how it works in developed Western countries. It would be a relief not only to the tradesmen, but also to the state would save billions for the huge apparatus that today controls taxes and which will grow even further after the introduction of online registrations. In other words, the state would not have to collect such large taxes because it would have lower costs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u39	I thank Mr Okamur for his time limit. With another point of fact, Mr Benda, Mr Janulík, followed by Mr Okleštěk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u40	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was also provoked by Mr Zavadil's speech to my response, who said that the registers were cancelled by mistake. They were not cancelled by mistake, please. We clearly pushed them through the Martians after you were here during the famous Gross-Paroubek times of social democracy with the Martians, so we declared before the elections that we would not admit anything like this, and immediately after the election we also abolished them, because really eternal attempts by the left that everyone who does business or tries to feed himself must stand up to one cop who controls him and who must look under his hand, we consider it completely wrong and totally immoral. Unfortunately, there has been a movement that looks like the right, maybe even some of its members think it's right-wing, but it's really a large-capital movement that's agreed with this left-wing idea, because big capital is always well understood by socialists, because it's best that there's only big companies and employees. And in the meantime, the businessmen, the innkeepers, the tailors, the chimney sweepers, and the others who walk in your houses, they need to be cleaned up and only have Mr. Zavadil's employees and the Agrofert, who will run the rest of the state against them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u41	I thank Mr Benda. With another point of fact, Mr Janulík, Mr Okleštěk, after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, co-workers, because it's technical when I may be more extensive in the proper one. Now I'd just like to say to the margo of some previous speakers: you're here calling for systems of control purchases and some sort of nonsense that have long been overcome. The electronic sales log system is due to technological progress. And you didn't listen to my colleague Pilný, who explained to you here that you can't stop life and technological progress. It just can't be undone. You can vote whatever you want here, but that life will outrun us again. And since technology is so far away that we're gonna be paying mobile phones in no time, there are states that cancel cash payments today, that's why the electronic sales log system. And your arguments are still slipping on the surface. You're talking about Croatia, but we took Croatia as an example because it actually uses the most modern technology. We took it because of the technology because they used what was technologically best at the time and on top, so that's why. And that's whether or not paying some flat-rates and that's just nonsense. Because life and technological progress are going to lead to just any sales sooner or later, if you want it or you don't, you're going to be able to reconstruct here until you're completely muscled, so it's just gonna get better! And it doesn't matter whether you do it or not. It's just technology beat us to it, and it's gonna keep getting ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u43	I thank Mr Janulík. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk, Mr Martin Novotný, followed by Mr Martin Novotný, is another registered comment. After that, Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, as my colleague Holeček said here, he did not see a single analysis that would safely prove the benefit of the EET, so it is obvious that we are talking here at the level of style exercises. I didn't see a single analysis that would safely disprove the benefits of EET.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u45	I thank Mr Oklešťek. Another point of fact is Mr Novotný, after whom Mr Okamura, Mr Benda, followed by Mr Kučera. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u46	Colleagues and colleagues, I am only through the President on my esteemed colleague, Janulík. For at least a hundred years, there has been an intellectual debate in Europe and around the world about whether technological progress is just a positive for human life or whether it is a more complex question. George Orwell's novel "1984" was not published in 1984, but already in 1949. And that question is very simple. Technological progress no doubt today makes it possible not only to record all sales, but to record anything you do in your home. Your Minister of Transport is now planning to monitor the full movement of all motor vehicles on our highways and see if we're going beyond speed. At this point, it would be quite easy to monitor even what you think, my colleague. So referring to technological progress in this is an argument that isn't very valid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u47	Thank you, Mr Novotný. Mr Okamura, Mr Benda, followed by Mr Kučera, Mr Volný after Mr Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u48	I would add to my previous performance: Yes, the innkeepers certainly do not pay taxes on all sales. But let's ask why. Most of them, especially in the poorer areas of the Czech Republic, are trying to keep prices as low as possible. And he just can't pay taxes at present. Likewise, citizens are no longer able to pay even higher prices in one single pub in that Moravian village. At the same time, the Czech Republic has one of the highest taxes in the world, yet this fact does not manifest itself in the lives of citizens. For example, in Switzerland or Japan, VAT is only 8 percent. We're 21st. This government is not working at all to go in that direction of tax cuts, to approach the most advanced countries in the world, and the government has also somehow forgotten to tell us, when it takes Croatia as an example, that when Chorvat introduced online sales registrations, they also reduced tradesmen sharply. Up to 60 percent. And the most remarkable thing is that the government is inspired in economically bankrupt Croatia. Instead of inspiring ourselves with tax systems in the most advanced Western countries, such as Switzerland. The government also forgot to say that Croatian innkeepers have absolutely different sales thanks to mass tourism than for example the innkeeper in Bystřice pod Hostýnem or in Otrokovice na Zlinsko. And, of course, they also have much higher prices in Croatia, which we all know who we were there. Again, I would say the problem of not collecting taxes in the Czech Republic is, above all, trust in the state. And on the example of the Scandinavian countries, it does not apply at all that the lower taxes, the more contentment in the state. In Scandinavia they have higher taxes than in the Czech Republic, while tax collection is higher and satisfied in the state. We have lower taxes than Scandinavia, and people are dissatisfied. Or maybe it's exactly what I'm saying. It's about people not trusting this state. You, your government, aren't working on this at all, you're dealing with particular matters, and you're not dealing with the principle and system that I've been talking about all this time, so that there's real democracy here, and people really believe that state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u49	Thank you, Mr Okamur. With another point of fact, Mr Benda, Mr Kučera and Mr Volný after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u50	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief response to Mr Oklešťek, who I otherwise fully respect. But the idea of being able to adopt a philosophy for lawmaking in the country that you used here and that you were talking about, that there is no study that would safely disprove the benefits of EET, is simply from another world. I don't think they belong in this House at all. Don't be mad at me! After all, the state can take any measure, especially measures that affect a million, maybe two million people, and that cost hundreds of millions, maybe billions, only if it is sure that it is good for something, and not if no one tells it is good for something. It's such a scary idea that whatever I can make up and write in the law, if you don't tell me it's good for something, it can do it. And by the way, foreign examples. In the EET in Croatia we have that it did not bring the Croatian budget or the kuna, respectively. not even an extra euro. But that's another thing. I just wanted to ask that we really think about legislation in a way that I have to be absolutely sure that it will help something before I can take any such step. I don't need to be told that this is bullshit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u51	I thank Mr Benda for his contribution. Another duly signed up is Mr Kučera, followed by Mr Volný, followed by Mrs Lorencová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u52	Thank you for the floor. More or less, my fellow Member, Mr Benda, took what I had to say about Mr Oklešťek. The argument really was very, quite publicly speaking, rickety. However, I would add to the address of the debate on our tax system. Instead of the government going through a system of reducing administration, simplifying the tax system and making entrepreneurs and businessmen pay VAT and pay taxes in general, it goes the other way. I'll remind you of the total fiasco of Secretary Andrej Babiš with the third rate of VAT. It is recent when he was standing here and screaming how the third VAT rate is absolutely necessary for drugs, as the third VAT rate is absolutely necessary for diapers and how prices on the market are reduced. How, please, did the prices of drugs fall? Nothing, Minister Babiš! Nothing. You brought only administrative chaos with a third rate of VAT. That's the result of your work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u53	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Volný and Mrs Lorencová, after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u54	Well, I, then, Mr President, colleagues, very briefly. I have a post later. I wanted to respond to Mr. Okamura. I'm sorry we won't get his vote to support the EET, but he's talking about how a credible government should be. He's not trustworthy to me because he's been sneaking around with some deputies club he doesn't have. So it's just an explanation. As far as my fellow speaker is concerned, we have to give proof of what it has brought. You're all turning to Croatia - that's where it brought about a huge shift in society. However, it may be true that in times of crisis, this did not manifest itself financially. [[14.20 hours]] But I would like to underline here, and I will talk about it in my contribution to Sweden, where in the left-wing Sweden, and Sweden, I think, is one of the cleanest countries in Europe, the right-wing government - the right-wing government - the EET in 2010 introduced in full. Basically registering sales in the form of registration cash registers. And coincidentally past or virtually. This week, Mrs Hornochová was at a European session, and she was confirmed by the current minister that this has brought about a huge shift in the equalisation of conditions for entrepreneurs. If, therefore, the higher VAT collection, which I will be talking about in my due allowance, goes away. But the evidence is here. You keep turning to Croatia. The Croatian model is because it is technically the most perfect, it was the last and all technology is used there. And there are a lot of big states, serious states, successful states that have introduced it and praised it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u55	Thank you, Mr Volný. With another factual remark, Mrs Lorencová, followed by Mr Laudát. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what scares me the most about this whole debate that has been going on here for so long in the galleys? The fact that all of my previous speakers, but also all of my colleagues, as we find ourselves in this House, we have all taken note that there are tax evasions here. The House is divided into fundamental opponents and those who advocate that the situation change radically. By the way, I don't believe it's going to be the announced 5 or 8 billion, I think it's going to be multiple times that. [[Call from the right: Less?]] Yes. Several times as many. Because for years, it's been working hard to make the situation we're in reach of perfection! And she almost reached it! But suddenly there's someone here who wants to bring some order into the nest! Of course you can smile, gentlemen on the right, because it is mainly the work of the right hand that we have actually achieved over the years. It's practically impossible for us to all want to clean up the manure we've actually created over the years! [[emphatically]] Not me, not my current colleagues, but predecessors! We look like we're building democracy, we want an advanced, economically strong society, like we're building a skyscraper! But in the basics, instead of good concrete, we have manure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u57	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u58	That's the last sentence. Now's the chance to make things right, now's the chance to make things right. I hope there are colleagues on the right too who will support the change!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u59	Out of respect for the lady, I'm tolerance alone. I hope my colleagues will forgive me. With another factual remark, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u60	Thank you. I have to respond to the predecessor. In the meantime, I checked out, wanted to respond to Mr. Volný, but then I thought I wouldn't do it. But please, through Mr President, keep those words about some dung. If someone's setting up a shityard that's for laughter and repulsive to the whole of Europe, it's you at this point. In any country, in a cultivated country in Europe, it is not for the recipient of billions of subsidies to decide them himself. It's not normal in any country - and it doesn't happen to us here, unlike you - so that somebody would swoop over crown jewels and shake hands with murderers. In our time, it was not for you to vote on the subsidies going to your chairman. To paralyze selective sections. [[The noise in the hall.]] It wasn't for you to start spying on people almost to home level because you don't know what freedom is, how strong a link is between a state and a citizen or between an entrepreneur, his business and a citizen or an employee. This has also been demonstrated by Mrs Lorencová by her incredibly stupid speeches both on the Economic Committee and on the Budget Committee. And I suppose it even insists on all the nonsense and outrages that deny the fundamental elementary parameters of freedom and democracy! But I say, she's a lady, I'll be very tolerant not to use any harsher words. I don't know what kind of manure you've been talking about in the past few years. I'm not saying it was good here, that there were no godfathers. Now it's just changed, methods have changed - from thieves to sophisticated thieves!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u61	I want to assure not only Mr Laudát that if he used harsher words, I will turn it off or interrupt the House's negotiations. As you've been informed, we'll all be in charge. With another factual remark, Mr Kučera, then Vice-President Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u62	So I'd sum it up. Mr Zavadil here told us that Čech are thieves, Mrs Lorencová, that Czechs are manure. Thank you for the words of the representatives of this government coalition. I'm really sick of her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u63	I thank Mr Kučer. With the factual remark of Vice-President Jermanová. prosit, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u64	Good afternoon. I originally did not want to speak in this debate at all. But I must say that this day has shown again that the negotiations of some of my colleagues do not reach even the behaviour of the regulars pub of the fourth price category. I am very sorry through Mr President. Mr. Laudate, the only one who curses and uses rude language here is you. And if a lady comes out in years of age and says her opinion, she's just entitled to it. [[The noise in the hall.]] And if you don't like what he's saying, I respect that, but we're gonna follow the rules of manners. All we've been hearing since this morning is swearing, and I don't think it belongs on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. So let's go back to arguments without insults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u65	Thank you, Vice President Jermanová. Now, with Mrs Lorencová's point of fact, after that, Mr Zavadil. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to make a brief summary of what the money from the grey economy is... For what's passing through here, and we all know it. It sails completely unrecorded. And that's what's threatening right now that the money will be registered, everyone will know where the money came from. I just want to summarize that it's not just restaurants. They offer because most of us go there, most of us know that it's hard to find a waiter in a restaurant who doesn't get much of his income cash. What's the money for? First of all, to fund organised crime. We have to realize that. And I already consider this to be an absolutely fundamental thing that should make us all raise our hand to introduce electronic sales records. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u67	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. With another factual remark, Mr Zavadil. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u68	Thank you. I believe that when one of us gets blood in the head, he doesn't think and he doesn't listen. I made it clear that maybe there's more to steal from us than in the West. It's not that we're a nation of thieves. And if you gentlemen and ladies were to drive as many vehicles as I drive every day, there's a table in every vehicle that warns all strangers that they're stealing. That also proves something. I didn't make that up. And as far as what Mr Benda, Mr Benda- has said here, has Zavadilův the staff. It made me laugh a little bit. I understand when someone is born in the House, that he is a little bit torn from reality, and that, in some way, the problems of those people that have been mentioned here, whether they are tailors, housekeepers, etc., maybe he doesn't know so much about them. I know a lot about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u69	Thank you, Mr Zavadil, and his speech has also brought about a shrink of factual remarks. So first, Mr Kučera, then Mr Fiedler, then Mr Janulík, then Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u70	I must confess that it opened my eyes to Mrs Lorencová, because from now on, I will stop at my home, in our town, to tip because perhaps the innkeeper is financing organized crime there. She even said somewhere, I read her statement that even the rental murders, so I'm gonna tell him this message from the representative of the government coalition and the Agrofert movement that he's funding organized crime, and I'm really probably gonna stop going to that restaurant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u71	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Fiedler, after which Mr Janulík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u72	Thank you. I'm going to try to move the political debate back a little bit to a material level. I see it's shrinking again, or it's heading towards some kind of shrink of factual remarks, and I wouldn't like to hear my question because... Let me just say - I don't know if Mrs Lorencová or Šánová said that there are only two groups in the House. There's still our MP who doesn't say he's against it, and he doesn't say he's totally up for it. We will monitor the debate as it develops, and we will take the final decision accordingly. But why did I take my word for it? I would like to call on you, Minister, once again to answer my question. It's pretty crucial to me, I'll repeat it. In the brochure you are giving us, thank you for it, it is beneficial informative, it is stated - or my question was so whether all the collected data that will reach the Ministry of Finance will be evaluated, and if not all will be evaluated, only part of the data will be evaluated, on the basis of which key the segment will be selected, the part of the data that will be checked and which will be stored somewhere without their control. For me, this is a pretty crucial question from the point of view of what my colleague Holeček here was talking about the protection of personal data, or how it will be here with this. I would ask for an answer to this particular question of mine on the substance of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u73	Mr. Ambassador, I will please you, because the Minister is claiming priority rights, but I can give him the floor when the factual remarks are over, because they have priority. Another factual point - Mr Janulík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u74	I'm just short on the margo of my predecessors and my colleague Lorencová. You are a typical example of this, it is a matter of two thousand years old, that if there is no argumentatio ad hoc, then ad personam. So, please, cut to the chase, and stop de-honesting the previous speakers. You've been cursing at us for two years, and if we slide to your level, it's really not gonna be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u75	I thank Mr Janulík. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura, followed by Mr Laudát, Mr Kalousek, followed by Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u76	First, the response to Mr Janulík. If he were so strict with everyone, that's fine, but when his colleagues insult the right-wing opposition, he still claps. He's gentle. When I'm handing out punches, I have to be able to accept them, too. It's not like I'm handing them out around me and I can't accept them. And when someone accidentally rubs themselves over me, it makes me - oh, my God, what are you doing? If you behave like this, I believe that most of your colleagues or our colleagues will behave like this. And I have a request through the Vice-President to Mr Zavadil. We have a fair relationship. And if we are talking about personal attacks, then I do not know why Mr Janulík did not also blow up Mr Zavadil, who would pick up my colleague Marek Benda with a personal attack. How long he has been in the Chamber of Deputies has nothing to do with this law. And all I'm saying is that Marek Benda's family was actively fighting communism, and at least in the last two elections, he wasn't in an optional position, and he got to the Chamber of Deputies thanks to preferential votes. I think we should respect that and not judge the performance by whether anyone's been here for two years or 18 years. I would ask Mr Zavadil to do so. I believe it was extraordinary and it won't happen again. It doesn't make any sense. But you see! That didn't bother the government MPs. So I say, measure them all the same, then the debate will certainly be more sophisticated and more relevant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u77	I thank Mr Stanjur. With another point of fact, Mr Laudát, after whom President Kalousek, followed by Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u78	Thank you. I want to thank my colleague Lorencová. I'm not gonna apologize. I think we should have a chat with Vice-President Jermanová, because I hope that after she's been specified, it's clear to all of you what she said here. I didn't know to this day that maybe Palivec was actually part of organized crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u79	I thank Mr Laudát. With a point of fact, President Kalousek, after whom Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u80	Thank you. I want to thank you for the brochure I got on the bench. In the morning anyone interested could get a doughnut and a brochure full of lies. I would like to ask you a polite question as to whether there would be any better truthful information at the price of being without a doughnut. About what Mr. Janulík said. I mean, he's been ending a long and difficult week, but he's really mixed up in directions. He was talking about slipping to somebody's level. The way he put it, it wouldn't be about slipping, it would be about climbing. He's obviously not much of a man, and I don't blame him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u81	I thank Mr Kalousek. Those were factual remarks. Now with priority rights, Minister Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been asked to do it again. But I don't know if it makes sense again because I was dating these receipts here, and it's also in the brochure. [[It shows the brochure in question.]] We even wrote a little bit here to make it even more understandable, because the opposition obviously doesn't understand it or doesn't want to understand it. So that's the receipt the customer gets, and the same receipt - the data is here. The financial authority will see the information from your receipt. What's in there? The identity number of the entity and there is total sales and VAT. I don't understand why you keep lying and saying that the IRS is gonna see something. Mr Fiedler, through the President, the Ministry of Finance has nothing to do with this. All data goes online to financial management into a specially organized classified warehouse, data database. Once again, the financial administration will see nothing. I don't know how to say this anymore. I've said it x times. And about control. Of course in Croatia it has it online and they watch by sales whether it is billed there or not, and accordingly the financial administration works and goes to checks. Last week, the Chorvat announced that they had a surplus budget for the first time, that there was an annual increase in VAT collection by 7.5 billion. The collection of excise taxes, income tax, etc., VAT collection for July was record-breaking - 15 billion, the best result achieved since the introduction of tax reforms, so it all works. And I'd still read Sweden here. We chose Croatia because it is a state-of-the-art data transfer system. That's all. And if the Croatian economy works, it doesn't work, it's irrelevant. The point is, the Chorvat were the last and have state-of-the-art technology. And here we have Sweden, which has traditionally high tax morale and basically a share of the grey economy - it is also pointed out that this is not a large share of the grey economy - so in Sweden the share of the grey economy in 2013 was 14 percent and in us 15.5%. [[14.40 hours]] And those registers in Sweden. We don't have register cash registers, it's just a data transfer that the dealer is still exhibiting. So the law was passed in 2007 and began to apply since 2010. And it was Fredrik Reinfeldt's government. And what did the right-wing Swedish government say then? [[emphatically]] "The bill proposes a new law on register cash registers. This proposal is in order to protect serious business from unfair competition by dishonest entrepreneurs and increase the legitimacy of the tax system. Unfair competition leads to a tax burden on only some taxpayers, which can lead to a serious risk of excluding traders from the market. Moreover, tax control is insufficient, and thus confidence in the tax system is also negatively affected, as a result of which the will to implement democratically adopted decisions falls." That's right-wing Sweden. So I don't understand why our right-wing opposition doesn't inform our colleagues in Sweden, where they set it up, no one has a problem with that. And I repeat again. There's no data on who consumed or bought the Financial Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u83	Thank you, Minister. Mr Vladimír Koníček, Mr Karel Fiedler, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u84	Dear Minister, when the first reading of this law was discussed, and you brought the big receipts and what is being sent, I warned you that there was a lack of data. Unfortunately, you did not learn how to prepare this brochure, and again there are some data missing from both the receipt and the data sent to the tax office. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u85	Thank you, Mr Koníček. Before I give the floor to Mr Fiedler, two more apologies. From 15 o'clock, Mr Jiří Koskuba apologizes and from 14.20 am to 20.00 am, Mr Karel Augustin Andrle Sylor apologises. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u86	Thank you for the floor. I'll try the third time. Minister, I'm sorry, I don't think you've listened twice to what I asked. I'm not saying there's anything in those receipts about VAT, I wasn't even talking about it. Please take a look at the log of what I asked you. I'll try my question for the third time: It is page 22 of your brochure, second paragraph, and I will read once again the conclusion of this paragraph: "The following checks will not go blind and burden you unnecessarily. They'll target where the data shows irregularities." And I'm asking, for the third time, if all the data that goes to the tax office are evaluated, because there will obviously be a considerable volume of them, and if all the data is not evaluated, which key will determine where the check you're talking about will be directed, where the data will point the discrepancies. One more time, if we understand each other. I'm not talking about receipts, I'm not talking about what's on them. I ask what is written in your brochure - it will target where data shows irregularities - whether all data will be checked or only part of it, and if only part of it, which key will be used to select the part of the data that will be checked. I beg your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u87	I thank Mr Fiedler. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have said that I am not going to perform, but nevertheless I will still use my 40-year IT experience and allow myself to respond through Mr Fiedler, the President. When you make some so-called. datamailing, i.e. mining the data, that's how you work with all the data. And a program that detects irregularities, i.e. In some establishment that has such a profile and such a profile, there is something completely different from another establishment that has a similar profile, so then the controller goes there for sure and the money that the tax administration may have invested in it will be paid. It is a question of a relatively simple program, which I would estimate at least two to three million crowns. And, of course, it's necessary to have enough data and all the data to collect it. I'm not talking about any personal data, I'm just talking about what the profile of the establishment is, what the turnovers and other things are. It's a simple task for every programmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u89	I thank Mr Pilný. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u90	I thank Prime Minister Pilný. I'm a former programmer. I believe you do, too, and I have no doubt about it. But let's agree - who's gonna find out the profile of the establishment? I understand what you're saying, who fills the database, who makes the code list of establishments, based on what keys and what data are we going to create, who assigns it, that the restaurant in the village where I live, in Little Hoštice, is what profile? [[unintelligible]] Is it based on population? Based on the position? According to the market price of the land? How will the state know? You make it so simple. You're right. If I have all this data, if someone makes some kind of diner code list, then maybe I'm able to compare it. But we'll compare restaurants according to what? According to the residents who live in the village, according to the street, according to the location? It's not that trivial. Yes, if I have all the data at my disposal, yes, then maybe it'll be two for three million, I don't know, if it's gonna be a reputable company, it'll cost 30. I don't want to argue about that. But don't serve it as a simple task. You won't find out anything about the profile of a particular establishment from these reports. Or what? Look, take the receipt you see there, and what profile do you get from it? What do you know about the restaurant? How will you judge that? I'm glad we're having this kind of debate, but it's not as trivial as you put it. Or will the state outside this law create a database of plant profiles? And if it's the businessmen and it's not the innkeepers, we'll judge the chimney sweepers, and we'll have different ones? That when he's in a bigger city, he's expected to have more? And what if the employees are leaving Opava, which has 60,000 inhabitants, and the company that operates the services has major contracts in Ostrava, which has over 300,000? It's not that trivial. Don't make fun of us, this data, this report, when it's in the error manual. And then, Mr. Chairman, which I'm sure we can agree on. The sentence in the manual - security is... I paraphrase it a little bit, I didn't bring it with me to quote it - data security is given by the fact that it's online, it's really smiling. We're both gonna laugh about that. After all, those data that are meant to be protected are in isolated systems and are not connected to the Internet. And don't say no. Because that's how you protect them much better than when it's online connected. We don't have to convince ourselves that we know a little bit about it. And I've been in the field a long time, and today, young programmers are somewhere different than when we were programming me or you. But such a sentence - data security given by it's online. I'm laughing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u91	I thank Mr Stanjur. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u92	Thank you for the floor. I'm a little sorry to have been brought into the expert discussion. But, of course, that's not an isolated database, there's a trade register here, on which, according to the data I had at my disposal, I stopped on which I spent 100 miles. crowns a year. There's a lot of data in the trade register that can be connected to that, of course. And there are other registers. And then there's the tools to look up the relation between the data. It's a purely mathematical problem. I'm not gonna tire of him. But, of course, from an isolated database of what anyone pays, it can't be found out, but there are other registers and other tools that can be done. That's the answer to the first question. I wasn't talking about data security. Moving this amount of data and storing it is, of course, a big security problem. And I suppose I don't know the details that the experts of the Ministry of Finance who do this or do it have to deal with this problem somehow, because the problem really is, I have to agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u93	I thank Mr Pilný. And since I do not see any further factual comment, we will proceed with the debate. Another duly registered member is Mr. MP... I'm sorry - the Minister with priority rights has preferred you, Mr. MP. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u94	How will the data be checked? Well, the difference, as the Financial Administration controls data today, is very uncomfortable, because, of course, it controls them with a time delay, and we lack control reports mainly on the biggest VAT leaks. And they have it online in Croatia. So there's a team of specialists, so they shut down the bar the Croatian Prime Minister went to, because they found out that they thought that if the Prime Minister went there, they couldn't face it. So the system has clear rules on how to analyze it, and I think it's mainly the problem of Financial Administration. Of course, even in Croatia, they had problems that the minister had to actually... There's a difference in Dubrovnik, for example, when the restaurant is on the main street and when it's on the side, and they've done their analysis. And, of course, it is also a question of control of the Financial Administration and of the random purchases that we are planning. So the difference is that the Financial Administration, the analytical team, will see it online. So, de facto, if he suspects that some salesman is cheating, and based on his analysis, he's gonna focus on him and find out that he's not facturing, then there's gonna be a checkup. So I don't even know the system in detail, but the advantage of the system is that we'll see it online. And that's the fundamental revolutionary change in the whole system, that the data that's being displayed, the receipts, one way or another, will now be transferred online instead of the data being requested on the basis of a check that, for example, just walked once every 200 years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u95	Thank you, Minister. With a point of fact, Mr Kučera is now in charge. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u96	Thank you for your word. The Minister is constantly referring to Croatia here. I think there were many of us in Croatia this year, we all saw how it works. My experience, because I've been going to Croatia for a very long time, and I like that country, and this year I've been, too, so I've been really focused on it. And I've been looking objectively at where they give the receipts and where they don't. So at the grocery stores, the cashier will actually give you a receipt from every checkout. Then you come to the big ice cream shop, the stone shop, where you open the door and enter. And there's also a connection to the ET - and each third one gets a receipt. It just clicks somewhere, it doesn't click somewhere. The result is that, and that's what we're always trying to say, if anyone's a fraud, then they'll always find a way to cheat. And if anyone's honest, they're just honest. By this regulation, we will only make life harder for the honest, and those crooks will find a way, just as they found it in Croatia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u97	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u98	Thank you. I think it's gonna be the last one, but I'm glad we've moved on really to a substantive discussion of the problem of the law, and not the political shootout that took place here. I just have to say that the answer didn't calm me down, but it left me with persistent doubts about the data, about their processing, about the security. I'm not a programmer. Professionals in this field, Mr Pilný, Mr Stanjura, both said it was a big security problem. As a layman, I have no choice but to acknowledge that fact. And Mr. Vice Prime Minister, don't be mad at me, but the fact that the restaurant that the Prime Minister of Croatia went to has been closed is a completely zero argument for me. Don't be mad at me. That's category zero argument. I don't know if the finance minister in Croatia is a political person other than the Prime Minister, or if he doesn't have a restaurant there, they wanted to check on him. I'm sorry, that's an argument you'd rather not make.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u99	I thank Mr Fiedler and Mr Beznoska, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know exactly who praised or said that Michal Kučera could be the new Mirek Kalousek. He's been here about seven times on tech. Well, I hope it doesn't always be like that. I will, of course, take my speech very briefly. We agree here that we all have the same view that we want to eliminate the grey economy, that we want to have a fair, healthy competitive environment with equal conditions for all involved, but we just can't hit who would choose what recipe to do it. And if we have an electronic sales record bill on the table, this bill doesn't seem like an appropriate tool to me, and that's why I'm strictly against it. And I'm going to say some of my reasons for doing this. The first objective, the removal of the grey economy, has no relevance in statistics, because according to Professor Schneider's research, repressive measures, and I consider EET to be a form of repressive measures, do not lead to a reduction in the grey economy. He illustrates this on his conclusions, which he made 15 years after all the countries of the European Union. And, in his view, the low tax rate is much better and more beneficial for the economy in the fight against the grey economy, we should talk about this, the low amounts of levies, we should talk about this, quality and predictable institutions and, where appropriate, how the labour market is regulated. Those are essential things, EET is just a letter, part of it. And since it's part of it, I'll give you some numbers. The EET system, as envisaged, according to the Supreme Audit Office's report, only 7 percent of the VAT loss is due to the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, to which this system is currently targeted. The remaining 93% is the area that we should primarily correct and address. And if you're interested in numbers, I'll continue with the checks in the Czech Republic. Financial Administration - 33 thousand checks - I say rounded numbers, Czech Social Security Administration - 106 thousand checks, State Office of Labour Inspection - 34 thousand checks, VZP - 206 thousand checks, Czech Trade Inspection - 37 thousand checks, Office of Labour - 13 thousand checks. And I could go on like this. I figured that together, people in that business environment would weigh about 400,000 checks a year, or maybe a lot more than 400,000 a year. And he has to do all that in his work. And every one of these authorities says he's focused on trouble spots. So I'm asking if there's enough checks and if we're really going to put on another 24-hour check every day for seven days a week. Martin Novotný was like the Orwell state here. We don't want that. Croatia repeatedly. Almost every one of you, including those who took technical notes, mentioned Croatia. Minister Babiš here said some numbers, so I'll tell you the numbers that I found in the statistics from Croatia. In addition to understanding that we can leave ourselves with the Croatian top technology because it introduced the EET last, and maybe it really has some advantage - but what happened in Croatia? After the introduction of EET unemployment increased from 16 percent to 17.3%. The number of businessmen after the introduction of the EET fell from 88 160 to 80 911, or by 9 thousand businessmen during the year less. And it wasn't, as Mrs. Lorencová says, definitely all the con men. VAT collection decreased by 1 %. We'll be against it. These negative consequences are merely evidence of Professor Schneider's study, which I have told you about here, that the problems we should be dealing with really lie somewhere else. [[15.00 hours]] The big problem, and it was also mentioned, is the possibility of abuse, because the blackout in the selection of events is just fun, according to which the problem that EET brings is the gain of an enormous amount of easily exploitable data. I'm not an IT guy, I've listened to the debate, but I'm not sure it's possible for a complete mapping of competition with a precise volume of sales to be used at some point in time. And if anyone claims that this is not possible, then you yourself from your surroundings or from the press - even in ours, even from interrogations, the leaks are leaving classified documents, so it will be very easy from EET and very easy to exploit in a competitive fight. The introduction of the EET will fall on all of us. It's not just the business, but it's gonna affect everyone's lives every day. The waiting times in the queues will be extended, the higher costs of the tradesmen are very likely to be reflected in prices, there will be problems in technology, this means problems with data connection, and the result will be that we will not be satisfied at all anyone. The explanatory memorandum to this law lists the one-off cost of acquiring those items from 6,000. for several hundred thousand crowns for larger companies. Additional costs will be added to internet connection, software rental, printer papers, etc. etc., i.e. from this point of view, I think that this is disproportionate and, above all, because this is, in volume, a very small matter that is to bring about 12 billion. to the state budget, a pointless and useless thing. The law itself is very complicated. There's a whole bunch of procedural stuff here. Remember for yourself the way it was. Originally, everyone will have the register, then just some businessmen, then it's back again, plus the cashier with the receipt lottery. Just a whole series of things that in the very course of the law -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u101	Ambassador, I will interrupt you for a moment and we will wait for at least one member of the government to arrive. It is not customary for us to act on a government proposal without members of the government. This is not even possible under the Rules of Procedure or in the case of non-governmental proposals. I'll wait a minute, I'm sure they'll arrange for the presidents of the coalition clubs... [[The President is waiting for a member of the government to arrive.]] I respect the fact that the agreement of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs has somehow been given, so I will not interrupt the negotiations. I was just interrupting my colleague Mr. Beznoska for a moment. Well, we have Minister Herman here. Calm down, please! Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u102	Yes, thank you. We have the Minister of Culture here, we can proceed. So even at that stage of the procedural process, as the law came about, a whole lot of things appeared, so the law just isn't well prepared. In addition, it also lacks any criminal liability in the event of unauthorised breaches and misuse of citizens' private data. End of závěr. We're going for a mosquito with a big swatter. It's useless, dysfunctional, expensive, uncomfortable, and I consider businessmen and small entrepreneurs especially to be very decent people, and we don't really have to make life harder for them than they deserve. Less regulation, more freedom. That's also what I repeated. I repeatedly say that in this House, we should simplify the life of entrepreneurs and citizens, not overcomplicate with our laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u103	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. That was my colleague Beznoska. Before continuing with further applications for the general debate, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS Club, is now making a point of fact. A colleague will be ready. Nykl, who also has a factual point. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u104	Thank you. I'm just talking about data protection. I was one of the few who was very tempestuous here against the inspection reports. And I'd like to hear from the Minister whether the data will be connected or isolated because it's a big difference for possible data abuse. On the one hand, I'll know what I'm buying, and on the other hand, if I add information in which hours I have what revenue, in which place I have the sales - not from whom I agree not to see it, yet, because I'm afraid someone will eventually think of it, but it doesn't matter - I'll know the sales, the hours and the location of the establishment, and I'll have a list of all the invoices received in another database. If I want to open a new establishment, this is key information for me whether there is a place on the market or not, whether it is a neighborhood in which there is still space, there are sales high, or it is a place where there are low sales already with existing operators. So I have a question about whether the information in the database will be separated, each of them will be managed by another part of the financial office, or by a system of financial offices, to be precise, or to cooperate. Then there's the problem of data protection and the possibility of abuse is much more serious than those two isolated systems, because apart from having one, the other transmissions, security, then manipulating it, comparing it, and getting a lot more people to the data. And it's quite an important question. I don't need to know the answer today. I understand that this is a rather detailed question. I think there'll be enough time to discuss this for a long time, but let's just take it as a list of questions I'd like to know the answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u105	I thank Mr Stanjur. I have here a factual remark from my colleague Nykl and then from Minister Babiš and then from Mr Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u106	Thank you for the floor. The big problem for us to convince some Members that it works is that, indeed, when they talk about Croatia - and today, for example, Mr Holeček, now Mr Beznoska, they simply don't speak the full truth about Croatia, they use distorted data and, of course, it is such a popular policy. I wanted to talk more about Croatia in the general debate, so now I'm just saying, let them stay here, tell them what's true, what's done with EET in Croatia, that it's not like we ever see EET headlines end up in Croatia with a fiasco and so on. It's not true, there's a few arguments against it, and I'll say them in my performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u107	I thank my colleague Nykl. Now, Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u108	Thank you. I wanted to answer - I think Mr Koníček is called - that the data is correct, Mr colleague through the President, but he is not listening to me now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u109	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u110	The data is correct. It's all there as it should be. I just checked. I think a colleague will explain. About the databases, yes, we are the EET project - it is, of course, a political matter today, although I think it is clear that every reasonable person must support it. Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, yes, it is separate, because we are still primarily, and that is true, fighting against large tax evasion, the way organised crime steals our VAT. This is why we imported Kobra and we imported control reports and that is why we are fighting in Brussels, unfortunately so far unsuccessfully. I've been fighting there for 16 months. Last Friday I was in Luxembourg and the European Commission called on individual Member States to fight VAT evasion. I got up there and I was warned that I wasn't talking on the subject because I've been trying to push back charge for 16 months so we could decide about reverse charge, that the quick mechanism in the European Commission is meaningless, but they obviously didn't care. So it's separate, and it's obviously the pairing of VAT on input and output, which, as a financial administration, significantly improves the comfort of analysts and reduces the number of controls for entrepreneurs and also accelerates cash flow entrepreneurs. Because today the system evaluates a company, and sometimes it's not an information time--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u111	Minister, he has made a point of fact -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u112	- and VAT is being withheld, and this system will allow us to pay back faster to those entrepreneurs. So it's separate. I'll sign up one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u113	If you'll just sign in and you'll have plenty of space, Mr. Secretary. Two factual points. First Prime Minister Pilný, then President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am already trying to convince a number of people, Members, that we are living in the age of the digital economy. I would allow myself to assure President Stanjuru, through Mr President, that commercial companies, if you enter social networks, whatever you buy, etc., do not need any data from the state EET or anything like that. They just have them. And they have them about you, Mr. Ambassador, and there's nothing you can do about it, because it's not regulated in any way. The state hasn't grown up yet, we're talking about a big brother, maybe it'll happen sometime, but commercial companies have a huge lead on it. I remember an American journalist betting no one would find out she was pregnant. It was known on social media for two months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u115	Thank you. Mr Stanjura is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u116	Let's do it in person first. We're not betting, but I'm one of those guys who pays cash at the club store who doesn't have club cards and who don't shop online. I'm making it a little harder for the data digs who, out of all the data people voluntarily provide, voluntarily concentrate them and sell them commercially. That it's a regular industry, I didn't question that. I just don't want the state doing business in the industry. That's all. About the reverse charge question. We, already our government, tried to push through it and hit our head against the wall in Brussels. And when the minister first talked about it a year ago and something, we told him it was a good idea, and we thought he'd come across that experience. And that's not a criticism of the Czech Finance Minister to make you understand. At that time, France was at the forefront of resistance. I don't know if anything's changed. We didn't want it all. We wanted it for fuel. At that time, France was at the forefront of resistance. And defeating France in such a dispute is not easy at all. So we can say what we want, that's for all the Eurohujers who say that only good is coming from Brussels. We're dealing with things. We're wondering if the Olomouc shapes or something have a trademark. And in this matter, the national interests in particular of the large states play a vital role, and then it is a very problematic and useful thing that we can also have agreement on our political scene to enforce within the framework of European rules. That's the reality. And I'm saying, it's not a criticism of the Minister of Finance, it's just that the experience was already in the last term. And at this point, when I listen to it, it's a very similar experience, because when it doesn't move in 16 months, it's obvious that the resistance is organized and quite powerful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u117	A point of fact, President Votava, then colleague koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u118	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would just like to respond to my honourable colleague Beznoska, who has spoken here about how many businessmen are actually going to end. I'd like to ask him if he has any calculation of the cost burden, what the businessmen are going to cost. I've never seen one of these before. They keep saying that it will burden them so much that they will have to quit. I don't know if it's the office paper or the Internet connection. Those are hundreds of crowns. So I don't see it as a huge, enormous load. Perhaps by not being able to cut sales, that's about something else, that maybe they won't be competitive if they don't cut sales, that's probably possible. But I really didn't see any calculation from you, and I'd quite like you to put forward a calculation of the cost load in connection with the introduction of the EET.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u119	I thank Mr Votav. Two more factual points. First from Mr Vladimír Koníček, then Mr Beznoska, also with a factual remark. Then maybe he'll get into a colleague's Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u120	Even after the consultations, Minister - I do not know if the Minister is present. [[President: The Minister is in the foyer.]] ... came to say that the readings are all there. After the consultations - they're not all there. So I insist - or in that part - I beg Mr Brázdil to lend me this - he will not lend me this, okay. He's got it written down, because we've really consulted. [[Mr Kováčik passes the brochure to the speaker; the speaker rejects the words:]] No, Mr. Brázdil has written what's missing. I'll say one number. There's just no tax base on what's being sent. According to Section 19, it's supposed to be there. He's not there. Period. Is there something missing? It's missing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u121	Okay, thank you for keeping time. We're good to go. Now Mr Beznoska also makes a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u122	Thank you for the floor. Just a short answer for President Votava. Of course, I asked what it would look like at the tips. One checkout won't be enough to serve a customer. We can imagine that the cost will be much higher with the acquisition of equipment and other things, paper etc. I don't want to say any more because I think this analysis, these impacts expressed - because you have all the data relevant - should have been part of that report, absolutely expressed. That's one thing. And the other thing. I'll go back to Croatia one more time. I was in Croatia for eight days, I got a receipt somewhere, I just didn't get one somewhere. Again, whoever wants to cheat is cheating in EET space. And one last short reminder. I have the same experience with Budapest. The Maďar also have EET in place. I asked at the Hungarian bar because it happened to be a native from Slovakia, how it works. Very lapidar response - we can deal with EET. What we could not cope with - to say the complete answer - was a smoking ban. No smoking in that bar was minus 40 percent in sales. We'll get to that in a minute. Let these people live. They're not all cheaters. And don't hit everyone on the head if only someone, and they're too few, cheats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u123	Thank you for keeping time. A colleague of Mr. Votava - but he cannot have the floor, because the priority is the electronic application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u124	With priority rights, I'm not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u125	I didn't give you my word because my colleague Fischerová, who also applied for a factual remark, electronically, so she beat you to it. So now, Mrs Fischerová, then Mr Václav Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u126	Thank you for the floor. I will also try to answer - through Mr President - Mr Votav. Because as we all get to know it every step of the way, I've had x meetings with businessmen mainly in the field of innkeeping, hospitality, and I'll add that for them - for the smaller ones, we're not talking about those large restaurants such as large hotels, hotel chains, where everyone has it already established. But if you look at the costs, I'm waiting here for us to get this from the government, exactly from the minister - coming - finance, so we know, and especially for the entrepreneurs to know how much the entry costs are going to cost. But they, in addition, as the Czech innkeepers gather to do it, and very often, so when they tell me every day what it all means, just as my colleague Beznoska says, at the time of the traffic, so he must have more cash registers for various operations, because at the right noon etc. The traffic there is really very busy. And on top of that, there are other costs. I was listening today to an interview with Deputy Secretary Simona Hornochová, who asked if there might be any artists involved in the sales log, for example, she said she didn't know, which surprised me. And the worst part is, we don't really know, so it's been said here today who's gonna be in that category in time. I think that's the uncertainty. And it was also said this morning, it was on ČT 24, that further decision-making by the government will be introduced gradually, who will join this category. And that seems to me, within the legal framework, to be completely impervious, and the gray economy can spill into black. This is the worst, especially in small villages, where there are small pubs and entrepreneurs will quit, so it will be walking - you can already invent different ways in which private rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u127	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Václav Votava now. Mr Rais will prepare for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u128	I'm not even saying that what a businessman or businessman is a thief, a crook, a fraud. I'm sure you didn't. But, of course, there are those who try to cheat and try to cut their sales. I don't think any of you will question that from the right side. But just to get back to calculating the cost. If you're using the argument that a number of businessmen, as it sounds from you, should be an avalanche of businessmen, they'll end, so you should also support your argument with some calculation or some number. And you didn't bring that up to this day. Maybe I'd believe it was a big load, that it could be, but you guys didn't do anything like that. And as far as I can tell, I think there's some quantification of how much it does in this minister's material. They're probably hundreds of crowns. It was given by the Treasury. I believe it when the Treasury gave it to me. But if you want to use the argument, you should support it in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u129	Thank you. Now, therefore, the factual remark made by Mr Rais. Mr Fiala will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u130	Have a good afternoon. In response to a colleague: they say a soldier cares, a soldier does. This information is public. Cost of cashiers. And if we're going to talk about the very poorest guy in the most remote pub, it's about 5,000 crowns, the cash register, which could be relatively large, but at the same time it's going to be tax relief for the innkeeper, and that's going to be 5,000 crowns. We could go on like this. We're talking digitalization. It's pretty common for families today. It's under 100 crowns a month - costs. The costs are completely human. There's no point in haunting the innkeepers on whom there was an example of some nonsense. I've entered into a discussion, I'll look into it in more detail, but the cost is quite ordinary, what a person consumes in everyday life, so there's nothing extraordinary. Rather, the fear of the innkeepers is related to the fact that they do not know that they do not have information. From this point of view, maybe even that pub of yours could use a brochure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u131	I thank Mr Rais for his time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Petr Fiala, on a point of fact. And his colleague Michal Kučera will outrun his colleague Plíšek with a factual remark. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u132	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we can talk about specific trades. So look into a number of municipalities, especially in poorer regions, there is no pub in some municipalities, in some you have one, pub works several days a week. When someone runs it, it's almost a charity business, he doesn't even make an average wage. You can turn your nose up and say, "They're bad businessmen and they're not supposed to do business." But with me and many of my fellow citizens, we are pleased that such pubs exist, that there is a form of social life in the communities, and I do not see the only reason why we should liquidate it. And if you're asking about the costs. Of course, for people who have absolutely minimal sales, give five grand for a cash register, another hundreds or thousands for a permanent online connection, keeping everything, it just cost them. And the cargo is that it will put a number of trades in jeopardy. And you want numbers? With that Croatia of yours that you're always hanging out with, those are the obvious numbers. After the introduction of electronic sales log, about 30,000 traders ended up. If you count it to the Czech Republic, in the most critical scenario, it could end up as a result of an electronic record of sales of up to 100,000 traders. That's the number we get when we look at what happened in Croatia. You want numbers? Here they are, but you must also pay attention to them and not just use the arguments from the propaganda brochure of Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u133	I thank Mr Petr Fial for his time. Now, Mr Michal Kučera and two more factual points. Mrs Němcová and Mr Nykl. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u134	Thank you for the floor. Today we have various offers for electronic sales records, cash registers and so on. The other day, I had an offer at my firm to get an idea. Basic equipment, basic package for restaurants: 22 600, without VAT, in basic level. In mid-level 35,000, no VAT. And at the highest level, comfortable package, 44,000, without VAT. That seemed like a very specific offer to me. Maybe it'll take a little more for $5,000, I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u135	Thank you. Of course, offers can be different. We continue with factual remarks. Now, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, Mr Igor Nykl, will prepare for a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u136	Thank you for the floor. I just want to say that in the whole debate that concerns whether we know how the data will be secured or how much the treasury costs, I'm missing the dimension of talking about specific people here. They are small, small businessmen who provide a number of services and are not adequately replaced when they quit. And these little businessmen mostly don't want anything from the state. They feed on themselves, feed on their families, and all they want the state to do is not to throw sticks under their feet, so that for very often less than average wages, which they earn through this small business, they don't have to go to the employment office instead. If you don't think of them as such an asset to our societies, which are hundreds of thousands, and I wish that hundreds of thousands of them remain, we are completely out of our minds. We're just gonna flatten it to see if they have $5,000 on the cash register or if they don't have $5,000 on the cash register. They are a much higher asset in the fact that they are self-confidence citizens who do not want anything from the state. And we should preserve that value for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u137	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Igor Nykl's factual comment. Mr Plzák will prepare for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u138	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to get off now, but I can't do it anymore. Once again there was talk about Croatia, once again there is talk of demagogically reducing the number of entrepreneurs. It's not true. In Croatia, there is only a special phenomenon that has occurred since 2010, that the number of civil servants has fallen significantly, but on the contrary, the number of entrepreneurs in the form of business companies is increasing, so there is an increase in entrepreneurs overall and there has not been a decrease at the time of the introduction of the EET. The problem is that there is some decline in agriculture, but that is actually something that doesn't have to do with it, she's been there a long time ago. So it has no connection to the EET. When we look at the figures, there is an increase in companies from 2012 to 2013 from 116 thousand to 129 and the CFI fell from 88 thousand to 84, so overall we see a clear increase, there is only a trend of departure from the form of business as a natural person to a business form of legal persons, no liquidation of entrepreneurs simply does not occur there and it is pointless to interpret it forever. Even Minister of Finance Boris Lalovac was very surprised in Prague when he heard these theories, and he clearly opposed it and said that the only thing that happened there was that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice administratively ended several tens of thousands of entrepreneurs around the time of the introduction of EET business because they did not send statements or tax returns. It didn't have anything to do with EET. It's such a fake thing to keep bringing down businessmen. It's not numerically documented by anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u139	I thank Mr Nykl. Mr Plzák's point of fact now, and then Mr Jan Volný also made a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I really have a point in fact about the performance of my colleague, Mrs. Němcová. The businessmen who are mentioned here really don't want anything from the state. They just don't send kids to school, they don't use highways, they don't use our public health services. And once they can't even reach a minimum pension, they're gonna get life minimum benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u141	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Now, Mr Jan Volný, also on the point of fact. Mr. Pilný will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u142	Thank you for your word. I also want to respond to my colleague, Mrs Němcová. Well, one eye wouldn't stay dry, my colleague, that's true. But don't play the theater with us here. I understand. You took this as a political issue, it's not connected to any real and tangible philosophy at all, because you don't want to say that in a social state, a right-wing government like Sweden has introduced an EET. Are they all human-eaters? That's all the Švéd, just... and now we're gonna kill them, our businessmen? I guess there's a bunch of businessmen out there, too. And they're very happy. Are the man-eaters and the murderers of the Rakušan tradesmen who want to implement it now? Is it the Belgičan who set it up? So we're making something up, we're debating, let's say, yes, it's our political theme, I'm going to the game, it's just the way it is. But let's not say such weeping things here when we should cry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u143	Thank you. Now, Mr Ivan Pilný, on a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Němcová, also on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I completely agree with what Mrs Němcová said here, signing the profile of these people, and I was one of them when I bought the trade certificate in 1990. The problem is that they're divided into two groups. One of them pays taxes and the other one doesn't. Those who pay taxes are stupid, and they're starting to hate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u145	I thank Mr Pilný, President Stanjura, for what it is. Excuse me, Mrs. Němcová volunteered? Okay, so, Mr. Stanjura's colleague. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u146	Members of Parliament, free of charge, through you. Ambassador, don't insult my colleague. Don't insult them. I don't judge your speeches as to whether they're crying or laughing. I really don't. And then you complain that there's no rational debate and there's no matter. What kind of material did you bring into this? There's an EET in Sweden? Electronic sales log? Really? There is no electronic record of sales in Sweden. It's not. But I must commend you on the move from the Balkans to the north. It's certainly positive. A month or two ago, when the first reading was made, it was Croatia, Croatia, Croatia. I don't think that's quite right. Many citizens have also been there this year and have found out how it is with the fact that they receive a receipt each time, and have found that this is not entirely true, that it is the propaganda of the Socialist Minister of Finance of Croatia. But I don't want to deal with another state. But it is certainly a positive move from the Balkans to the north, so today you are about the sixth of the ANO movement, which says: Sweden, Sweden, Sweden. So show us, I don't have it at my disposal, the Swedish law, so we can judge and compare it. I'm not saying, and none of us said the Švéd were doing anything wrong. I'm just saying that there's 28 percent of the grey economy in Croatia even after it's been introduced, and with us about 17 or 18. Well? Who do we inspire? Why don't they have less than us when they're doing it so great and everyone's judging it great? And they still have almost double the shadow grey economy than in the Czech Republic? But I got off on something else. Leave the evaluation to your colleagues, your colleagues. If you don't see any argument, then say it's a false argument, you're wrong, we have better arguments, a better solution. Your performance was awkward, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u147	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr František Laudát's point of order now, and then Mr Volný's point of order. My colleague Plíšek is still on hold. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u148	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just for a little while. I would ask that you not use the "Swedish right" here. It's very misleading. She's moved somewhere in every country by that political party. For example, I had a discussion, and some of my colleagues were with me in Cyprus, where she ruled sometime in 2013, I think, or when we were there, the Communist Party of Cyprus. Marxism-Leninism is the ideal starting point, but in practical policy, Czech Social Democrats and perhaps even the right might be envious of it. So it's very confusing. I had the same experience in Sweden, the ultraright side, conservative, consistent with the ODS of the 1990s. So please don't operate that the Swedish right in Scandinavian countries, with that right, it's not too hot, it's all moved somewhere where social democracy should probably be Czech. Unfortunately, she's running furiously to the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u149	Thank you for complimenting our friends at AKEL. A colleague of Mr Volný also has a factual point and then a colleague of Mr Plíšek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u150	I would like to see you here through your colleague Stanjur, I don't know if he was here, but I said that after the speech of the colleague, one eye did not remain dry. If she thinks it's an insult and a dehonesty to a colleague, I'm really sorry, I really wouldn't want that. But why did I get out now? You say we talked Croatia, Croatia. We did not say Croatia, Croatia, we said Croatian model, Croatian model, Croatian model. Yes, a Croatian model of electronic sales records, far ahead of the technologically Swedish model of registration cash registers. That means it's state-of-the-art, but it has absolutely nothing to do with Croatia or Sweden. Just a Croatian model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u151	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u152	The fascination with technology really amazes me. No offense to technological progress. Some of my colleagues have already talked about it today that long years of debate have been going on about whether technological progress has just gone forward or not. After all, we have different means of preventing some negative phenomena, and we do not use them. For example, there is a negative phenomenon that steals from hypermarkets. All the shops admit it. That's short of sales, I'm not saying business, so those firms have a lower profit, and that's why they pay lower taxes than if everything they steal was paid. There's a solution to that. All you have to do is submit a personal search to anyone who pays after they pay at the checkout. I'm sure we have the technology to compare it to the account, and you'll find out if it's hotter or less. Did we choose this solution? They didn't vote because it's a minority that does it, and the vast majority of customers just don't do it, and no one has thought about it yet to introduce it. So we don't want to see if it's technologically possible. Remember how enthusiastic the Croatian Finance Minister said: I know everything. I know what he ordered, what share he bought. That's what it's about, where the line between privacy and the big brother is. So I'm not saying that the Chorvat have it all wrong technologically. I say that this is wrong in terms of protecting freedom and the intended effect. He himself admitted at your conference, the Finance Minister's conference, or the Treasury Department, I don't know who paid for it, so he admitted it was true. And we didn't actually put it in place to have more taxes. We put it in place to keep track of what our businessmen are doing. And we're saying that today the state has enough tools. How many times have I heard from Deputy Secretary Hornochová, from the Minister and many of you: We know that these restaurants are not valid today. Well, if you know, let the financial office go and do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u153	Mr President, thank you. Let's continue. Colleague Plíšek has arrived, we continue the debate according to individual applications and maybe, if there are no factual remarks, a colleague Janulík will also be present. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u154	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues who are waiting will actually come. Today, it was indeed a shrink of technical comments and comments. I have prepared a wider analysis of this proposal, but I do not know if I will see the Minister's reply today to some of the questions that I presented here at first reading, when I also presented the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, which expressed great doubts about the compatibility of this bill with the rules in the European Union, namely with the support of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and with the acts of the European Union. Today, I will address the purely constitutional aspect of this bill, which, by the way, is very obscure. From its transitional provisions to several readings it is possible to determine which business entities this law applies at all, i.e. in terms of certainty, predictability of law, this standard is very chaotic and unclear. [[15.40 hours]] It is stated in the transitional provisions that, in the first stage, electronic sales records are intended to cover accommodation and catering services, in the next stage for wholesale and retail and in the next stage probably for all other types of business. However, with the fact that, at the same time, in this law, the government is empowered to issue a government regulation in two places, and that it can extend a temporary exemption for business entities other than those I was talking about and, of course, it can then cancel the exemption, that is, then any types of business would be covered by the government's decision to e-book sales, or it can, by the Government's regulation, remove some types of business from the sales records with a justification that its introduction did not work or simply does not work for this type of business. This is undoubtedly contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. At first reading, I supported the inclusion of this bill to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. Unfortunately, the members of the government coalition did not allow the constitutional legal committee to discuss this government proposal there, and I therefore have to say the reservations here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. It is not possible, and the Constitutional Court has judged this several times in its findings, that the government in implementing legislation, whether the Government order or the Ministry in the decree, should determine the obligations of individual entities, in this case entrepreneurs, or disturb or alter them. Only the law can do that. Apart from the inequality of individual entities, where certain entrepreneurs operating accommodation services, which are the first to be covered by the law, turn to the European Court of the European Union and sue the Czech Republic for discrimination and inequality, we can imagine how this proceeding with the Czech Republic can happen if the government, by its regulation, decides freely which entrepreneurs will have to have electronic records of sales and who do not. The Minister, and I have already pointed it out at first reading, has not responded to this. I would be very pleased, Minister, if you would answer me the question of whether you consider this inequality in accordance with the Constitution, whether you are really proposing that the government should only introduce obligations for business entities by its regulation, or, on the contrary, disturb them in any way according to some political demand or in an attempt to please some business types. I want to hear from you, or through you, from Deputy Secretary Hornochová at the gallery, whether you're serious about this. Because, if you do this in a year's time, and I don't believe that this law will be enforced, the TOP 09 will certainly turn to the Constitutional Court in this part of the mandate of the Government and in part of discrimination against some entrepreneurs to abolish these parts of the provisions of this law. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u155	I thank my colleague Plíšek. It is now Mr Janulík's turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To move this from Croatia for my colleagues, let me tell you about Austria's experience with the introduction of electronic sales records. As for the share of the grey economy, Austria, which I am relatively close to and I am very often there, there is a share of the grey economy about half that is in our country. [[Responses from the right.]] I think you're coming from other sources. We all have the right to resources. So it's about - 2008 figures 8,1 %; 2009 8.5 %; 2010 8,2 %; 2011 7.9 %. I've been trying to figure out the increase. They explain it to me that they just get a lot of Nerakušan into their business system, because in Austria, it's more like paying taxes. There, of course, one gets a receipt almost always, if he buys from Rakušan and they are not exactly Polák, Turek or even Čech who have their own establishments there, especially some restaurants. They justify it by getting a lot of Nerakušan into the system, which is why they raised estimates of the share of the grey economy. And even this may have prompted them, or at least this is how they claim to implement the amendment on 23 July, a comprehensive tax amendment in Austria was approved in the Bundesrat. It should be effective from 1. 1. And that's basically an offline electronic sales log. They wanted the online one, or they're basically saying that they're jealous if we can introduce it, that they would also like it, that, of course, it's logically the next step, that they'll also get access to online records. However, if it introduces the offlin one, they expect from it, and their analyses are very serious and I hope that no one here, even from the right part, will question the Austrian analysis that talks about it, they assume that it will bring them to the budget about 900 million euros a year, which is at the current rate of almost 25 billion crowns. So I'm sure that's a very interesting amount. With the fact that so far it is stipulated in that paragraph that the general obligation to register turnover on a separate basis will be maintained only with exceptions which will be approved by the relevant Land Minister of Finance. [[unintelligible]] The registers will be a yearly turnover of EUR 15,000, which is not much. When you divide it by 12, it's a relatively small turnover per month, and if cash turnover exceeds EUR 7,500, because there are certainly businesses, see, for example, online stores that don't have cash turnover. There, of course, because of the fact that it is offline, there is an obligation to protect register cash registers and other electronic registration systems by technical security, because they have learned from the error that took place in Slovakia, because they know that there are several hundred companies operating in Slovakia today, as well as in Hungary, that they are selling the product that goes around the system. The Rakušan have learned their lesson from this, so they will have to install technical security equipment against tampering. And he just won't go... They're focusing on not being able to manipulate the register in any way, and that's gonna make the effect happen, because their main argument is also... it is not so far from financial, although Austria is also struggling with some budget deficit etc. But that's not their main argument. The main argument is that many entrepreneurs of other nationalities who do not have the Austrian culture have entered their business environment. The last Austrian farmer, if you buy something from him, he'll just take out your receipt, and even if you tell him you don't want it, he'll force it in and say "do what you want with it," but he'll give you the receipt and pay your taxes. But if Turkish imbis get into the system and I don't know Polish business and Czech innkeepers who really open or run restaurants there, that's why in the end even very cultural Austria approaches this system. And they argue exactly the same as I told you about half an hour ago that it's just inevitable. It's as inevitable as changing seasons. And the fact that there was a little bit of resistance to the online system with the big brother's voucher, they're just sorry that they didn't put it in the novel because they could already have approved it from July 23rd, and they realize that they're gonna implement the system now, de facto they're gonna have to give birth to a dead kid because they're gonna have to turn the offline system into an online one anyway, because from all experience... And they are also inspired in Croatia because they are their natural neighbours, that the Croatian system as if in the electronic form that is now, is much cheaper than the one that Austria is introducing. But that political decision was made about two or three years ago, so the technology, that's what I was telling you about. The technology simply outruns the political decision, and so let us be an example of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u157	I thank Mr Janulík. Now, with a proper application, Mr Igor Nykl, and we are continuing the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u158	Thank you for the floor. I would now complete the overall summary of Croatia, what it looks like there, what EET brought there, and I hope that after today we will not continue to mention that Croatia is a symbol of something where EET ended up with a fiasco, where it was a failure, and where we should not look at it. The arguments of the opponents of the EET and critics of the Croatian system are mainly that they say that in Croatia the VAT collection has not increased due to the EET. The second argument is that there has been an increase in unemployment due to the EET. And thirdly, many entrepreneurs have failed. The fact that VAT has not increased is quite logical because, at the time Croatia introduced the EET, it has actually joined the EU. Some VAT rules had to be changed there, VAT rates changed there. But what's important is that VAT didn't go down either. The VAT collection remained roughly at the same level and it should be said that the speeches of the EET and the introduction of the EET in the form of better VAT collection are during the longer track. So it could not be expected that from 2012 on 2013, 2013 on 2014 there will be some jumping increase in VAT collection. The important thing is that if we look at some other indicators, such as: so-called consumption tax, so there was actually an increase of 48 percent from 2012 to 2013. There has also been an increase in the collection of tax on the profits of natural and legal persons. So it was in its essence successful, but the first view is so neutral, but it wants to wait. As regards the increase in unemployment. Unemployment in Croatia has been growing smoothly since 2008 and is the result of the global financial crisis. And even at the time of the introduction of the EET, there was no jumping deterioration in the situation. It is simply a smooth deterioration, which logically must have been due to the global financial crisis, and the situation has only now actually settled. The main argument used by EET opponents says that there was a huge collapse of entrepreneurs. I've been talking about this a little bit, it's so specific, because there's been a real decrease in the number of MITs, but on the other hand, there's been a significant increase in companies, especially the activation of those companies. So overall, the situation of entrepreneurs is increased. So the argument about the collapse, about the avalanche collapse of many entrepreneurs is false, because it is the EET opponents who use only that part of the tradesmen, the self-employed, so it's cheaply said that there's been a significant reduction, but they don't put it into proportion that there's an increase in those companies. So the specific thing in Croatia is that there are actually so cyclically fluctuating the CFI, which means at the end of the year actually in the last quarter is quite a large number of the CFI. But at the beginning of the next period in the first quarter, there was a decline, and so there was also data that was supposed to show how there was a decline in the tradesmen, which was based on the fact that they compared the last quarter of 2012, i.e. A quarter before the introduction of the EET, and compared it to, for example, the third quarter of 2014, and there was a decline of 30,000 CFI. But if we took the same difference in quarter made before the EET was introduced, that means we would have compared the 12th month of 2010 and the third month of 2012, so we have the same decrease. So it's due to the seasonality, the special fluctuations in the specific Croatian environment, but it's no proof that the tradesmen are dropping there, and yet in some kind of forceful way. When you look at the composition of the person who is falling, it is specific, as I said here, for agriculture. And that's a long-term trend that has nothing to do with EET. Moreover, for farmers, for those small and medium-sized farmers, electronic sales records do not apply, so it cannot be said that the impact of the EET has been reduced. It's a natural physiological course of decline. On the contrary, in retail, catering, hospitality, services everywhere, there is an increase in the number of these entrepreneurs. So this argument is definitely being heard here today and every day about this avalanche decline is false. Another such argument was that technically it is not possible to secure the system, which is actually quite extensive. In Croatia, as has been said, the system is, of course, easier against what will happen in our country, given the population. But still, there are 12 million EET financial operations every day in the high season, and yet there was no major complaint that something was collapsing somewhere. So it is obvious that technically, and that is the main thing we take from Croatia, the system is very perfect. Of course, the fact that this system needs sufficient control mechanisms to function is clear. I agree that when some people are on vacation in Croatia and they see that the receipts are not issued as they should be, it is a phenomenon that cannot be completely influenced. Of course, morale is the basis, and it pays everywhere. And without morality and these systems, you can go around, as your colleague said. In Slovakia, it is typical where companies actually feed by trying to bypass register cash registers. This is a huge problem raised by the Minister of Finance of Slovakia. Then it was said here that some are concerned about the great financial difficulty of introducing an EET for entrepreneurs. In Croatia it was done without any problems. Different mini-fibs are very cheap. These payments are 500, 600 crowns a month, so there is no fear for these financial issues that the system should not work here. What can I say in conclusion? It must be said that I believe that we can convince the Members of our Parliament as they did in Croatia in the end, where, in conclusion, the entire Parliament voted in favour of the EET except for two Members, and that is amazing. Let us believe that the number here will be roughly similar and that the arguments that we put forward here are such that they show that the meaningfulness of the implementation of the system, whose primary task is to straighten the business environment and, in the second time, to bring the economic benefits, is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u159	I thank Mr Igor Nykl for his speech. We will continue with the factual remark made by President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask Dr Nykl how he would deal with his President's argument that, while in Croatia, the global financial crisis and the Czech Republic, Kalousek, as you said, could have been responsible for increasing unemployment and economic situation. I wonder how this is possible sometimes. But that answer can, of course, be heard at any time, because at this point, I am referring to interviews with all the presidents of the MPs, and I would like to propose that this item be interrupted by 7. 10th to 14th hour 30th minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-004-013.u161	I thank Mr Kalousek. It applied Article 54 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 9 of the Rules of Procedure Act, which is the right of the President of the Club of Parliament to propose such a procedure. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards and we will decide to interrupt this point by 7. 10:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Once the number of people has settled, I will vote on this proposal. I've started the vote on order number 144 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 144, from 111 Members present for 106, against 1. The motion was accepted. We interrupted item number 13 of our meeting program until 7. 10:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. And the first person to be next in the open debate is Mr Simon Karamazov. In the light of the agreement made by the other club presidents, I will interrupt the 31st meeting by 29. 9. until 14 o'clock, because next week it is committee and we have the laws discussed in the first reading that have passed on the committees, and they need to be discussed in the committees. So I'm interrupting, and this time without a vote, a meeting until 29. 9:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. The agenda shall be set by the Organising Committee at its meeting on Thursday. Thank you. Have a nice weekend, and I'm looking forward to seeing you.
