ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u1	135. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Principality of Liechtenstein on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income and property taxes and the Protocol to it signed in Prague on 25 September 2014 /German press 343/ - first reading I will ask someone from the government to take up the role of the minister who is not here. [[Short break.]] I ask the Minister of Culture whether he will take this role. Yes, so the motion submitted will be presented by the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u2	Madam President, colleagues, on 25 September 2014, a treaty was signed in Prague between the Czech Republic and the Principality of Liechtenstein on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income and property taxes and the Protocol thereto. The Government of the Czech Republic agreed to negotiate these documents by resolution No. 718 of 3 September 2014. The development of versatile and mutually beneficial economic relations is one of the aims of Czech foreign policy. The possible double taxation is undesirable as it reduces the income generated by the natural and legal persons of one State from another State. These may include, in particular, revenue from the implementation of construction, assembly, research and other activities, the use of patents and other industrial rights, technical knowledge and experience, manufacturing-technical knowledge, interest, equity, production and technical cooperation and other sources. Double taxation also affects, for example, the income from the use of copyright for works of literary, artistic and scientific, pensions, income from employment and the income of performers and athletes. In the same way, ownership of property of a resident State in the territory of another State may give rise to international double taxation of that property. Since the result of international double taxation is a conflict of tax laws of two sovereign states, such taxation can be effectively ruled out only by measures taken by those states which are mutually coordinated by the international tax treaty. There is currently a non-contractual relationship in the mutual tax relations between the Czech Republic and the Principality of Liechtenstein. [[11.30 hours]] The submitted tax contract was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models, with the fact that, of course, it is based primarily on the national legislation of both countries and will contribute to an objective distribution of the right to tax on individual types of income and property between the two countries. The negotiation of this double taxation treaty will increase the legal certainty of potential investors in both states. Its closure and implementation will not have a direct impact on the state budget. The overall contribution resulting from the application of this Treaty will depend in practice on the future development of the various forms of economic cooperation. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please let the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr René Číp. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u4	Thank you for the floor. I am pleased that the alternative minister has presented this agreement in a seemingly comprehensive manner. However, I would like to ask about trade between us, what is the volume of trade between us. On the part of the petitioner, I think this information could be heard before I continue my intelligence report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u5	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u6	Thank you for this question, but in view of my resorting focus, I can say more about the cultural exchange between the Czech Republic and the Principality of Liechtenstein, which is very rich. As we know, the Liechtensteins owned a number of real estate and movable monuments mainly in South Moravia and a number of castles contain a very important furniture. There is also a very practical cultural exchange in the sense that some of the images that have been lost from these objects are returned to their original sites, at least in very successful photocopies thanks to the helpfulness of the Principality of Liechtenstein. There has also been a restoration of the Liechtenstein tomb on Vranov, which means that cooperation can be regarded as very good on this side. I believe that per analogiam can also be assessed as economic cooperation, although I do not have all the information at this time together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u7	Thank you. I am registering here an application with the priority right of Mr Stanjura. Only to Mr Číp. He is the rapporteur for first reading and I would like him to read his news report and not abuse his rights as rapporteur. I will give the rapporteur the floor and then invite Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u8	Thank you again for the floor. I would merely repeat very briefly what the alternate minister has already mentioned, that double taxation is undesirable, as it reduces the income that natural and legal persons, residents of one state, derive from another State. These may include, in particular, revenue from the implementation of construction, assembly, research and other activities, the use of patents and other industrial rights, technical knowledge and experience, production-technical knowledge, interest on equity, production and technical cooperation and other sources. Double taxation also affects e.g. revenue from the use of copyright for works by literary, artistic and scientific, pensions, income from employment and the income of performers and athletes. Since the result of international double taxation is a conflict of tax laws of two sovereign states, such taxation can be effectively ruled out only by measures taken by those states which are mutually coordinated by the international tax treaty. There is currently a non-contractual relationship in the mutual tax relations between the Czech Republic and the Principality of Liechtenstein. The submitted tax contract was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models, with the fact that, of course, it is based primarily on the national legislation of both countries and will contribute to an objective distribution of the right to tax on individual types of income and property between the two countries. The negotiation of this double taxation treaty will increase the legal certainty of potential investors in both states. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u9	Thank you. Mr Stanjura has withdrawn his application, so I am opening a general debate. I do not see one registered in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Minister, are you interested in the final word? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I would just add that it can be said that the text of the contract fully reflects developments and trends in the international tax field. This tax agreement will enable the coordination of the activities of the tax authorities of both states to limit possible tax evasion and will, last but not least, enable the relevant exchange of information, in accordance with existing international standards. On the basis of what has already been said, I therefore propose that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic take account of these facts when discussing this international treaty and that this Treaty be ordered, at first reading, to the relevant House Committees, which will certainly examine it in detail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-004-135.u11	Thank you. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? It's not like that. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. So whoever agrees to the proposal being ordered to discuss the foreign committee, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 74, to which 132 are registered, for 123, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal on the commandment to the committees? It's not like that. So I'm done reading this point. We're going to approach the next item in the program, and that's point number.
