ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-008-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 505/1990 Coll., on Metrology, as amended / House print 303/ - second reading Jan Mládek, Minister of Industry and Trade, will also present the submitted proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-008-008.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, before I speak about the law, let me answer Mr Laudát. Of course, next time I'll be careful to give the opportunity to respond to any comments. The reaction came anyway. My feeling was that the debate was essentially continuous. But it doesn't bother me if the reaction is absolutely immediate. And as for the matter of fact. Of course, the figures do not support the theory that the government that came in is an economic disaster, because it achieves economic growth not only last year, but also in this year. It's been different in the past few years. We didn't grow, sometimes we had a fall. It's just to the edge. Now to the law I've been called to. The basic objective of the amendment to the Act on Metrology is to meet the needs of practice and eliminate the developmentally overcome requirements. The proposal specifies, inter alia, the rights and obligations of bodies in the field of metrology and enhances consumer protection in the examination of defined gauges. One amendment was applied to the draft law in the Economic Committee, with which I agree and support it. In conclusion, I would like to ask you to support the proposed bill in the legislative process in both the second and third readings of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-008-008.u3	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade. We ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Economic Committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 303/1. I beg you, Mr Jaroslav Klaška, the rapporteur of the committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-008-008.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear colleagues, as the Minister has already said, it is a technical amendment that responds in particular to practical problems. We talked about this last time. I would just like to say that this amendment has been discussed by the Economic Committee. A single amendment has also been discussed. The minister said he agreed with him. It has a more or less legislative technical nature. I will present this amendment to you in the resolution. It's very simple. So let me introduce you to the resolution of the Economic Committee. Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Novotný, report by Jaroslav Klaška and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House Press 303, as amended by the approved amendment, which reads as follows: in Article 1, paragraph 22, the text "§ 9a para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2" is replaced by "§ 9a para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2'. II. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. III. He instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee. IV. He shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-008-008.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate in which I am not registering an application at the moment. If there is no application for a general debate, I shall end the general debate. I am initiating a debate in detail, which also does not include any application. If no one is logged in, I will conclude a detailed debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. I therefore end second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
