ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-015-047.u1	47. Draft of Members Jiří Dolejš, Miloslava Vostrá, Josef Vondrášek, René Číp, Vojtěch Filip, Pavel Kováčik and Alexandr Černý on the issue of the law on property return and on the amendment of Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended (the property return law) /German press 235/ - First reading We received the Government's position as House Press 235/1. I prosit that Mr Jiří Dolejš present the proposal for the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-015-047.u2	Thank you for giving me the floor. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I will present this press to the newcomers for the first time in this parliamentary term. Memorialists who have been here for a while will remember that both in my person and other colleagues from other parties with a similar theme have already stood here. The truth is that it is indeed evergreen, that this tool to address the grey economy is discussed essentially throughout the existence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. He was here, if I count correctly, ten times, and of that, of my political faction, I'm standing here the fifth time. I don't know if it's gonna be happier, but I believe that a certain kind of helpfulness between you can be found to discuss this proposal, because this or similar solution to the grey economy has been much discussed in the election campaign, and many of you have promised something similar to that to your constituents. The truth is, too, and I would like to remind you that this instrument is not something that completely deviates, it has fallen to us from the heavens, but it has already been enshrined twice in our legal order. Of course, the rule of law is evolving, so you'd probably point out that the context is a little different right now, but it's just not wild. It is true that not only has this instrument been approved, but has even been applied in the days of the Masarykův Republic, namely between 1920 and 1929. It was in the form of both physical and legal persons, and since the nominal and purchasing power of the Czech currency was a little different at that time, the limit was CZK 1 million. Once again, this instrument was enshrined in the legal order after 1989, it is also good to perceive and realize, namely, the spring of 1992, i.e. the period of revolutionary changes, when it was approved in the territory of the Czech Republic at the time within the Federation. It was promoted by Petr Pithart's government at the time. The author of the proposal was no leftist, but then Minister of Finance Karel Špaček. Again it was intended, directed, to the natural and legal persons, again the limit was 1 million crowns of property. It happened that the Federation had broken down, that since 1993 a substantial reform of the tax system had begun, and because the effectiveness of this law was to be implemented in 1995, when the property return was to be given for the first time, this did not happen, and unfortunately this redundant element in the legal order was liquidated in 1994. But it did exist. This inspiration was motivated repeatedly by different promoters of a similar proposal. In particular, there was such a fruitful period during the reign of Prime Minister Miloš Zeman, when the proposal for a return was first submitted in 1999 by Prime Minister Pavel Mertlík and two years later by Minister Jiří Rusnok. Given the - the known thing - that Miloš Zeman's government was then bound by the opposition treaty, you can imagine how it turned out and what exactly it came across. But that's the past. We are now living today, and I think it is good to recall international contexts and international comparisons as well. The truth is that the property return institute has been in a number of countries in the past, but it also needs to be added in conjunction with the property tax, namely the wealth tax, which is now being gradually demolished in those countries, that this institute is no longer numerous and occurs in a somewhat altered form. For example, in Slovakia, where it has been legal since 2011, in Bulgaria, where it is not actually a property return obligation, but an opportunity to respond to the appeal of the tax office, it appears in the Baltic Republics, in Switzerland it can do so in its competence individual cantons. That's an international connection. When I said that some of you may have promised this, but in any case you had it written in the electoral programme, I would mention above all the social democracy that has repeatedly put forward a similar proposal, not just by the mouth of its ministers, but by the time it sat in opposition, and through its Members as members of the opposition. Now they are faced with the fate of coalition loyalty and coalition relations, but I still think that they should perceive a proposal that is very similar to what they themselves have put forward, not only because the Prime Minister, today President Miloš Zeman, placed it among his political priorities. If I have read the documents of the YES movement correctly, they spoke more about this before the elections in relation to the admissions of public officials, politicians and officials. But it is true that, after the establishment of a government coalition, they were corporations in the government's programming statement to address this issue, even in a slightly different way than the proposal you now have before you. In the government's programming statement, it essentially wants to be dealt with not on the basis of a separate property return system, but within the framework of tax and criminal legislation. And as far as I could see, the coalition partner, the KDU-ČSL party, who preferred the party, also made a point of emphasising the judicial solution through the mouth of its representatives. And here we are at the dilemma that we're going to stand before, so if we want to take this material seriously and continue to think about it, possibly continue to discuss it or improve it at second reading, because we have to realize that the fundamental difference between the possible proposals here is that our... [[The speaker speaks very loudly, Mr Kováčik approaches the speaker and tells him to lower the volume.]] But on the other hand, those less heard can hear so well, can't they? I'll take it down a notch if I can. Yeah, it'll work. [[16.20 hours]] The main difference is that we actually propose a special obligation to report assets and a special control procedure. And the criticism, which I have also known for ten or fifteen years, is that this special procedure brings an extra agenda, which will have costs, will bother. Some use the expressive expression that it's a thug for poor people who have stumbled into some property and now they're supposed to fill out some paper. So today we're living in an IT time, so some kind of electronic form. So I'm saying that it's not that much drama, because I think that the electronic form makes things easier, that the setting of the bounds of mandatory persons is that it's actually for individuals, if you take the ten-million-dollar limit, so how many of these multimillionaires do we have? Let's say a modest estimate of 50,000. She'd have to handle that agenda. Perhaps it could even be handled in this form by an agenda as it exists in the tax authorities. On the contrary, the government proposal under consideration, and it can be found in a number of European countries, which would expect a much larger initiative to draw on the various information already existing, such as registers, etc., actively working with them and looking for the problem. Of course, that would mean perhaps accepting extra people. In Germany, for example, they have a special office set up in addition to the standard tax office, which is dedicated to finding tax evasion. Of course tax evasion is important, so some cargo in this direction is real, but the question is whether the project, as it is known in some countries, is effective enough. And we believe that this tool is more general, allowing some holes to be clogged and the circumvention of a system that the government is considering, and we think it is at least worth discussing. Basically, I'm interrogating you to let it go to second reading. It's set, and I repeat, you could have read it, of course, in the explanatory memorandum, it's set so that a ten-million-dollar limit is proposed for mandatory individuals, which is a number that, as far as I know, the government's proposal is also considering. There are legal entities. And I know that in order to introduce this obligation, even if it was already for Masaryk and Kočárník, there are reservations in particular from the area of representatives of employers and business, but just when we abolish legal entities there, we will actually create one channel that can escape and circumvent the system, which should fall across not only on people who are publicly active, but on various cousins, cousins and various friendly persons, which could then happily accumulate property in a controversial manner. So this is the basic parameter and the basic difference from what is discussed somewhere else. It is clear that there must be defined property, in the law you could read that it is defined negatively. In other words, there is a specific list of property that is liberated. I'm not saying the list is perfect or exhausting. It can be smoothed, but I think it's the main thing. The whole mechanism, in order to simplify it for your idea of who has not been doing so far in more detail, is that an obligation would be introduced for those persons first of all to make a statement on the state of property, and then to give a return at a distance, and these two documents would make a difference and indicate a possible problem and problem-solving. The duty without penalty is, of course, toothless, so it is clear that putting the relevant declaration or confession should be subject to sanctions. Since we're not on the ground of criminal law, it would be in criminal proceedings, which I think is an entirely adequate procedure. When it comes to the obligation that should work this way, we are actually avoiding a problem that I see as a government proposal, and it is very discussed, and that is, in the case of the tax authorities' initiative, that you will not get into a situation called. preclusion and that you do not have to solve so called. False retroactivity, which is a hot topic that is being discussed towards this proposal, and it is even considered that in a government variant it could lead to courts and arbitration. What is important, in this introductory word, is the government's position. You have, you've read, you've met. I would point out that the government took a neutral position last summer at the time when it gave its position, I think. So not strictly rejecting, although, of course, there are a number of problems, but I dare say that if there is an understanding with the concept, virtually. To measure this concept with a forthcoming government concept, that is certainly no reason for this press to be blocked at first reading. The link to the tax rules is one of the arguments that appear there. But let's just say that if we're discussing a statement of property that appears in the tax system, that's a slightly different instrument. In the tax system, it's a statement of property in case we've already worked out the problem and there's an execution procedure. It is also true that the tax rules are a standard which should, in fact, only have a subsidiary character to this special law. I admit that this may have legislative shortcomings. After all, government legislation has a far greater capacity, but I think these shortcomings are solvable, and if it is considered that this law could be avoided somehow, I think that every law has that risk, so let's say in what and the possible hole, if we find it, we plug in another work over the document. We've been working on this proposal since we've been here a few times since last summer. I think it was June. It's been 15 months. Campaign away, creative work on government programming statements has already got some patina, so you'd like to see the results. And I think if there's a moment approaching when we're about to see a government property claim proposal, that these standards might as well exist next to each other. I don't know how it's gonna work out. I noticed that in the autumn, I think in September or when, the principles of the government proposal were presented and then sometime since November went this proposal so called. an external reminder procedure. We just don't have it yet. So, in a situation where there are two possible solutions, it is good not to slam the door at either one, and in the finals we will find out which of the proposals would be the optimal carrier of the final solution. That's, I think, probably the main thing I wanted to say in the introduction. I look forward to your discussion, of course, but I'm not calling for mercy, I'm calling for a balance sheet. After all, when the Vice-President of House Filip made a similar proposal here, I believe it was 2005, so we got to the third reading, and when I was here in 2012, I also did not see a quick death. The will to discuss was also in various coalition and political relations. Let's try to debate this one time, and although it is clear to me that I will hear those classic purely liberal right-wing reservations again, about how innocent people suffer, etc., I still think there is something to discuss, and I would really like you to pay attention to it and put it into second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-015-047.u3	I thank Mr Dolejš. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Josef Vozdecký. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-015-047.u4	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a very brief statement in the rapporteur's role on the content of this proposal and give my opinion on this. As the representatives of the petitioners have said, it is by its content and scope that the legislation on the return of property is not currently enshrined in our legal order. He was talking about the past. I am noted that since 1999, several efforts have been made to incorporate the legislation on the return of property into the rule of law, both by the Government and by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in the form of parliamentary proposals, but neither of the proposals submitted has been approved. So allow me briefly on this adjustment. The proposed legislation by Members' Bill of Members from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia should thus fill the resulting gap in the tax administration law and limit tax evasion or prevent it altogether. The proposed legislation, which is referred to by the representatives of the petitioners, concerns a person who is considered to be both a natural person and a legal person whose assets exceed the values in the proposed law of CZK 10 million for natural persons and CZK 30 million for legal persons. I consider it important in this proposal. The proposed legislation should contribute to the acquisition of aid for the recovery of tax defaults in the case of tax debtors, but, above all, it should also become a preventive instrument for reducing tax evasion and thus an instrument for achieving higher revenue from the state budget. As stated, I stress that the Government has discussed this bill and adopted a neutral position on it. It stated and stressed in its opinion that it is aware of the need to address the problem of tax evasion and take measures to prevent it. However, it does not believe that the draft Parliamentary law tabled is capable of meeting the objective. The Government notes that the parliamentary bill suffers from many conceptual, systemic, legal and legislative technical shortcomings that could cause a number of interpretation problems in practice, respectively. makes the law practically unapplicable. For example, in the draft law there is a proposal for additional property tax at a rate of 100 per cent, which can hardly be regarded as a tax, but it is in fact a special form of punishment for the forfeiture of property, which could ultimately be stricter than the punishment for the forfeiture of property, as it is known by criminal law, since the debtor is not confiscated, but must pay an amount which may be even higher than the amount received from his payment. I therefore stress once again that the Government notes that the parliamentary proposal suffers from substantive legal and legislative technical deficiencies, among which the terminological disunity, incorrect definition of terms and inappropriate and in the result of confusing use of established terms can be classified. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the Government's proposal for a law on proof of the origin of property, which in my case is a simplification of de facto the amendment to the Income Tax Act and the Criminal Code. And what is the state of the legislative process? It is currently such that this proposal has undergone an external reminder procedure, the settlement of comments is ongoing, and perhaps in February it will still be highly likely to be submitted to the government. Well, if that were the way I did, and as I say it, the government's bill could be submitted at the House's March meeting. The proposal for effectiveness, as stated in the Government's draft law, should be as of 1 January 2016. Thus, in conclusion, what is my recommendation as rapporteur for the submitted and currently under discussion in the draft law, the House press 235. I would recommend his rejection at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-015-047.u5	I thank the rapporteur and I note his proposal to reject the proposal. I open a general debate in which the President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Miroslav Kalousek signed up with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-015-047.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was wondering if I should withdraw my application for a moment because the rapporteur had crossed me. I only volunteered to propose the rejection of this proposal at first reading. It's such a nice déjà vu for me. For the first time, I proposed rejecting this proposal in 1999. It's been over 15 years, colleagues. Those were the days, I was young! So if the petitioner is calling for a balance sheet, I want to assure him that we've been on the loose for 15 years. We've heard the same arguments we've heard over the past 15 years. And I'll just disappoint him on his assumption that he'll hear our arguments again. I think we've repeated them so many times that I don't think it's necessary to keep you with them. I am merely referring to our arguments, which were raised here in 1999, 2005, 2010 and are still the same and still valid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-015-047.u7	Thank you to President Kalousek. Mr. Chairman of the KSČM MP's club Pavel Kováčik with priority rights now. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-015-047.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, we did not expect anything else, especially from my colleague Kalousek, but that a motion for rejection would come. We are a little surprised that the motion for rejection comes from an ANO representative, especially because this movement has come to the Chamber of Deputies under the promise of order after all these years have been stolen. Everyone here steals, that's what you've all heard. And our bill proposal has an ambition to help the process of settling the recent past. It was easier to straighten out the recent or earlier past, but the post-November past seemed to be forgotten. And now I could remind you of the privatisation of coupons, any other, theft of centuries, etc., what's going on here. Our proposal was supposed to respond to this and it had, truth, perhaps at 12 o'clock, but here I remind you that this is not the first time that we have put forward this or similar proposal, it had in our legal order and it has in our legal order the possibility of catching up with those who came to the property in an dishonest way. And the conquest in legal form. We don't want any levelling-up by nationalization, as someone likes to smash in here and there all the time. We want a person who has come to his property in a proper and honest way and is able to prove it, to use it for the benefit of his or her country, to multiply it, to pay due taxes on it. Such a man is dear to us as to you. But whoever stole, robbed in broad daylight, didn't hold even noon, even on Sunday, so he should be afraid that one day the law will come, and that he will reward the dishonesty in due course. [[16.40 hours]] The moment I heard from the rapporteur that he had a proposal in his hand, which is in the commentary process of the government machine, and that it would be a proposal that would deal with these things, I will admit that I would welcome it. However, when I heard the motion to dismiss, I would like to make a compromise proposal. Because we also know from previous times, but also from this time, that not all government promises regarding the fact that when a government representative says that a parliamentary amendment is bad for that and that reason, and that the government will soon come up with something amazing, better, more complex, more brilliant, which will always be the right medicine... I would ask you to vote at this moment on the suspension of this item until the time of the submission of the Government Bill, as the rapporteur has mentioned, on de facto property returns. It would be more honest, it would be more reasonable. And it doesn't hurt if there's an instrument available, which, for example, will drive the government to keep the promise that it will come with this proposal. A colleague of Vozdecký said it might come in February. Well, I'd like that. So let's make a deal and I beg you now to support my proposal to interrupt this point until the time of the submission of the government bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-11-ps2013-025-06-015-047.u9	Sorry, I'm sorry. It is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote without debate. [[Mr Kováčik nods for consent]] Mr Kováčik proposes to suspend this item pending the submission of a government bill. So I'll call in our colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on the suspension of this item until the submission of the Government's bill. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 136 vote, 163 Members and Members, for 90, against 35. The motion was accepted. I'm interrupting item 47. I thank the rapporteur, the rapporteur. The next item is point number
