ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-009-031.u1	31. Government bill on registration of sales / House printing 513/ - first reading I, too, will ask the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš to present this bill to us. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-009-031.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the bill on the record of sales. This was a legislative act that the government has factored as one of its priorities. The aim of the bill is to create a transparent business environment in the Czech Republic and eliminate inequalities arising from violations of tax laws by certain business entities. The law will contribute to reducing the amount of the grey economy and improving tax morale in the Czech Republic, including comparing the distorted perception of tax obligations that have been established here in the past. The Act will also contribute to the increase in the revenue of the state budget and the budget of the local authorities, without the need to increase tax rates with a negative impact on the economy of the Czech Republic. We expect a positive impact, in particular, on the collection of income taxes on natural and legal persons and value added tax. The draft law establishes an obligation to report cash sales online to the tax administrator. Inspiration for the introduction of this system is a system of so-called fiscalization, which works successfully in the Republic of Croatia. The online solution is a fundamental difference against earlier proposals to monitor sales using fiscal memory registers. Technological progress now makes it possible to apply this more effective solution to lower costs for the business sector. The proposal assumes that business sales that are made in cash, credit cards or other similar ways will be recorded. Bank transfers from an account to an account or recovery orders will not be registered. The substantive exemptions from the registration of sales are expected only at a minimum, in cases where registration of sales is not possible due to the disruption of continuity and efficiency of the performance of the activity. Examples are vending machines or the sale of public transport tickets by the driver or the registration of sales is not effective, for example, because the relevant type of business is already regulated by the State or is the activity of public bodies and their contribution organisations. In conclusion, I am going to propose a reduction in the deadline for discussing this bill in committees for 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-009-031.u3	Thank you, Minister. Please allow the Minister to repeat this shortening the deadline to 30 days in the general debate, but I am registering it. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jaroslav Klaška. [[Voices: absent.]] In that case, if the rapporteur is not present, I will have to interrupt this point until the rapporteur is present. [[There's a lot of debate going on in the hall.]] If the rapporteur is not present, then I am interrupting point 31 of the electrical record of sales, in the presence of the rapporteur. So we're going to look at point 32, which is
