ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u1	The combined debate on points 15, 16 and 17 /German press 411, 412, 413/ - first reading It is the Government's draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, the Parliament's press 411, we are first reading. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. But the debate was interrupted in a merged general debate for three points at the same time, i.e. 15, 16 and 17, that is, constitutional law and related laws, and we were in a situation where Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr Dolejš, Mr Černoch and Holeček, is registered with a factual remark. Since Mr Votava is not here because he is duly excused for health reasons, it is necessary for us to change the rapporteur. The Committee on Budgets proposes that Mr Jan Volný be the rapporteur for this meeting in the merged debate. If no one else has a proposal, I do not see it, we will decide in the vote. I started voting number 135. I ask who is the rapporteur to replace Václav Votava with Mr Jan Volný. Who's against it? Voting order number 135, from 171 Members present for 121, against no one. The motion was accepted. I will ask Mr Volný to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Mr Miroslav Kalousek will now take the words in a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I applied to a factual remark some time ago because there were flaming calls at that moment to find consensus across the political spectrum. I wanted to make that comparison as we looked for the consensus when we put forward this proposal that the House did not accept and how you did it. At that time, a permanent group was established at the Ministry of Finance, which I chaired as Minister of Finance, and each Parliamentary club sent two representatives there, and I thank them once again for their intensive work. This resulted in a kind of output that we submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, and we could only have a parametric discussion. But since we were serious about budgetary responsibility, those who only wanted to fake it did not finally approve it. However, there was a three-quarter-year discussion between the MPs. You have now put forward something that you have whipped in coalition, no one has seen it before in the Chamber of Deputies - and it is, once again, I say, a proposal on budgetary irresponsibility. In doing so, I stress that our proposal still applies that if you would like to look at the real budgetary responsibility and the real will for the structural deficit and that this law will aim at balanced budgets, not at one percent, we are still ready to support your will for budgetary responsibility. But we're not prepared to support your efforts to fake something you don't really want to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u3	I thank Mr Kalousek, including the observance of time. And with a point of fact before Mr Dolejš, Mr Karel Fiedler - also a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'm basically going to pick up a previous speaker, a colleague of Kalousek, what I said in my last performance, a few minutes ago. In essence, we both say the same thing with Mr Kalousek that, as far as these fundamental matters are concerned, I call on the Chamber of Deputies, the parliamentary clubs, to be things that will not only be from the wider consensus of the three parliamentary clubs and political parties of the government coalition. Just one more thing for a short time. A moment ago, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš said that he would be very happy to cut taxes. I am happy to sincerely believe him, and I hope that at least he will support the proposal of our parliamentary club to commit constitutionally that we will not at least increase taxes. So I believe that our proposal, which will surely be introduced in a moment by colleague Marek Černoch, will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u5	I thank Mr Fiedler and now Mr Jiří Dolejš will appear in his duly applied application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. I don't know how fresh you have in your heads the debate that took place on this point about a month ago. I'm afraid you've already fallen out of it, but after all, a mere look at the title of this point suggests that it will not be simple, because it is a constitutional law, and therefore we're basically interfering with things that not only require a constitutional majority that can be whipped, but can also be built on some rational consensus. But it is a thing that should have a long-term, if not permanent, validity, and it should create conditions for those who come after us, and that is why I think it deserves a more comprehensive debate. And it's a real shame that this law appeared here a little bit after certain birthing coalition pains and, uh, we're kind of chasing it, so it wasn't fundamental enough for the stage of preparation. I can make it my first comment, and it's heading towards the history of thinking on the topic of the financial constitution. There are more memorials here than I am, but I myself have experienced four attempts at a financial institution. The debate over these attempts shows, first, what individual political thought streams consider to be budgetary responsibility and how their views have evolved. Sometimes under pressure, I would say, even coalition and other ad hoc political circumstances. I will also recall a speech a month ago by a fellow Vice-President of the House of Filip, who pointed out that intervention in the Constitution is to such an extent significant that it deserves not some halabala approach, but to discuss it also in the context of other interventions in constitutionality. It's just a reminder. And now for the history of the very idea of the financial constitution. The first was the proposal that appeared here in November 2002, it was press 115 if you wanted to track it down, and it was a proposal by the opposition ODS at the time and it was rejected at first reading, as it sometimes happens to opposition proposals. Interesting is the argument of rejection. This means that the then government assembly, which dominated social democracy, found it to be an indirect amendment to the Constitution, which disrupts the constitutional division of competences. To date, many have changed, for example, that a European fiscal compact has been created, but the Czech constitutionality has not changed to that extent. Then it was quiet for a long time, it didn't bother anyone, it seemed that we were living in a time when only the successes and social benefits were coming - we entered the EU, the economy grew, though not everyone had the appropriate axis, and suddenly a crisis came, both world and European, and in the times of Petr Nečas' government, namely in October 2012, a government press with the number 821, which had already been prepared on the committee's soil, where not only the constitutional majority, but above all a sustainable, more sustainable common view of the matter, appeared this time. And he wasn't easy to find. According to the opposition, where social democracy and KSČM were in particular at the time, it was a proposal that was too hard to bind economic growth, because we were at the time when we thought, especially government representation thought that the only thing to do was to cross through to stability, and there were reservations, because it is a package of laws, so it is today, so as far as the intervention in the Constitution itself is concerned, there were reservations about the lack of agreement and uncertainty in the implementing law. The well-known fact that early elections took place did not lead to the conclusion of this dispute between the coalition and the opposition, and as a kind of memento of the time when this law had great support, so the TOP signed up in December 2013, this time it is our term of office, with the press of a relatively low number 24, which returned to what was presented by the previous government, namely Petr Nečas, and supplemented some - from my point of view rather formalistically, but supplemented, it should be said - the missing questions, especially as regards the implementing law. This proposal was also rejected at first reading, with the fact that constitutionality is once again out of control, that is an interesting argument that is constantly repeated, and that it binds the sustainability of our economy's development. And the result is now ahead of us, the fourth version, which is the proposal of the government of Bohuslav Sobotka. Those who watched as it bubbles in coalition structures may have noticed that there were certain approaches and versions of this law, the version coming from the Ministry of Finance, which is logically a major guarantor in this matter, and so we finally have a version on the table that is and will be bought, and as we have heard in a technical remark in particular by colleagues Kalousek in order to find it sufficient, they must return to the corridor that outlined the proposals from the time of Petr Nečas or that opposition proposal TOP 09. On the one hand, the reservations of constitutionality are not answered, and on the other hand, they are not discussed in what, and how, the underliance of economic development could occur, virtually. sustainability of economic growth. In the debate a month ago, I even noticed that some coalition MPs, namely colleague Klaška, were performing, who pointed out that this version, as it offers the debt ceiling, and which is far from what I would say, was less forceful instruments, as the ceiling will prevail, and that it is actually heading the economy into the decision-making situation that he called the known concept of the fiscal reef, which was at a time when the US economy was in a deep crisis. Fiscal cliff means so much that the economy could fall off a cliff if its elementary operating costs are not paid, and that is in the cutting process, when some costs simply have to be paid, they cannot be postponed. That's how it works. [[12.20 hours]] So the real problem of the fiscal reef seems to be perceived by the coalition structure, but it just doesn't go into the form of a concrete solution in the constitutional mechanism. So it's about history from 2002 to today. My second comment or comment package is therefore aimed at how to work out a reasonable outcome, how to reach a valid constitutional consensus, when it will not be glued or whipped out of Members who somehow wander off and form a government majority into the necessary constitutional majority. Let's leave aside that in the previous period there was a government commission - we won't be able to catch up. Now we are in a situation where we need to look for an ex post agreement, but the more serious thing should be the debate not only over the constitutional law itself, but especially over the other two legal titles that follow. If I remember correctly, the debate was actually already merged, and so how to adjust it to a form that would be voteable. And we actually have three basic options here. Either the religion, i.e. the authors of previous versions, of which the visible speaker is colleague Kalousek, or to realize to what extent the consistent mechanism is already designed and in its effectiveness only delayed, i.e. the European fiscal compact and the Czech solution, and to think really of a design that would not bind economic growth, or by some partial concession to meet colleagues - now I do not know whether from Dawn or post-Dawn, I am now unable to monitor at what stage they are - but who are also apparently offering some of their votes to this constitutional majority. I think the deal should work out some parameters. I'm going to mention them here, and since I'm no longer an idealist, I don't expect an immediate answer or an exhaustive answer, but I think it would be worth paying attention to these parameters. I have actually touched on the first parameter, and that is the relationship between the European fiscal compact and the Czech debt brake. It is a fact that if the European system does not in any way complete - either it does not soften or harden - I am actually asking why we are doing this at all. So, as the people say, the wolf eats and the goat stays whole? That, I think, would not be worth the law of such importance. The second parameter is the fiscal policy philosophy and what we imagine under the consolidation of public finances, i.e. whether the consolidation should be merely restrictive, whether we can only get to the stability of public finances through cuts and cuts in expenditure even in situations where restrictions can have a strong negative effect. In this mechanism, I draw particular attention to the sensitivity of the methodology of calculation. structural deficit. I am now passing the debate on the fact that the government itself broke up with this criterion a little bit in the definition that is being used, that is, in the definition of European. And then there's the so-called. escape clauses that actually allow another fiscal policy to be adopted in a specific situation. That's where the situation is listed. The question is whether it is exhausting, because I must point out that life is not always cathedral, textbook, and it is far from just eliminating the consequences of the so-called. the business of the cycle, which nowadays is by far so significant, determining, and even in the European dimension does not synchronise. This does not have to be the elimination of one-off structural transformation interventions, because apart from, for example, the point of the previous one that we discussed here, namely pension reform, so many transformation processes have already been passed by this Republic, this economy. But there is a problem with the non-cyclical stagnation of the economy, where we can actually get into a bad economic situation outside the economic cycle, and with the strict provisions of the financial constitution, we can give up any pro-growth instruments to get out of this situation. And then there are the problems of some segments of the economy. One segment is the health insurance sector. The truth is that the methodology, as it is applied, involves the public sector as a whole and basically as if it had prohibited the sector of health insurance companies processing health plans from this sector. But those health plans must provide a certain role for the public health sector in particular, because, as you all probably know very well, as well as in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, there is Article 31 which imposes - and it is the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms - it is part of the constitutional order, which is a standard of significant legal force, which requires the provision of affordable health care for all. And if there's no money, you can't. So there's an obvious collision. Another similar collision is in the public administration segment. The public administration is relatively independent of the state. After all, so says the competent, I suspect the eighth, article of the Constitution, and yet we want to restrictively direct certain parameters to them. And since we are aware that this is a problem, it was already proposed in version 2012 that the effectiveness of this mechanism for the territorial budget sector be postponed. It was 2012. There was a delay until 2018, or five or more years, if I count correctly. But even then, it was known that the economic situation of the local authorities was such that 400 municipalities, even some statutory cities, would get involved in what they say. And the situation has not improved, even though the economy has come out of the great global crisis. If I take the actual data seriously, 500 municipalities would fall into the extraordinary proceedings this time, and the number of statutory cities involved is even larger. So there's something to discuss. These parameters are very important, and I would very much hate for us to do this if this proposal goes through second reading, first of all, and secondly, the compromise on the creation of the constitutional majority is actually built on some sort of random and hand-to-handle, because it would undoubtedly come back as a boomerang. Of course, fiscal philosophy can be more. I think that, overall, the outside world has taken a not entirely thought-out and right path. But we may not be more papal in this regard than the Pope and the loop that may not be fatal, but it's risky so that we can tighten even more than necessary around our throats. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u7	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then Mr Marek Černoch, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u8	Thank you for the floor. I applied for a factual point because my colleague Dolejš here said that a financial constitution is acceptable to us only when he returns to the corridor that we presented back then. But please, that's not true at all. I'm repeating my position here, which I told the government. Here are two indicators complementaryly linked, which limit budgetary responsibility: the amount of debt and the development of the structural deficit. For each country, one or the other indicator is more critical. For us, the structural deficit is critical. And our offer is that although we have reservations about this draft financial constitution, we are prepared to support it provided that the government is responsible for the second indicator of budgetary responsibility, which is much more important to us, and that is the development of the structural deficit, and will reduce it at that minimum recommended rate of half a percent a year, which is 20 billion, which should be absolutely no problem. It would be enough not to recruit hundreds of officials, raise their salaries, and stuff money to the oligarchs under special programs, and we have 20 billion at home. [[12.30 hours]] If the government does so, we will also support this proposal, however we disagree with it. If the government does not accept this and does not want to reduce the structural deficit, then we will not play with you to fake structural responsibility. I'm going to conclude by understanding that even in the long run, every petitioner has to go to the bathroom sometimes. However, the absence of the petitioner has already exceeded the time, after which a very long downhill slope is going down. I therefore give the procedural proposal to interrupt this hearing until the petitioner returns. This is disrespect for the House, and we should not suffer it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u9	I thank Mr Kalousek. I, of course, if you take this as a procedural proposal, will save us the factual remark of Mrs Černochová, thank you for that. I will, of course, have it voted. First, I'm going to check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your identification cards, and as soon as the number of entries is settled, I will vote on the presence of Mr. Speaker, Mr. Finance Minister and Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. He's here. Mr Kalousek no longer insists on his proposal, so we do not need to vote on it. We will continue with Mr Marek Černoch's speech in a proper debate on this draft constitutional law. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, Dear Government -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u11	I will ask the House for peace so that you can speak in peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u12	I thank the Minister for coming back so quickly. First of all, the Fiscal Constitution says that the correction mechanisms are starting at 55 percent of the debt. But this may be a two-edged weapon, and we rather want to look to other countries, such as Switzerland, rather than Croatia. That is where the debt brake is set, which can effectively tame the federal budget in a fundamental way. Switzerland is today one of the few countries where the budget is under control. On the contrary, Poland is an example of how this should not turn out, which also has a similar deficit stopwatch built in. But there, after approaching the debt limit, they took a really drastic step and nationalized money in pension funds. The state took all their government bonds to pension funds there. This reduced the debt, and Poland withdrew from the debt brake again. Of course, it's a path we probably shouldn't go. One more possible scenario, which is also real. The state will start approaching the debt limit dangerously, and at that point the government will propose a drastic tax increase as countermeasures, which, of course, will bury the economy, and we believe that raising taxes is a road to hell. That's why we're making the following proposal for our club. We will support the fiscal constitution, but only on the condition that a ban on tax increases is added to the Constitution. It is what is true today in the very constitution of Switzerland. There is a set rate limit for example on income taxes. The ban on tax increases is an offer that we are presenting to the coalition for our club. Of course, we are willing to discuss specific parameters, and we hope that such a proposal will address the government, because this law requires a constitutional majority in the House, which the government does not have in itself. We are also curious to see if anyone from the government will oppose tax increases. One last sentence. We're doing a seminar where renowned economists should perform. Among the leading guests is economist Pavel Kohout, who is the father of the idea of banning tax increases in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u13	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. Mr Radim Holeček will now take the floor, Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many have already been said here, which is why I will only leave my original speech with a very narrow version, but I would like some of the things I want to say to be said. The proposal for a financial constitution from the workshop of the government coalition is, as has already been said, only a completely relegated version of the originally seriously intended financial constitution that we have prepared in the past. The basis of your government coalition's proposal, the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, is that it does not endanger the flood after us in any way you advocated a splintering deficit policy. The Czech Republic, thanks to the good rating that we have obtained so far responsible but unpleasant austerity policy, has reached a cheaper debt service. That and the fact that, thanks to the end of the western world's roughest financial crisis, which I hope we are still a part of, could mean that we will finally reach a balanced budget. It would be enough to keep up to date budgetary discipline, and growth in GDP would bring our republic to its desired state. Unfortunately, your approach is closing this trip. It is a fact that we appreciate every step of budgetaryly responsible management, but unfortunately, you have tabled a proposal that does not fundamentally move us anywhere and is basically toothless. Clearly, the aim was only for the media to check out that you submitted a proposal called the Financial Institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u15	I thank Mr Radim Holečka. Mr Vladislav Vilímec has the floor now and Mr Beznoska will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt about this, and we may all agree that the Act on budgetary responsibility is needed and should be an effective brake against the creation of high deficit budgets and the gradual breakdown of public finances at all. Governments always take place in the term of the parliamentary term, and mostly they don't care so much about what happens next. There were several attempts at law to adjust the rules of further debt. They were listed by Mr Dolejš. I'm not that old-timer. However, I experienced the experiment in 2012-2013. The opposition did not reject such a law at the time, but in fact did everything to prevent it from being adopted, even after the then Nečasův government, for example, accepted all the demands made by representatives of social democracy after the first reading. You know, I compared the then government draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility with the proposal that went into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, as well as the proposal that went into the Chamber of Deputies from the Government. While the Constitutional Act of 2012 contained 15 articles, the proposal of Minister Babiš, released into the external commentary of nine articles, the proposal we are discussing now contains only six articles, and the sixth one is an article on the effectiveness of the law. But it's not the number of articles at all. While the original draft constitutional law defined a specific obligation after the adjustments made to the Committee on Budgets from 45 per cent of the amount of public debt, minus the reserve of funds in financing the sovereign debt, it is now up to 55 per cent. This, too, may not be the most important thing, and this has already fallen. [[12.40 hours]] However, unlike the version that went into external commentary, the government's originally clearly defined steps were removed from the constitutional law and replaced only by vague wording that the measures provided for by the Act on budgetary responsibility rules would apply, leading to a long-term sustainable state of public finances. Not a word about the government submitting to the House a proposal for a balanced or surplus state budget in such a case, and certainly a word that in such a case it must ask, as was in the previous proposal of 2012, respectively. 2013 about the vote of confidence. Defendants of this torso of the Constitutional Act initially presented claim that everything is described in the Implementing Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. However, this law is no longer a constitutional law. A constitutional majority is not required to approve it, and governments can therefore change such a law without major problems. But even there, in the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility, there is nothing to be said in the case of the State that governments might have to present a balanced or surplus budget when reaching the level of debt of 55 percent of the nominal gross domestic product. It is merely envisaged, and I would like to point out that such a balanced or surplus budget will be approved by a territorial self-governing whole. Here, at least, I acknowledge that the amendment from the 2013 constitutional law was adopted, even the one that I submitted to the Committee on Budgets, albeit in a different formulation. It is difficult to deal with the fact that the measures lay down specific obligations for local authorities, health insurance companies, but there are no strict rules for the government to present the core document such as the draft state budget. Only an obligation to present a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies that will lead to a long-term sustainable state of public finances. So it is a formulation where each government finds its own, a formulation that is so vague that it will hardly be an effective brake on further debt. On the one hand, it is ordered that local authorities manage even before the debt brake starts to work, so that the excess of debt on a balance sheet date above 60 per cent of the average of their revenues over the last four financial years will be penalized by the retention of a share transfer of 5 per cent of the difference between the debt achieved and that threshold of 60 per cent, i.e., to put it simply, being penalized within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, and here I have to say that local authorities will have an advantage over the municipalities of the region, because the regions, given that they can also include the so-called revenue. flow subsidies for teachers' salaries in regional education or social services will therefore be very difficult to receive above 60 per cent. It is more complicated for municipalities because, as defined in the Bill on Budgetary Rules, in the draft law, income for the purpose of this Act means the sum of all cash transactions entered into the budget during the financial year. This means that the regions will be able to count all subsidies there, even so called. flow subsidies, so this will increase their annual revenues by up to 50 or even 60 percent. The municipalities will not be able to and can actually get into trouble in the event of some major investment events. I'd like to point that out. As if the local authorities were involved in the overall debt of public finances for the most part. The opposite is true. The debt of these local authorities is still below 120 billion. CZK, in the sum of the village and the region. After all, it may also be worth pointing out that in the past and the previous year, local government institutions improved the overall government deficit according to the latest data of the Czech Statistical Office processed as part of the notification of government deficit and debt in 2014. I don't see much of a problem there. But where clear rules are most needed, this is in the case of the state budget, we will not be able to read this in this draft constitutional law or other laws. That is why I have a similar feeling as my colleague Radim Holeček, that the submission of this proposal will in principle remove some task as if it were more or less merely a technical matter, but not a standard which has not been submitted to a standard which will effectively limit further debt and the creation of deficit budgets. And that's a huge shame. I believe the Minister of Finance is aware that if the constitutional law in particular does not change in second reading, he can hardly expect support from the opposition, support that would allow this constitutional law to be approved by the necessary constitutional majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u17	I thank Mr Vladislav Vilímc, and before we continue with the debate, I will say an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From this afternoon's meeting, Minister Robert Pelikán apologizes, from 12:40 to 13:00, and from 12:00 to 4:00, Mr Koubek apologizes for working Adamová. Now, Mr Adolf Beznoska, Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, colleague Vilímec from the same side, of course, the same opinion and the same subject. I would just like to briefly remind you of some points, so that you will realise not only this point that we are discussing, but also something about the rules on budgetary responsibility. For the ODS, the topic of budgetary responsibility is, of course, a long-term issue. My colleague Dolejš mentioned here that we had it in our program in 2002. The ODS also pushed the financial institute into the coalition after the 2010 elections, and in 2012 it made an effort to bring these rules into the law. It's our long-term goal. Unfortunately, and I will add to the votes that say this: Yes, let us think about budgetary responsibility, but it cannot be built this vaguely, and this budgetary responsibility cannot consist only in setting one parameter without following further concrete steps on how governments or other local authorities should behave under proper budgetary responsibility. Let me just give you a few examples of what the original, let's say, sharp design, including the rules, with a proposal that you have in front of you now. The original proposal clearly specified the report on the government's budgetary strategy, which was an instrument for the enforcement of sustainable state budgets. First thing. The original proposal required the approval of the state budget by an absolute majority of all Members in the event of excessive deficits. The original proposal also contained a provision according to which the government had to ask for confidence in the event that it deviated from the results of the management and that confidence had to be requested from the Government's point of view even if the government had submitted an excessive deficit in two consecutive years. The original proposal, and this is a big subject that we must certainly discuss, also meant that personal responsibility was appreciated. Using the precisely described mechanism, as prepared, Members who participated in the poor management of the state or other local authorities were "punished" on their salary. One of the sharpest criteria was that, in the case of a provisional budget, all Members voting and members of the Government would be reduced to 70 per cent. Of course, there is no provision, neither in the rules, nor in the law, and I don't think that's the aim of a government coalition. The original proposal also referred to budgetary schemes, with a limit deficit of 3% of GDP defined. If we are talking about a limit of 55 per cent, and today we are about 12 per cent below this limit, it is clear that by the end of 2017, by the end of the parliamentary term, this law fulfils one function, namely media. It's gonna look good in the media. From a practical point of view and with the effects of really forcing constitutional and other factors for responsible management, this proposal does not actually count. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u19	I thank Mr Adolf Beznosk. Mr Jan Zahradník, then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Chairman of the ODS Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u20	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, only very quickly. I would like to comment on what was a significant part of my life close to me, that was the management of local authorities, namely the regions. I would like us to realise to what extent this instrument, which we are about to approve here, is effective. When we look here, the debt limit for the local government, for example for the region, is 60 per cent on average of revenue over the last four financial years. If we take this as an example of the South Bohemia Region, we can say that the total volume of annual income was around CZK 10 billion. Of this, about one half are the so-called own income of the region, i.e. income that the region receives as a share of shared taxes, and the other part, i.e. roughly 5 billion, are state subsidies that simply come in. The region does not decide on them in its self-governing capacity, so, as my colleague Vilímec said, they are grants through the flow. So he can't talk about them and make decisions. So the bar here is set at CZK 6 billion, which, in my opinion, is a hard-to-reach limit. In my opinion, they will be able to indebt the regions and they will reach that limit very difficult in my opinion. Unless they really manage as little responsibility as this law allows them to. But would they be expecting them if, by any chance, God forbid, they got into this problem? Thus, according to paragraph 2 of Section 16, if they did not reduce their debt during the second period, the Ministry could decide under the Act to suspend the transfer of a share in the tax return. So half of the income would end up in the Ministry and the regions wouldn't get it. What such a region would do, then, is unknown. I guess the D.O.D. would have to cancel it after that. So I'm joining the criticism of my colleagues. In my opinion, I consider this law to be an inadequate law, which is more like a certain alibi of this government to the promises it made before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u21	I thank Mr Zahradník. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now. Let's see if we can finish these points by noon break. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u22	We'll see, colleague. Since the debate is so fragmented in a few days, I certainly have to repeat some of the issues, and then I want to ask three specific questions, and it doesn't matter if the Minister or the rapporteur will answer me, both of them are members of the leadership of the YES movement, so I'll leave them to the answers to those questions. When I said it was a useless law at the last point, it's double that point. We approve of de facto just the title. There's nothing else. And I already said in my first speech on this point that if the Finance Minister had succeeded in the government and came up with this proposal that he had written and sent to the commentary proceedings, we might have some critical reservations, perhaps we would have some amendments, but we were prepared to support the proposal in principle. Because there really was a debt brake. We can have a debate when to start it, if 50 percent or 55 percent. It's not that important. The important thing is for the mechanism to be there. And it is still true that we are willing to accept the limit of 55% of GDP when we are sure that this will not be the case in this parliamentary term. But that's okay. If that principle were to come into our legislation, then if it ever happened, and it doesn't matter whether in this, in the next or over the next parliamentary term, debt brake mechanisms would automatically start. The government has made it easier on itself by actually taking the debt brake measures out of the constitutional law, as all previous proposals have tried, which means that the change may actually be based on a broad consensus in the Chamber of Deputies, because 120 votes out of 200 are a broad consensus. I do not remember a government that has more than 120 votes, and at least some part of the opposition always needed synergies. The government is making this very easy, and it actually says - even the toothless rules that it proposes at point 16, any government majority can overvote. If we say that the Senate could possibly return it or the President could return it, then in both cases 101 votes are enough. A functioning government coalition must have at least 101 votes, or if it were a minority government, it would have to have negotiated support. Even the model of minority government is legitimate and in many countries to the west of us, especially Scandinavian, is successfully used. That means there's nothing out of a constitutional policy. It's a common law, a common majority, no offense. But then why are we playing at the fact that we have a constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, when, in particular, the circumstances of the debt brake can change any government majority either by the number present if it does not return the Senate or by the President or by the number of 101 Members, and we will certainly agree that the government, which does not have 101 Members, does not have a long term in the Chamber of Deputies. First of all. That means, that's the first argument, I'd say unfair, which the government used. In that original proposal by the Minister of Finance, the instruments were debt brakes in the constitutional law. That is a good thing, and we will also propose this in the framework of committee discussions. We've announced that we won't propose rejection because we think we need the law, but there has to be a point. He can't be as empty as he is right now. So I'm going to say that we're going to propose a few amendments, and it's going to be in two groups, or three groups. The first will be that we propose what the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš proposed in his original material. We are also prepared to vote for this. The second block of our amendments will aim to reflect our view of the matter, as we would do, if we had the political strength to do so, what we would put forward. And third - we will definitely try instead of 55 percent to suggest 50 percent. The third is not important for our final vote. We propose 50 per cent because we think it is better, but even if most of the Chamber of Deputies decided to stick to the original number of 55 per cent of GDP, we are also able to support the law. However, if our proposals or proposals that support the original material of the Minister of Finance fail, we will vote against and we will try to persuade the entire opposition to proceed in this way so that we do not have such a constitutional law, which is absolutely nothing, in our legislation at all. My colleagues, who have experience from municipal or regional policy, asked questions about this limit of 60 per cent of their own income, which logically includes the revenue that the state sends, there is no tax revenue. But I think there's a bigger thing. In this proposal, there was a transitional period, and the debt brake for self-government was to be triggered as of 1 January 2020. The next municipal elections will be in the autumn of 2018. This means that it can only be applied really in the budget in 2019. At the same time, in 2018, municipal elections and new political representations of those cities will take place, and no matter what composition they take, they will inherit some kind of economic situation and basically have a month or maybe two to prepare a budget that will prevent the excessive debt of the municipality. Which we agree on. If you have an election program, it's probably not in your electoral program that you're going to stop all expenses to cut them down. If this had been the case since 2020, the new political representation also has at least three budgets, or two budgets, by which it can adjust the management of cities, municipalities and regions, and really only in 2021 could eventually be approached by the State or the Ministry of Finance. Yes, it is true that we have a lot of debt to several municipalities. But I think there's less than 20, or somewhere around 20. Out of a total of 6,200 I feel like 43 or 50, it's a negligible percentage. [[13.00 hours]] At the same time, the total debt of cities and municipalities is negligible to what the State owes. Moreover, municipalities and cities pay off their loans. They just don't have the comfort situation the state's supposed to be in. I say again for any government, so that it is not perceived as a criticism of this government. For any government. The Czech Republic has not actually paid the crown of debt it produces since its creation. We're talking about whether we have lower or higher interest on the debt service. We've got them lower, that's good. Still, last year I think it was, the issue was published by the Ministry of Finance, a little over 55 billion crowns. If you look at the state budget, I think it's the third highest pension and salary of all employees, whether they're subject to the Service Act or not, and it's much higher than the total spending we're putting on the military, the police. And that's how I could name more and more ministries. But I say, it's a good thing we pay low interest. But the number is much more important and more serious for the general state of public finances than the debt of cities and municipalities. If you look at the debt of cities and municipalities and regions, I'll stay with those cities, with municipal policy, that number is about 120 billion, and half of it is four of the largest cities. I'll round it up a little bit, it's not exactly accurate. This means that all the other 6 240 municipalities have a total debt of 60 billion and are paying back. Somewhere on better terms, somewhere on less favourable terms. And it is a good thing that every political representation in that place decides whether to take credit or not. Here too, if we run it by 2018, you know that you often have to prefinance European money. There is such a mantra in Czech society that we need to exhaust every euro. The moment you have to prefinance it, you have a bigger project, so one year, you're going to grow a total debt. Logically. Because there's no other way to do it. However, the bill does not remember this, and it can quite simply happen that the 60 per cent will be exceeded. In particular, if a smaller municipality makes any major investment action where it can have a participation of between 5 and 15 per cent by type of programme, and it can be some sewerage where the volume of the investment can be greater than the annual budget. Banks do so by providing you with a guarantee if you are interested in a loan, if you have a signed contract with a provider of European money. The bank is sure that the money will come directly to the village and they won't come anywhere else. The possibility is real. And I think the original proposal on 1 January 2020 was just better. And that is my first question about the processor and the rapporteur. Why did the government decide to shorten the transitional period by two years for municipalities to lose two years, while this is not the real problem of Czech public finances? This seems pointless to me, and I think it is more correct to the date of the next municipal elections to leave the original deadline on January 1, 2020. Then the second thing. In that original proposal, whether it was ours or the Minister of Finance, it was that when the state reached that threshold, which today is set at 55 per cent, the government had to submit a proposal for a balanced or surplus state budget. That is what I think is an effective tool for us to get back below the border, which will best be established by constitutional law. However, not only did the government get it out of the constitutional law into the normal law, I already talked about it, but instead of this really brake, it invented a kind of rubber text that I believe my colleagues from social democracy pushed through, saying that the government would present a draft state budget that would ensure sustainable public finances. And I don't know what that is. That is the second question to the Minister or the rapporteur. What are we to think of as sustainable public finances? If it's a socialist "sources just are." Or what we're supposed to imagine under it. What is balanced or surplus budget, everyone understands. What is the budget that ensures the sustainable development of public finances? Anything can be hidden under it. It is similarly a rubber paragraph or text used by the European Commission when it talks about what a structural deficit is of the state budget. Whoever of you will honestly try to find an accurate definition of what a structural deficit is of the state budget, I guarantee you won't know. [[Time!]] What time? I don't have a limited time limit. I didn't have a factual point. [[Restlessness in the hall, Members of Parliament point out that it is past one o'clock, that it is already time for lunch break.]] That must be Mr. Control. Don't ask me to do that. If Mr. Steering Meeting interrupts me, I'll respect that. If not, then... But I'm not going to quit yet, for those who are hungry, so that you know and are not surprised. Because it's an extremely serious matter... He pretends it's a constitutional bill. The government coalition is pretending to want the votes of the opposition, virtually. must stand by the votes of the opposition, if he wants to approve it, if it is not just that: we have fulfilled, we have submitted, the House has not approved it, we are moving on, we can check this out. So I would really like some definition, at least rough, of what sustainable public finances are. Now that we've crossed the 50 percent of GDP threshold. When you look at the debt-brake tools that are in the normal law, not constitutional, the government consistently avoids its own responsibilities. He says what health insurance companies should do. It says what other organizations are supposed to do, which are state and which are not directly among the central authorities of the state administration as ministries. It says what cities, municipalities and regions should do. He's quiet about the government. And then you have the courage to say it, to call it the draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility - the EU. I just don't see the budgetary responsibility there. She's just not there. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, some Members are getting up and leaving.]] I'd like Mr. Vice President to at least set me straight when some of them are nervous, so it's quiet here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u23	Of course, I will ask the House to keep it down, or to transfer your debates, which do not concern the constitutional law and the following two laws, outside the Chamber. You may proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u24	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for negotiating relative peace. And then I want to ask Mr Komárek in particular, I will follow up on the debate from the last point, as the Minister of Finance thought his proposal, which was sent from the Ministry of Finance, which says that the debt brake will involve the power of the government - not Parliament, but governments - to reduce pensions. It's black and white, it's not a lie of the opposition. Whoever hasn't read it, I suggest you download it from eKLEP, that's where the original bill is. There are only two options. First of all, the Minister meant it and the coalition partners wouldn't let him. Or the second that the minister doesn't know what went on in the draft from his ministry. I'm logically leaning towards the first one. I do not believe that, in the constitutional law, the Minister of Finance does not know what the content of the law is. But other ministers sometimes say that they don't know what their ministries are criticizing about the proposals that their colleagues make, that they don't, but some external or internal officials, and that they're actually completely innocent. Well, that's a question for the Minister. What did he mean by that? Why did he step aside? Who actually stood up to the government the most against it? I say for us that this is a proposal that is extremely courageous, which we would not support, because I think that such things should be decided by Parliament and not by executives that will reduce pensions by their decision. Moreover, when, at least during this parliamentary term, the trend is growing that more and more government members are those who have not passed the elections. This means that those who have received the mandate are not those ministers, and those who have not obtained the mandate in the elections are ministers, and they would like to have the power to decide on such high-level matters as a reduction in pensions. Mr Komárek can twist his head. He obviously didn't read the proposal, or he'd have to agree with me. It's in there in black and white. I can print out the bill at the expense of our club and bring it to you in person and hand it over. Because when someone's protesting something, they should at least know what the basic material looks like. So that's another question for the processor. Why did they make the proposal? And why did they step away from him? I think that's quite a legitimate question. To conclude, if the government really wants to support some part of the opposition, it should put the debt brake into constitutional law. If he insists, then point 15 is completely unnecessary and we can only discuss points 16 and 17. They're standard laws. Why not? They can be approved like this. Why not? But with constitutional law and the fact that we have it in constitutional order, and with the fact that a significant majority of the Chamber of Deputies is in control of the basic parameters of state debt. [[13.10 hours]] One more thing that was interesting in my opinion in our proposal, which is lacking in the proposal. The government's obligation at a time when, for example, the percentage of debt to GDP is exceeded, and it is repeatedly, to come to the Chamber of Deputies for trust. And that's a normal majority. Because the government is gaining confidence at the moment when the majority is present. There's no need for that one. And even that fell out of the bill. I don't understand why. It's a legitimate move. If it were as part of the automatic debt brake, the government that has a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, it would simply come here under the bill, ask for confidence, and if the government, whatever the government coalition, supports the government, the government will gain confidence. It's not unusual, it's not even a mistrust where you need 101. A simple majority of Members present will suffice. The only thing that's changed is that we haven't experienced it in this term, that we're gonna stand up and say whether we're in favour or not. It is absolutely standard, and I do not understand why the government has dismissed this standard element, when it is actually verifying majority support in the Chamber of Deputies, from the bill. Then, of course, in the debate continuing, we will also have questions about the implementing laws and accompanying ones, because one cannot underestimate it, cannot concentrate on those... I had Word do the math. Now, I don't know exactly, I completely forgot the number, but it's more than 950 words, but less than a thousand words is the law on budgetary responsibility. If you take away political proclamations, there is really only one sentence that says: The line where we are going to deal with something is 55 percent of GDP debt. And if the economy is growing, and I think we're all in favour of the economy growing, that it's good news when the economy is growing, then at that point GDP is automatically increasing, and that's either sticking or falling. This means that if the growth of the economy is greater than the percentage of one state budget's debt, the total debt is decreasing in that relative parameter. This is also true of the compound tax quota. At the moment you don't change taxes, your GDP is growing, so your tax quota automatically decreases, because otherwise it isn't mathematically possible. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u25	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Since I have no one else logged in or seen anyone else, I am ending the merged debate on paragraphs 15, 16 and 17. I'm asking if the Minister is interested in the final word. I will give the rapporteur the final word after the break to discuss what matters we will be dealing with, because we will continue after the break, which I will announce after the final word of the Finance Minister, which will certainly answer the questions that have been asked in the debate. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I think what we are discussing is definitely a law that is needed for an irresponsible finance minister who increases debt. And that doesn't concern me. Because it is not true, colleague Stanjur, that the debt is still increasing. I first cut it down last year. It's only 20 billion, but I've totally lowered it. So just for your information: the debt of the public institutions sector increased by 555 billion between 2009 and 2013. So we know what we're talking about. This means that the debt of the public finance sector grew from 34.1% to 45,7 percent. And I reduced it to 43.2% in 2014. So I cut it down by 2.5 percent, and this year I'm gonna cut it down to 41.3 percent. So it's another 2 percent. So I really don't need any debt brakes, because I know that there's no leverage and there's no increase in debt. And we need to keep our finances balanced. I'm doing everything I can. You're doing everything we can to avoid a balanced budget. You criticize carousels - a big laugh - we fight tax fraud, so that's funny, the record of sales is funny to you. So a reduction in pensions, yes, pays two. If it was there, I didn't know about it, and it doesn't concern me. It doesn't concern me. Because I am reducing this country's debt without anyone having to tell me. From Brussels or from the opposition. I know it myself, and I'm doing it. So we're doing everything we can to get the structural deficit where you want it to go. And for that, of course, we need transparent public administration, we need a register of contracts. Not that the contracts will be valid from 1 January 2016, but we need all the contracts that have been concluded. So they know all the people they spend their money on. So we're doing everything at once, and we're doing essential things to increase tax collection. Yes, sales log, that's what we need. Because only in the restaurant sector should we receive 11 billion. And we only get 1.6 billion. So these are all the things that we want us to collect taxes so that everyone will do the same here, under the same conditions. And that's what I'm doing. So I will also submit a budget for next year with a further deficit reduction of 70 billion. CZK, so that we gradually reach a balanced budget. And if it were up to me, and of course we're in a coalition, I'd like to have a debt service of 40 percent. That's all the better for me to negotiate the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u27	I thank the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš for his final words. And as I said, I'm declaring a lunch break. Because not all of them are members of the Organizing Committee who are used to having their lunch break cut short, so I'll do it by 14.45. The first will have the floor after the rapporteur's break with the rapporteur's final word, because the debate is over and I can no longer admit anyone to the debate. Of course, those who have a priority right may bring some things forward, but it will be after the end of the debate and we will be voting on individual points. Because the fixed points were for the whole Wednesday day, so we continue with the interrupted points 15, 16 and 17. Enjoy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our adjourned negotiations. I will wait a little while longer for the rapporteur and the minister to come to the rapporteur's table. Before the midday break, we closed the joint debate on paragraphs 15, 16 and 17, with representatives of the plaintiffs, the Vice-President of the Government of Andrej Babiš, being given the floor after the end of the debate. Now, therefore, the words with the final word will be taken by the rapporteur of these press which we have approved, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets. I therefore ask the rapporteur, Mr Jan Volný, to give his final word. Of course, first I will give him peace in the hall so that he can present his final words to the rapporteur in an environment appropriate to the importance of the constitutional law. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my colleague, dear government, the Minister is here, Mr President. I'm just gonna take this for a little while. I think that all of us - and this has come out of this discussion - are very well aware that it is not a simple law at all, that it is a law that we all need. I heard it both from the right side of the spectrum and from the left side of the spectrum, when I was a little surprised by the opinion of my colleagues from the Communist Party, who said: "The proposals that were submitted in 2012 seemed too harsh to us. This law seems too soft to us." But I guess it's okay. I think and I would like to ask you to let these laws go into second reading. I am well aware that this is a constitutional law, that it will require a constitutional majority to do so, and that we will certainly have a careful and thorough discussion of this law. The colleagues from the top and from the ODS had a good idea that negotiations on the coalition grounds were not quite so easy that we had to set up our opinions there in a compromise and democratic way. Let's put it into second reading, I'm asking you to, and let's work with this law so that we can all be happy in the end and feel like we've done something for this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u30	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I give the floor with priority rights, because there is no debate, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur, allow me to state my apologies, Mr Martin Komárek by 16.30 for reasons of work, Mr Vyzula from 15 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Zdeněk Soukup from 17 a.m. to 19 a.m. and Mr Gabrhel from 14.45 for the remainder of the sitting day. So many apologies. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has the floor with priority rights outside the debate. I cannot give my colleague Fiedler the floor because the debate has already been closed. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u31	Thank you for the floor. The Minister is not here. He said his piece, he didn't answer his questions, he left. However, he won't give it to me, I have to respond to what he said because he was knowingly or unconsciously telling lies. It is not true that civil democrats do not want to fight carousels. It's true we're laughing that Mr. Babiš says that three times a day. The only result is, last year, they arrested 13 billion -- they didn't compliment themselves, they said how well tax revenue goes, and this year they say: tax revenue is not going well, because we have to return the money. But it's not true that we're against the fight against the carousels. That's just not true. Two. It is not true that we are against the fight against tax evasion. That's just a lie. On the contrary, we say that where the state has doubts, it should intervene uncompromisingly and do tax controls. On the other hand, it's true that we're against register cashiers, because it's just a bullying that doesn't bring any money. It has nothing to do with the carousels. Nobody's gonna tell me that small businessmen, small businessmen, small employers are in carousel fraud. I'm sure you didn't. And there are the biggest leaks. And that's where the government has our support. That it is not so easy to negotiate with the European Union, the current finance minister will find that he is not the first to try. It's not true to say "I'm the first finance minister to try." It has also been tried by previous finance ministers, and it is extremely difficult to arrange for competence to be transferred from Brussels to national states. We know, we don't criticize him for that either. I'm just saying that the way he promises to call three times, that he's got ministers on the phone and he's already talked to them doesn't mean he's gonna make it. But I repeat - it's not easy and we know it's not easy. [[14.50 hours]] Now, about the spell. The Minister likes to say, "Although last year was a state budget deficit of 80 billion, but I am reducing debt." So it's said in the bill's proposal that the GDP debt doesn't count the reserves. It is possible to reduce reserves, of course, the first time the Minister of Finance did it, Miroslav Kalousek, which was actually copied by Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, why not, it is the responsibility of the Finance Minister as much as he can. But in the calculation itself, for those 55 percent or 50 percent, those reserves don't count. A debt with no reserves is counted. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, the MPs are having a loud laugh, the speaker is quiet, he's looking around the hall and the noise is getting a little quieter.]] Sometimes you just say nothing, and it's quiet. Thank you. I expected at least the rapporteur to answer me. He here wisely spoke, both from the left, from the right part of the spectrum, four sentences which did not answer anything, but did not answer. I asked three specific questions today, a few last time. I did not know why it was to shift the deadline by two years against the original design of the debt brake against municipalities and regions. I didn't know why they switched it from constitutional law to ordinary. I have not learned what sustainable public finances are. None of it. Then some wonder we've been talking for a long time. Well, because we ask repeatedly, and no one answers. What we learned, however, was that the Minister of Finance said that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, the Minister of Finance, did not know what was in it when he filed a draft constitutional law. I think that's a pretty serious thing. The Minister said that - although it was coming from my ministry, it is a draft constitutional law, it is a key law, but don't be mad at me what's inside, I really didn't know that. It just confirms our opinion that there's only a title in the law. There's nothing there. I think it's the worst option. I don't think so, but I have no way of proving it. The Minister of Finance suggested that the government could reduce pensions, and today he says, "I didn't know about it, it was sent by the Ministry." Is this true of other laws that the Minister sends something he doesn't know about into the commentary proceedings? Sounds like an extremely serious message to me. The Vice-President said it was a serious law. Look how many members of the government are here under such a serious law that is crucial to the government, and now I could raise another adjective here. Neither the Prime Minister nor the Finance Minister are here. The Minister of Agriculture is here. Maybe besides biofuels, he'll cut the financial institute. Why not? I mean, it's also finance, why wouldn't he submit it and answer it? [[unintelligible]] I don't want to criticize those who are present, I want to criticize those who are absent. I am really disappointed, Mr rapporteur, that you did not even bother to try to answer some questions or honestly admit "I don't know." This is not how I imagine discussing constitutional law, and this is how you lead to the House of Deputies simply not accepting the law because you are not willing or able to answer specific factual questions, you just keep saying how important it is, how crucial it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u32	That was Mr Stanjura. Now, with priority right outside the debate, Mr Miroslav Kalousek as Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u33	Thank you. Of course, I appreciate the presence of both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Defence, but at the moment when he is presented by the Minister of Finance to the Financial Institute and the petitioner is not here, I simply am not willing to settle for the argument that he would rather be in the galleys than listen to the drunken Stanjura. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I simply insist that the petitioner be here, and I propose that the petitioner be interrupted by the time the petitioner returns, and please don't make fun of us, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-08-ps2013-026-08-003-999.u34	Of course, I will vote on your procedural proposal without a debate, by checking you all out first and asking you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I will vote on the motion to interrupt the arrival of the Minister of Finance as soon as the number of persons present is settled, in the vote order number 136, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the interruption until the arrival of the Minister of Finance. Thank you. Of the 137 Members present in the vote, order number 136 for 70, against 23. The motion was accepted, but the Minister of Finance has arrived, so we can proceed. We will decide on the proposals that have been submitted, respectively. if the rapporteur controls me - I have managed the rest of the joint debate. There was no motion to reject or return any part of the debate. So first, we will vote on the Parliaments of the Press 411, with the organizational committee proposing to order the draft to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, as a committee of guarantee under the amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act.
