ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u1	8. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the End of Pension Savings /House print 494/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already mentioned in House press number 493, a bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the termination of pension savings, i.e. so-called the accompanying law contains the necessary amendments to the other provisions concerned. The proposals submitted for amendments to the legislation in connection with the termination of the second pillar include proposals for partial amendments in the third pillar. These relate in particular to allowing entry into the system and for children and releasing certain investment limits in order to allow a higher evaluation of participants' resources. Further changes in the third pillar will be made on the basis of the ongoing work of the Expert Committee on Pension Reform. I would therefore like to ask you to discuss the proposed bill at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as the House's press 494/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Roman Kubíček, take the floor, inform us of the committee's discussion and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of the 27th meeting of 2 September 2015 on the Government Bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the End of Pension Savings, House Press 494. After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance, Ms Lenka Jurošková, Mr Roman Kubíček's report, and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, that the Government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the termination of pension savings be approved without comment, second, empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have two applications - Mr Zavadil and then Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in part, let me say a few words about the seven amendments that I have already prepared in June and which were kindly taken over by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets by Mr Votava, who has brought them into the system, and to explain some of the genesis. In any case, these seven amendments did not have an ambition for us to bring the system to a completely different level. The ambition of these seven amendments is to make the third pillar partially attractive. That is quite clear, and that is what makes the individual amendments more attractive. I'll try a very short exposition into it. The first proposal means a comprehensive adjustment of the limit of the tax-free part of the income tax base of natural persons in relation to the creation of savings on old age and the method of calculating the amount - currently there are 30 thousand, we propose 50 thousand. having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament, 1. 2017 so that it doesn't fall into the state budget, which is actually ready for 2016. Otherwise, the impact on the State budget for 2017 would be about 150 million. Kč. That's just for the record. The others no longer have any effect on the state budget. There's one thing that returns a fixed age of 60 years, today there's 65. It doesn't make any sense, because if today's fixed age is 65 years old and at the same age today there's a claim for a benefit, I think at the same age of 60 years, that's a claim for pension insurance, then that person would basically have to wait five years to touch the money. That's why the 60-year adjustment. There is a third thing that allows a child who is already allowed to have his parents spend on supplementary pension insurance from zero age, so that he can make a partial withdrawal at 18 years of age, there is a proposal of 30 percent, a funding which, of course, will only consist of the funds that he places there, because the funds go into the system from three sources. One source is employers, if they contribute, the state contribution, it is, and then it is the client's contribution. Here it is suggested that it be just a client's deposit and therefore only 30 per cent, while the claim or saving goes on there, but it will allow him, at 18 years of age, to choose the means to study or to do such things. Then there's an adjustment to the legal limit for commissions. Here's the interesting thing. Those of you dealing with commission dealers for different types of products know that except for this particular product, all others have no ceiling. There's no ceiling, there's no way the dealers can negotiate with the insurance company any reward. There is currently an amount of CZK 880 on this product, and here is the proposed CZK 1,760. I mean, it's just a relationship between a dealer and an insurance company. [[12.20 hours]] So if we're going to want our clients not to give away, if we're going to be interested in dealing with this product as well, alongside the other, building savings and life insurance, etc., then of course it would be appropriate, and insurance companies also understand that so that the amount of money is released for the amount that I have defined here. That means the amount that is equal to CZK 1,760. On the contrary, there is another amendment. For persons entitled to offer and mediate supplementary pension insurance and supplementary supplementary pension insurance, an administrative relief is proposed in the form of an extension of the CNB registration. Today it is 12 months and actually every 12 months registration has to be renewed, which, in turn, is not for any other supplementary savings. So this is where it's proposed for 24 months. We think it should be a partial comparison with other products. Then there is the sixth amendment, which regulates the legal limits for payment from the transformed fund. Here's the only thing that touches a client a little bit. For total objectivity, it would cost the client, the adjustment, about CZK 80 a year. But once again, it will loosen the hands of funds in their ability to manage money and strengthen some kind of prudent and profitable investment for clients in transformed funds. So if, on the one hand, we say yes, it affects the sum of 80 crowns, so if the return would actually be confirmed, it would come back to them with this. And then there's one thing that's been mentioned here, I think, by my colleague Benda, that suggests the right of a legal representative to close or change a contract for a minor without the consent of the court. Which makes sense, because, of course, it's also a link to the Civil Code, and there I think no one should have a problem with that at all. I've done more or less several meetings with different clubs here, with club presidents, I've dealt with the Ministry of Finance. I've even dealt with that three times. I must say that the first act was not quite the happiest. After the meeting with Minister Babiš, there was another meeting where it had moved on. I hope that we will finally come to an agreement there, that we will fulfil what is in the government's statement that the third pillar should become attractive. There's nothing else. So I say again, it is not an ambition to simply improve in a significant way the pension system, I want to prevent that. But certain steps can, in my view, be made more attractive to our clients and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u7	Thank you, too. Just for the record, Mr Votava will speak in a detailed debate. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I see no one, therefore I conclude the general debate and ask the appellant if he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. Neither does the rapporteur. Therefore, I am opening a detailed debate and, please, to Mr Votava's microphone, Mr Uhlík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would first of all like to sign up for the amendment that I tabled and is in the system under number 2898. Mr Zavadil, who was one of the authors of the amendment, along with some experts, and also with the relevant committee, has been discussed, so here he justified a set of amendments. In detail, I will probably not justify it again, perhaps I will just remind you that, of course, this is an attractive third pillar, not, as may have been the result of Mr Benda's previous speech, I never said that the third pillar would save us, that it would simply save the pension system, that it would replace the ongoing pillar - in no way. I said that it is necessary to reform the ongoing pillar, yes, that this is a task that is faced not only with this government representation, but perhaps also with another government representation, which comes after the need to do something about the ongoing pillar, so that it remains viable and is the main element in our pension system. So this is just a step that makes the third pillar more attractive. There are, of course, some tax breaks. That should also make the pillar more attractive. It is there, as my colleague Zavadil said, a return to the fixed age of sixty years, which I think is also very important. The colleague also mentioned the possibility for minors to enter the system and their legal representatives not to have to ask the court when establishing the contract or amending the contract in order to allow it to do so. There is also the possibility to increase today's regulated amount of commission for the intermediary of this supplementary pension scheme. Maybe I'd slow down here a little bit, because this is the only product that's somehow regulated in terms of commission regulation. Of course, we want this commission to be regulated for example in life insurance, because it's really very high there. I don't mean to say outrageously tall, but really tall. It must also be regulated in some way. So it will be, when we discuss the insurance law, it will also be one of the proposals not to be directly ceilinged, but to distribute commissions over the years, so that contracts don't rewind. So here from the level of 880 kroner, we're increasing it to double-- 1 760 kroner. I didn't count it fast, double. You can see that commissions are not actually quite that big, but they should help intermediaries to simply offer this product and to make more efforts to offer it, because they will also have a larger, slightly larger commission. So much for the amendments, I guess. As I say, my colleague Zavadil, who is the driver who actually initiated the negotiations on the amendments, mentioned this a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u9	Thank you and please to the microphone of the next logged in, and that is Mr. Uhlík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I sign up for House document 2941. I am doing so for my colleague, Klaška, who is duly excused and who is already responding to the amendment, or is parametrically changing or proposing other numbers, other parameters for the amendment, which was loaded here before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u11	Another party to the debate is Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would like to go back to the debate at the previous point, when my colleague here repeated the myth of what was once a pension account, how someone merged it. I think we need to tell each other the facts. In the previous regime, the system was ongoing and the income that was paid for the pension was always part of the state budget. In 1993 only changed the way pension insurance was introduced. Until then, it was in the payroll tax. That's the only way. Dramatically, she asked where the money went. The law says clearly what can be done. In principle, the law applies since the 1990s, what can be done with the money collected, for which purposes it can be used. They can only be used for pensions, nothing else. [[12.30 hours]] The only change is that a reserve for pension reform can be created since 2008. That means, even in those years when there was a surplus, they could only be used to raise pensions, they could not be used for anything else. But here in this public debate, it's already considered the fact that some money has been saved here that someone has transferred somewhere else, and they have been spent somewhere else. The fact isn't, and the Treasury will confirm it to you, whoever's there as Treasury Secretary, because it's a simple thing, you can see what the laws were, you can see what the balances were, but even if there was a surplus, you couldn't spend it on anything but pensions. So I'd like us not to spread the myths here from the microphone, rather to tell ourselves how it was, to change the way it was paid, to dissolve no surplus into anything else. Moreover, in the years we talk about, the 1990s, the surpluses were not nearly as large as the deficits that have been in recent years. And it is true, and that is what President Zavadil said, that the deficit is dependent on the economic cycle. When the economy is going well, higher wages are, lower unemployment rates are so logically, because pension insurance is becoming a percentage of gross wage, so it is logical that incomes are growing, so in those years the deficit is lower than in years when, unfortunately, there is economic stagnation or recession, when wages are not rising and when the number of unemployed people is rising. And that's always gonna happen. The business cycle will just work, but we are unable - and we can see it this year, we have massive economic growth and parameters are set so that even this year the system cannot be balanced or surplus. Let's see if it's the 4 percent next year or not. It is true that we could, for one category of pensions, be disabled pensions, that we could transfer them to the social system. I think it would be even more logical, because it is basically a social benefit and the disability pension is not until the retirement age is reached. However, it won't do anything about the imbalance in the whole system. There will simply be higher spending in the social system, lower in retirement, but inputs will not change in any way. But it would be logical, and it would be cleaner, because it has the character of social assistance and not retirement. On the contrary, we think that orphans and widows' pensions should remain in the pension category and not lead them out of the system that the state is declaring to them that it wants to take care of these people more than the others, and that is perfectly fine. And if a group of Members or a government comes up with that change, I would say rather formally that disability pensions will move into the social system, we will certainly agree on that. But that won't do anything about the imbalance of income and expenditure in the pension system. But it would be more logical. I think it's undoubtedly true. At that point, the pension account deficit would be lower, but there would be greater pressure on expenditure in the social system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-005-008.u13	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, I conclude the detailed debate and ask whether there is an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? [[No.]] The rapporteur? Not either. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Before we proceed to the next point, allow me to load two apologies, Mr Šarapatka, who apologizes for today's negotiations from 11.45 to 14 hours for work reasons, and Minister Stropnickýý apologizes from 12.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
