ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u1	170. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of ten responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. The first is Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. He replied to Mr Antonín Sed interview on the reimbursement of cost analysis and health insurance payments to SW LAB, s.r.o. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as a 449 printing. The discussion of this response has been suspended. I am opening the debate and, please, Mr Seďa to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, the Minister of Finance kept his word, we met at the Ministry of Finance last week, we discussed actually cost analysis, agreed that the common objective was to improve transparency in health care efficiency. I asked him, and Minister Babiš promised to cooperate with the Minister of Health Němeček, and that would put an end to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u3	Thank you. So we're done discussing this interpellation. We're going to proceed to another interpellation, and that's an interpellation to Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. He responded to Mr. Petr Bendl's interpellation in the matter of Military Forests and Farms of the Czech Republic, the sale of wood. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 468. The discussion of this reply has also been suspended. I'm opening the debate. I don't see Mr Bendl here, so we're ending this interpellation. We will move on to another interpelation and this is an interview with the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek, who responded to the interpelation of Mr Miroslav Grebeníček on compliance with and enforcement of the Law for the Protection of Peace of the UN Charter and the Hague and Geneva Conventions on International War Law and the Protection of the Victims of War, civilian population and prisoners of war in wars and occupations diplomatically, materially and militarily supported by the Government of the Czech Republic and carried out by NATO Member States and NATO Pact. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 485. I am opening the debate and, please, to Mr Grebeníček's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it was not so long ago that Pope František said the following words: "Today too, peace efforts are colliding with the fact that numerous armed conflicts are taking place in the world. It's kind of the third world war in pieces, and in the context of global communication, there's a climate of war." He added: "It is an atmosphere that triggers and encourages those who wish to clash between cultures and civilizations, and those who speculate with wars to make money selling weapons. " So much for a holy father. What can I say? Perhaps only that the crisis situation in the world will mature again, and it also affects Europe, which has had a number of civilizations behind it, but has not learned much from them. Surely there was also a time when ideas and actions that were far beyond our borders came from the heart of Europe. It is a pity, a pity, that the deep sources of our humanities are almost uninhibited by waves of globalization cosmopolitanism, in which the awareness of the necessity of a new national activity following on all fertile and progressive in our and international scale is drowning. Certainly, solving problems and conditions in Europe is not a matter of any individual country or nation, but a matter of an integrated continent. [[9.10 hours]] Yes, my criticism is directed against the negative accompanying phenomena of contemporary rampant global capitalism, such as local wars, thousands of destroyed human lives, devastated regions and refugee camps. I also criticize the fact that the European Union is slavishly subject to American aggressive policy, and I also resent the fact that the United States of America requires support from governments and citizens of the Czech Republic and participation in actions contrary to the Czech peace-protection law, the United Nations Charter and the Hague and Geneva Conventions. The result is not a higher level of security for Czech citizens or citizens of other countries of Europe and the world, but already mentioned wars and occupations, humanitarian disasters and other security risks. Minister Zaorálek, in reply to my written interview, applied to respect the law on peace protection as well as the UN Charter and the obligations for our republic and therefore for the government arising from international law. And it is gratifying to read that the Czech Government does not intend to participate in the future in aggressions and violations of international law. However, there are some claims in the reply of Minister Zaorálek that require a closer explanation. Do they really think that the circumstances when the United States attacked the former Yugoslavia or Iraq, and when, contrary to international conventions, they deliberately bombed a number of civilian targets and literally barbarically violated the rights of prisoners of war are not contrary to the Charter of the United Nations? Minister Zaorálek also said that our participation in the allied operations of the North Atlantic Alliance assumes elementary trust that the allies know what is subject to international commitments. No, I have no doubt it's the allies of the real thing. That is why I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs what he will do personally and the Government of the Czech Republic to apply appropriate international procedures to the perpetrators of aggression, war crimes and crimes against the civilian population committed by the armies and governments of the North Atlantic Alliance Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u5	Thank you, and I see the Minister of Foreign Affairs rising. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u6	Yes, thank you. This is, of course, not such an easy topic, which Mr Grebeníček raised, and I will try to at least outline the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Czech Government. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] First of all, I think it is quite crucial for the Czech Republic to declare itself as a state to the principles of international law and respect for the rule of law. We must be interested in what is happening in the world, as well as in the way in which the fundamental rules governing relations and behaviour between states are followed. It is for a state like the Czech Republic that this is absolutely crucial, because from the 20th century we have experience of how difficult it was here in the centre of Europe to maintain a truly independent and sovereign state. I would like to say that for a large part of the 20th century we did not actually succeed at all, and I believe that we were not, in fact, a truly sovereign state from 1939 until 1989. I believe that this should lead us to be extremely cautious about how disputes between states are decided and whether force is used in these disputes or whether the principles of international law are respected. That is why I think that we should concentrate on always being on the side of international law in our conduct and behaviour in foreign policy and rejecting the principle that force applies and the law does not apply, that is something to which we should always apply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u7	Minister, I'm sorry. Even though there are so few of us here, there's a lot of noise. I would ask my colleagues to be considerate of colleagues who are intersecting to hear their response to which they are waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u8	Thank you. What Mr Grebeníček has actually raised here is related to the last conflicts that have occurred in, say, the last 20 years, 15 years, and maybe he has a precedent already in 1990, when the newly found consensus of the Security Council allowed collective armed intervention in Iraq at the very beginning of the 1990s. At that time in 1990, the Security Council called on Iraq to withdraw unconditionally from the Kuwaiti territory that it occupied, and since it refused to comply, then the Security Council gradually approved a total of 12 resolutions, in which enforcement measures were actually increasingly being taken without the use of the armed forces. Iraq, however, continued its behaviour, and the Security Council authorised the Member States in November 1990 to force compliance with those previous resolutions. And the wording was "use of all necessary means." It's resolution 678. I mean, it was imperviously armed. Then a military intervention took place in 1991, which was carried out by about 30 states whose troops were under the command of the US. The operation was successful, quite quickly leading to a recovery. This was a very important precedent, the Iraqi precedent of 1991, which was later recycled by the Security Council in other cases of national peace threats. From the point of view of the right to understand this process, I will probably not discuss it here and I will refer you to the book of Jiří Malenovský International Public Law, in which he interprets how it can be understood that, in fact, the signatories to the UN Charter have passed on supranational powers to the Security Council and, on the basis of them, the Security Council itself, instead of the Member States, qualified a situation as a violation or threat to international peace under Art. 39 The Charter and decided under the conditions laid down by the Charter on the specific measures which the States are required to implement. It simply does not, according to Mr Malenovský's international law, prevent the United Nations' supranational powers from authorising Member States to implement specific enforcement measures instead. However, these states must agree with retroactive authorisation. And then, in fact, there was a solution to these other situations, even though the situation was far from identical and the interpretation is not clear at all. Since, in particular, measures against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in relation to the situation in Kosovo, as well as against the Talibán following the Al-Qaeda terrorist attack on New York Manhattan, were not exactly the same as what happened back in 1990 and 1991. Those cases that occurred in Kosovo and then after the Al-Qaeda attack on Manhattan were situations in which the Security Council identified a threat to peace and security, condemned the responsible entity, but did not empower and priori the international community or regional organisations, such as NATO, to the use of armed forces, which, however, Art. 53 The UN Charter explicitly requires. So the U.S. and NATO military operations weren't explicitly approved by the Security Council or posteriori. On the other hand, not only did she not condemn them, but she even accepted implicit military and political results achieved by them in the field and became the creator of a transitional administrative and political arrangement in Kosovo after the military defeat of Yugoslavia. [[9.20 hours]] So, unlike the extensive engagement in Iraq, where I said that a number of resolutions were adopted, the Security Council only showed activity in the Kosovo and Afghan crisis in the initial and final stages of the crisis, and not at the time of its own military solution. In those circumstances, of course, the question is, what international law degree did the intervening powers have to do with the armed intervention, when the previous authorisation for it was not given by the Security Council explicitly or implicitly. Now, if we examine how to answer that question, you'll find that in the debates, in the legal ones, the answer is not clear. On the one hand, UN members have simply transferred their powers of international peace protection to the Security Council. Therefore, only she can decide on enforcement measures and how those measures will be implemented. The obligations arising from this Decision to the Security Council shall take precedence over other obligations imposed on Member States and shall not give Member States room for autonomous enforcement intervention. However, there is a second point that it is hard to justify that the failure of the Security Council to act in a situation that objectively threatens or violates international peace does not change at all the division of competences between the Security Council and UN members. If, in a dangerous situation, this authority is unable to exercise its competence in the manner that the UN members have prescribed for it and expect it to do, then it is hardly sufficient for them to resign, by stating that the absence of their own powers makes it impossible for them to intervene instead. The resignation simply would not be compatible with the objectives for which the Charter was created and therefore with the purpose for which the Member States have transferred competence to the Security Council. It is therefore proposed that Member States can autonomously intervene outside the crippled system adapted by the UN Charter. And the qualified inaction of the Security Council in a particular dangerous situation leads, in the light of this question, to a return to the international legal situation that existed prior to the transfer of competences on the basis of the UN Charter, i.e. to the activation of the law of obligations arising from general international law to Member States. Is that clear? It is simply because the Security Council is unable to be effective and operational, that is how we get ahead of the situation before the rights and obligations have been passed on to it. This is roughly, let's say, the legal basis for considering how it is actually respecting the principles of law in situations that were later in the course of the twenty years. And that debate, if we were to conduct it here more thoroughly, would show that there is not, as you can see, a completely unambiguous and black and white answer, which is probably also due to the fact that the whole system of international law is something that is in a certain movement and which does not give a completely unambiguous possibility of 100% interpretation as we probably have higher at national level. On the other hand, I think that this is the legal level, and then, of course, there is a political debate. And those decisions that were also political decisions at the time, i.e. decisions that must defend against their citizens and also from the point of view of history, and here it is, I can quite easily identify myself with the criticism of what may have happened in 2003, because I believe that the situation here was really very different, in the invasion of Iraq, in the attack on Iraq, and even that is a situation that has also been divided, if you recall, then the European countries where part of the European countries refused to participate in this intervention, and part of them applied to it. And today I believe that the year 2003 is a very warning to us, because we all know that at that time we can consider it a failure of a large part of the society of a number of Western countries, because what actually happened was that information and arguments were accepted, which later turned out to be false and false, which is something that can be said to be coming back to this day. Using it as a justification for using force, using false or even false information is something that cannot be defended, and I think it has also led to a number of things that have fundamentally changed in life and some institutions. I mean the role of intelligence, the verification of evidence. When I think of the North Atlantic Alliance for example, I believe that what happened in 2003 has also led to a change in the way Member States' intelligence services work together. It led to the fact that today they meet practically weekly on regular screenins, where information is being checked, and what is being released as NATO information is really only what is 100% proven is verified. I think that what happened in 2003 cannot really happen again today because it was enough warning and because it was really in something very serious failure. That something was defended in front of the public that turned out to be untrue. Of course, in 2003, the whole event did not have a legal basis, as it had an attack on Iraq in 1991, so even in terms of international law, the debate would probably be far less certain from the point of view of the right to enter Iraq in 2003. Similarly, of course, as I have already indicated here, with the situation in Kosovo. Even there, I think the debate is much more complicated. From what comes from the literature I have at my disposal, it cannot be clearly said that this one, and from what I have said here, could be simply described as a violation of international law, but it certainly was questionable and it can be discussed. Probably the discussion would be pretty complicated. That means that's the legal plane. Personally, I think the other is political. As far as Kosovo is concerned, I myself was the one who raised questions here in the House about whether to support the emergence of an independent state, unless the prerequisites for creating such a viable state were met. Here I refer to the performances I had here, and just so I don't have to repeat it, here I think there's also a wide field of debate, but that's another discussion. I'm mentioning this here to make it clear that it's not always a simple and black and white thing. And when I say that the Czech Republic must be a state that must respect the protection of rights, respect for international law, the Czech Republic is a party to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. We have ratified as a 23rd country the change in the Rome Statute regarding the crime of aggression, which I believe represents the most serious and dangerous form of unlawful use of force which the State can ever commit in international relations. This international criminal justice is an important element in promoting the spread of respect for human rights, international humanitarian law and the rule of law. This is without debate, and I believe that it will always be a fundamental pillar of Czech foreign policy as well. I can also talk here about the fact that, at international level, we have supported a number of initiatives today to support international criminal justice. [[9.30 hours]] It may not make sense for me to list everything here, but another important area is that the Czech Republic advocates compliance with obligations under the UN Charter, the Hague Conventions and the Geneva Conventions on the Protection of Victims of Armed Conflict. We are taking part in the initiative of Switzerland and the International Committee of the Red Cross to strengthen compliance with international humanitarian law. These efforts will lead to the establishment of a mechanism for monitoring compliance with international law, such as humanitarian law, at the 32nd Conference of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent in December of this year. So here I would stand by the fact that we are trying to make the best of our consciences to report to these principles in the awareness of how important this is to our country. And I could do individual cases here: Kosovo, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya. We will all find that in these countries, even events in those countries may be subject to debate. For some of these countries, the situation is not easy at all. In the case of Iraq, Afghanistan was violated by rights being investigated and investigated. Each of these countries would publish for their own debate. But there is one thing I might like to mention as fundamental, because here we were talking about being taken somewhere by the politics of the United States of America. When I am not so long ago, it is actually over the course of less than a year, he had the opportunity to speak to President Barack Obama and I told him that I appreciate the fact that the current United States clearly subscribes to the principles of international law and the principles of multilaterality in international relations. And I also said that because I can refer to a concrete recent US President's speech, in which he has clearly and even very resolutely stood up for the principle of international law on the present planet, even in specific cases. So I'm gonna have to say here that there's no way that we're being dragged anywhere. On the other hand, I think it is extremely important that countries with such weight as the United States and the current administration and the president clearly show that they have drawn the conclusion, perhaps, from the great criticism that has taken place around the events in Iraq in 2003. And that from their current appearances, I think it is clear to me that similar bending of evidence and similar shielding of evidence alleged, which later turns out to be false, is completely out of the question. And it is important that the President of the United States at the UN General Assembly will perform in a speech where something like this clearly and clearly declares something like this. And even the response, which was actually similar in other parts of the country, shows that at the moment the United States is definitely not perceived as wanting to go back to some of these cases that have been mentioned here and that have really damaged the image and reputation of the community of countries that have progressed in a similar way. So I'd like us to distinguish here, to realize the flow of time, to realize who we're talking to on the international stage specifically today, and not to be flat-rate and throwing everyone and everything into one bag. Because when, as I said, I thanked and appreciated these principles in an interview with the US President, it was an absolutely crucial thing for me, because similar expressions and similar expressions at a similar level for the Czech Republic are absolutely vital. And someone who so professes to the principles of international law is an important ally to me, and then I don't find it happy to say the sentences in which we actually question his role in the present world. So I understand the importance of the material, I understand that it can be and that it must even be a fundamental criterion, to what extent Czech foreign policy takes these very principles seriously and respects them. Because if we didn't do that, it would be suicidal, it would be contrary to all the historical experience we have. On the other hand, I would like us to discuss this precisely so that we can be able to discern who our true ally is in this present world today and who we can rely on to prevent similar failures, which concern concealing the truth, disregarding facts and evidence, from repeating. However, I think that there has been quite a lesson in the Alliance among our partners in the European Union. And not just us, but there are many other countries that are aware of the risks of similar practices. So as much as international law is something that, as I said, is moving, and it is not so easily graspable every situation, yet it gives us a certain clue that we must stick to and which is essential. And these things, like the definition of aggression, are still being specified, what it is to respect the sovereignty of the state. This is the thing that we are working on, we are involved and it is our interest and it is also the protection of the Czech state. Whoever is willing to work with us on this, we should consider this as an important ally. I think we have a lot of them. And for the Czech Republic, I think my conscience is clear. We're definitely not gonna play a double game in this, and we're not gonna be hypocrites. I am prepared for a fair debate, and I am also trying to do so here today in response to Mr Grebeníček's interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u9	I thank the Minister and I see that Mr Grebeníček is reporting for the debate. Please come to the microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with great interest, I have listened to the Minister's speech, and I even think that this was a rather serious approach to an additional response to my intervention. Despite all this, I consider it at least appropriate to recall that there are other opinions. For example, the symbolic hours of doom, i.e. the destruction of mankind, this year for the first time after 31 years, have shifted from five to just three minutes to 12 o'clock. It warns or informs the Bulletin of atomic scientists founded in 1941 in Chicago by experts who worked on building America's first nuclear bomb. With parallel to today's situation, it reminds us that when, 31 years ago, in 1984, the United States launched huge arms, including destabilizing missile defense, ice relations between the United States and the Soviet Union of that time and all communication between them ceased. Uncontrolled climate change, the global modernization of nuclear weapons, notes the bulletin, and their huge arsenals pose an extraordinary and undeniable threat to humanity's continued existence in 2015. Yes, I agree with Minister Zaorálk that today what is sensible in foreign policy and what represents the way to hell would undoubtedly be long and complicated. [[debate?]] However, it is a fact that with the security of Europe, or even of the world, those who do not realize that the dangerous escalation of the tensions that we have seen recently can ultimately result in two scenarios. [[9.40 hours]] The first, and many experts point out, is the way to a hot conflict where the party that loses in it reaches for weapons of mass destruction. The second scenario could be even shorter. One side will reach for these weapons as a precaution. The most tragic consequence of the slogan "we are the winners of the Cold War and we must act as such" is that it is said that it is being made out of the unimaginable imaginable, as if the current weakening of today's capitalist Russia is making nuclear war conceivable. It's like it's even possible to win. The power elites of the superpowers who won the Cold War, the ruling class of the United States of America, evidently understood the demise of bipolarity as a relaxed space for their own political, economic and military expansion. The doctrine of preventive use of force and threat by force is then flagrant violations of international conventions. I really have to stand on that. And, of course, the basic principles of international law. So you talked about the subject, and I'm taking a stand on it again. The claimed right of preventive aggression, at least in my opinion, undermines everything that has been achieved in the creation of an international system of legal safeguards for peace and security. The Czech government should not be pushed into the corner by pointless arguments such as: who does not shut up heels and keep his mouth shut and step is for Putin, against the United States and the North Atlantic Alliance, and even against freedom and democracy. Of course, if the Czech Government had a trump card in hand, I mean the result of the referendum on the Czech Republic's accession to the North Atlantic Alliance, it would often not have to be embarrassed. There could certainly not be such a significant conflict between citizens' views and Czech foreign policy. Unfortunately, the globalised world of the present is not a world of mutually beneficial cooperation, exchange of experience, solidarity and assistance. The real policy of the US government and its supporters is based on aggression, military supremacy and effective force actions. The United States should finally realise that the time of all-government powers and games of the world's gendarme, as well as the era of the builders of the only right society and culture, is slowly but is still leaving. The European Parliament's current call to the Member States of the European Union to push the United States government to release international tensions would be considered a small light at the end of the tunnel. Perhaps, once and for all, Europe will succeed in creating a sensible common foreign policy and perhaps its own defence. If this happens, the North Atlantic Alliance will finally follow the Warsaw Treaty, and Europe will become an equal partner of the United States of America. And a little comment. Václav Havel at the end of his political career was enough to tell us that the aim of the North Atlantic Alliance was to push Russia out of Europe into Asia. After your former challenges, you may recall, to the humanitarian bombing, to the extremely militaristic attitudes to address Afghanistan and Iraq's problems, he may have given the North Atlantic Alliance only one role - to promote American interests in the world. Yes, even thanks to Václav Havel, it is quite clear why the lasting peace and democratic security architecture of Europe and the world cannot be based on the existence of an aggressive alliance or the foreign legion of the United States of America. I note that a completely different opinion than Minister Lubomír Zaorálek, regarding the intentions of the United States Government and the progress and outcome of their actions, is, for example, Doug Bandow, a scientist at the CATO Institute, former special assistant to President Ronaldo Reagan's administration and a respected political analyst, who evaluates the foreign policy of Republican governments and Democrats as follows - I quote: The consensus of both main political parties is constant intervention. According to Doug Bandow, representatives of both political parties are only trying to outdo each other in the ruthlessness of intervention. Former assistant to the Reaganův administration critically admits that every intervention by the United States of America is in fact only making the situation more difficult and worse, and every new intervention creates new problems, crises and disasters, which, in turn - and I quote again his words: they will grow into a new round of war, occupation, bombing, humanitarian programs, invasion, diplomatic pressure, and other forms of intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, Henry Kissinger, a respected veteran of American politics and the ex-chief of American diplomacy, has repeatedly commented on the current crisis development of relations with Russia around Ukraine. It is he who strongly pointed out that Ukraine, in the context of its complex history, and of its current problems, should not be a rival of the United States with Russia, but a bridge. But, as Kissinger says, the United States of America has embarked on a classic political game, as evidenced by the eavesdropping of Deputy Diplomacy Nulandová, who, after the coup in Kiev, negotiated with the ambassador who is to lead the country. Yes, I implied that I still see things a little differently than the Minister. Let's see what happens next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u11	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate and I am asking Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, as suggested by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u12	Just moments ago, I indicated the continuing differences in the approach to the issue. Under these circumstances, I would suggest a rejection of the answer and wait for a new answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u13	So it's a disagreement. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. We will wait for the number of Members present to settle. I am opening the vote on the House's dissenting position with the intervention of Minister Zaorálek. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 74, to which 95 are registered. For 26, against 55. I am of the opinion that the proposal has not been accepted. I'm done discussing this point. We will now move on to another interpelation, which is the interpellation of Mr Grebeníček to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who responded to the interpelation in the case of Law No. 428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious societies, a request for information on the extent of claims made, status and risks of settlement of property and financial claims and requirements of the Catholic Church against the Czech Republic and other entities. Interpelation together with response shall be submitted as printing of 486. I am opening the debate and, please, to Mr Grebeníček's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u14	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, the Prime Minister promised to inform the House about the so-called House in the middle of last year. church restitutions, i.e. the hovering of property claims and the process of issuing assets of the Czech State and the payment of funds in the order of tens of billions of crowns from the state budget, mainly from the money of citizens. Of course, I did not take that promise from the Prime Minister at the time as a noncommittal gossip or perhaps even as a consciously speaking untruth. In my opinion, the position of Prime Minister is too responsible for the possibility and priori of not believing that he is serious about what he is saying. Then, when the Prime Minister failed to fulfill his promise by the end of last year, it may have been possible to admit that he had forgotten him and that those responsible for the operation of his office did not, for some reason, remind him of him. That could happen too. I will admit openly that in this context it was an unpleasant surprise for me to find that the proposal for the Prime Minister to fulfil his commitment to the House and the citizens did not support not only the ANO and the People's Clubs, but also the majority of the Prime Minister's own party. And what is even more striking in view of the seriousness of the Prime Minister's position - for the inclusion of this point, and therefore for the fulfilment of his previous commitment, was not even the Prime Minister himself voting. I do not need to discuss too much the undisputed fact that the Chamber of Deputies is not a government institution, but also a government coalition body. According to the Constitution, the House is not and should not be merely extended by the government or any coalition majority when talking about democratic foundations of the state. Therefore, if the opposition invites the Government and its President to lay down accounts of the exercise of power and to provide legislators and citizens with information on the state of compliance with specific laws on the handling of state property and resources, then, if it is a truly democratic government, such a request is required to comply. This is all the more so when the Prime Minister himself makes public promises of information. From what I have now sent, it is clear why I have turned to the Prime Minister in writing on this matter. If, for some reason, the Prime Minister wanted to avoid fulfilling his duties as a constitutional official to the Chamber of Deputies and Members, I took advantage of the possibility of asking the Prime Minister the same question by means of written interpelation and I had already put them in a specific form, knowing that, as a representative of executive power, he had avoided fulfilling his commitment to the House and the citizens for a long time for some reason. I expected a professional approach from the Prime Minister and his professional background, and therefore not idle phrases, general soothing claims, but solid concrete information. The Prime Minister's reply, which you have at your disposal, can easily be convinced that the Prime Minister did not fulfil his response with the required material content. So I had no choice but to ask for the inclusion of my interpelation and its professionally and contently very weak lack of response to the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I stress what bothers me most about the Prime Minister's approach and how he behaves is that he does not keep his own promises and shows respect for the Chamber of Deputies, but respect for the citizens, not even for those who believed in his promises and who voted for him and his party in the last elections to the House. If, before the elections, the topic may have been uncompromising of church property and financial requirements and their review for the Prime Minister and his party was good enough to reach out to his constituents, it is now a question not only of the fundamental conflict between the pre-election promises and the current post-election policies of his party, but it is certainly also a question of the nature of the person who received votes through the topic and promises and, as a result, has taken up the role in which he is to start fulfilling those promises. Rolling the Chamber of Deputies, denying information and denying democratic inclusion and discussing the opposition's proposal, denying even democratic debate, i.e. the unacceptable, undemocratic ways that the current Prime Minister has so long and nicely managed to blame the pro-corruption and clientelist groups of prime ministers Mirek Topolánek and Petr Nečas, those equally unacceptable and undemocratic ways are now being applied by him himself and with him, unfortunately, by many members of the MP's club of his own party. So I ask the Prime Minister: Is there any other explanation than the failure of political and human for open contempt by the House, which the Prime Minister promises anything, but which then is reluctant to provide basic information that not only the Chamber of Deputies but also the wider public is fully entitled to? Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I finally get a serious answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u15	I'll thank you and ask for the Prime Minister's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u16	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, I am pleased that there is still a circus hour left until the end of the written interventions, i.e. there is sufficient room for us now to engage in church restitutions and to inform the Chamber of Deputies of how the law is being implemented. First of all, I would like to say, first of all, that I consider interpelling the Member to be a completely legitimate instrument which the Member has the full right to exercise. I find it perfectly okay that the Member may be dissatisfied with the Minister's or Prime Minister's reply and will apply the request even now in the context of oral interventions, and I think it is my duty in this situation to extend my written reply to Mr Grebeníčk, and to inform Mr Grebeníček, on this point, more extensively, about the subject on which I was asked. So let me now address this particular issue in the context of the answer to the written interpelation. [[10.00 hours]] At the beginning, I would like to reiterate, because the topic of church restitution is a topic of conflict, it is a topic that divided our society, that during the reign of Petr Nečas, I, together with other Members, voted against the adoption of the bill on property settlement with churches and religious societies. The entire Social Democracy Parliamentary Club, which was in opposition, also voted against the bill at the time. However, the law was passed. I would also like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that both the procedure for the adoption of this law and its content were the subject of three complaints lodged at the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, namely senators and social democracy, Public Affairs and also KSČM. In its decision of 29 May 2013, the Constitutional Court rejected its objections to the law. The procedure for the adoption of the law and its content was thus found in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. As at the time, we, as the opposition party, have exhausted the possibilities that we had in the situation when the bill was passed by the then government majority and, therefore, the Constitutional Court assessed its compliance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic and unfortunately, the complaint that was filed for both the procedure and the content of the law did not comply. As early as February 2013, settlement agreements with 16 churches and religious societies were signed. In these contracts, the Czech Republic undertook to pay a financial compensation for 30 years and to pay a contribution to support activities for 17 years. Again, I recall that these contracts were signed by the former government of Petr Nečas. On the other hand, the Churches and religious societies have undertaken in the treaties that their claims relating to the original assets, which became the subject of property injustice between 25 February 1948 and 1 January 1990 and which are not issued under the 2012 Law, are settled, including those which are not known at the time of the conclusion of this Treaty. The Czech Republic cannot go as a democratic rule of law through unilateral cancellation or amendment of such contracts. A unilateral change by the Government of these contracts would be in manifest conflict with the principles of legal certainty and the predictability of law. I would also like to remind you, because that is what Mr Grebeníček mentioned in his question, that social democracy before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies did not propose that the government denounce this treaty unilaterally. We were aware that this would be contrary to the principles of democratic law and that such a unilateral step of government would not stand before the Constitutional Court. [[State]] What we proposed in our electoral programme was a commitment to negotiate with the churches after the elections and to try to achieve a revision of the amount of the financial compensation that was allocated to the churches. I would like to inform Mr Grebeníček that, following the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, even before the current government coalition was established, social democracy began to deal with the churches. I had several meetings with representatives of the churches where I suggested that we agree to reduce the amount of settlement with the churches so that it would correspond to the budgetary situation of the Czech Republic. So I made this proposal to the churches, but unfortunately, the repeated negotiations did not lead to the churches taking a different view than that they insisted on the treaties signed with the government of Petr Nečas. Unfortunately, other positions of church representatives in those meetings I personally attended have never been declared in recent months. In this situation, when the government must act on the basis of the law and within the limits of the law, the government has focused primarily on ensuring that the extradition of property to churches and religious societies takes place consistently within the limits of Law No. 428/2012. To this end, a government committee was established on my proposal by the Government of the Czech Republic to affect the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies. The Government Committee focuses on the application of the property settlement law to churches, evaluates the procedural course of litigation in matters of property settlement, prepares and reports to the Government every quarter on the course of the issue of property, the actions brought and the course of litigation in these cases. I want to inform that this report, which is presented to the government every quarter, is a public report. This means that it is fully available to the public, including Members of the Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Deputies, or any body of the Chamber of Deputies, at any time, may decide to discuss such a report. And I must say that I have not yet been asked by the House of Deputies, for example, by some of the committees, to discuss this report. I am offering this as an opportunity for a productive dialogue between the Government and the Chamber of Deputies, and I think that one of the committees of the Chamber of Deputies, for example, the Supervisory Committee or the Committee on Budgets, could request that this report be discussed at the level of the committee responsible with the participation of representatives of the Government and the relevant ministries. So every quarter, a report on the course of religious restitution is published and discussed by the government. Following the extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament on 24 July last year, the Government Committee carried out an evaluation of the incentives that were raised at the meeting and the initiatives that were sent to me on the basis of my additional written call to the Presidents of the Members' Clubs. The results of this evaluation were forwarded by the Government Committee in January 2015 to all members of the parliamentary clubs. I therefore wish to refuse that the Government would conceal anything, I wish to refuse that the Government would be hiding in any way from comments from the Chamber of Deputies, because the Government's monitoring committee has dealt with these comments in a proven way and has provided information to the Presidents of the Clubs. At the same time, I want to reiterate and point out that these government monitoring committee reports are public. The next meeting of the Government Monitoring Committee is taking place today in the afternoon at the Office of the Government. In the case referred to above, which was also mentioned in the interpellation, where you refer to the issue of the extradition of property to which churches and religious societies are not entitled, I must say that, also from this point of view, the government, through the monitoring committee, is committed to upholding the law in the issue of property. For the time being, the members of the above-mentioned Government Committee conclude that, according to the available information in the process of issuing movable and immovable property of the State under the applicable law, state authorities are acting strictly under the law, and, of course, if any requirement for more detailed information is available, this more detailed information can be provided on the basis of a quarterly report. Let me now comment specifically on how the process of religious restitution is so far underway. As far as the Ministry of Culture is concerned, the Ministry of Culture does not manage or coordinate the course of extradition under the relevant law, pursuant to § 18 para. However, 11 of the Act are required for each calendar year of the Ministry of Culture to submit accounting data on the assets issued. The data for 2014 were submitted by the end of February 2015. [[10.10 hours]] The data were submitted on a form laying down the implementing decree for the relevant law. The Ministry of Culture published the data submitted for 2014 on its website, where the data for 2013. At the same time, it prepared a summary table with data on the assets issued for 2013 and 2014 and individual forms were submitted to the Czech Statistical Office, which processes them for statistical purposes. Continuous extradition data are then, of course, available to the government monitoring committee. On the issue of the return of movable and immovable property at Prague Castle on this issue, according to information from the Prague Castle Administration, she accepted a total of six applications. According to the information available to the Office of the Government, no assets have yet been issued. As regards the question of financing clergy salaries, I would like to point out here that the financing of clergy salaries was Law No. 428/2012 Sb. from 1. 1. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards The contribution to support activities paid to 17 churches and religious societies cannot be regarded as a new model of financing the clergy' salary. The contribution is intended to help eliminate the consequences of many years of economic dependence of churches and religious societies on the state. For these reasons, the range of beneficiaries of the contribution is also limited so that the contribution does not allow for the creation of other dependent states of churches and religious societies. In 2013 the Ministry of Culture paid annual instalments of CZK 1 959 million to the churches and religious companies and the contribution to the promotion of activities amounting to CZK 1 444 million. In 2014, the Ministry of Culture paid annual instalments of CZK 2 023 million under the 2012 Act and a contribution to support activities of CZK 1 444 million. As for 2015, the Ministry of Culture paid a contribution to support activities of CZK 1 444 million to the churches and religious societies under the 2012 Act. As regards the implementation of the Act at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Land Office and the Forests of the Czech Republic are the main mandatory persons under the 2012 Act due to the number of calls. The State Land Office is also an administrative body which approves the agreements concluded for the issue of agricultural real estate between authorised persons and obliged persons, respectively. issue decisions to issue or not to issue them unless the agreement is concluded. The number of calls is changing because they are still being progressed between obliged persons for incapacity. Changes in the number of calls for beneficiaries are no longer as intense as they were in the autumn of 2014. As far as the State Land Office is concerned, and this is the data from 5 June this year, the State Land Office records the total number of calls as a mandatory person 3 453 calls, representing 68 105 land and 470 buildings. As regards the concluded agreements, the State Land Office as a compulsory person concluded 2 275 extradition agreements 26 648 parcels with an area of over 18 000 hectares and at the same time concluded agreements for the issue of 54 buildings. As regards the approved agreements, 1 837 agreements for 21 551 plots of land of 14 799 hectares and 52 buildings were approved. In the case of administrative proceedings pursuant to Article 9 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 9 (2) of the EC Treaty, If there is no agreement between the obliged person, which is the State Land Office, and an authorised person, the beneficiary may submit an application for administrative proceedings. In this procedure 225 decisions were issued on the issue of 1 707 land and 18 buildings. A 100 decision was also issued not to issue 1 040 parcels of 188 hectares and 7 buildings. The Regional Land Office for the Central Bohemia Region received the most challenges: 538, followed by the Regional Land Office for the South Moravian Region: 387 and the Regional Land Office for the South Bohemia Region, where it was 381 calls. As regards the situation in the Forests of the Czech Republic on 7 June this year - an indication of the total number of challenges. The forests of the Czech Republic record a total of 2 236 calls for the issue of property, which represent 48 840 land and 1 392 buildings. As regards the concluded agreements, 1 616 agreements for the issue of the claimed property in the scope of 16 032 land were concluded with the entitled persons. The immovable property in the agreements concluded is 71 907 hectares and 200 buildings. Agreements approved by the State Land Office. The agreements that have been approved are 1 339, representing 14 000 plots of land of 62 000 hectares and 178 buildings. As far as administrative proceedings are concerned... Now there is still information on state-owned enterprises which are state-owned undertakings of the river basin. Here it is in the gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture on the Moravia basin, the Odry basin, the Vltava basin, the Ohře basin and the Elbe basin. In summary, companies register 676 calls for 2,222 plots of land. Due to the specific situation of the land, such as the original land, is now very often flooded with water from the dam, for example, the land is being issued uniquely. Up to now, the ownership of the beneficiary has only been registered on 8 parcels. In the case of major or major restitution cases rejected, several rejections of major restitution cases occurred during the first half of 2015, by the decision of the relevant regional land offices. It was a rejection of the calls made by the Benedictine Abbey of St. Václav in Broumov, Cisterciac Abbey in Osek and Canonie of Premonstratensians in Teplá, where mandatory persons were State Land Office or Forests of the Czech Republic. So much for my reply to Mr Grebeníček's written interview. I assume that after today's meeting of the Monitoring Committee, another report will be prepared for the meeting of the Government of the Czech Republic, and this report will naturally also be published subsequently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u17	I thank the Minister and note the factual remark of Mr Koníček, then the proper application of Mr Fiedler. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u18	Dear Prime Minister, you can't trust everything your coworkers have prepared for you. On the government website vlada.cz is a section of the Government Committee on the impact of the Property Settlements Act. There is not one quarterly report on the results of the committee's work in this section. According to this website, the committee seems to have ceased to function on December 5, 2014. Six months ago, according to the government's website, this committee hasn't sat down. So you're telling us something here, but we don't have a chance to find out on the government's website.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u19	Thank you and I'll ask for Mr. Fiedler's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u20	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Koníček here just moments ago took a topic away from me because during the performance of Prime Minister Sobotka on the very basis of his reference to the Office of the Government website, when I sent a written interview to which you answered me, Prime Minister, so you always referred me to me in the next post of oral interventions on this website. So on this website at the Office of the Government, where the information under the Government Committee on the impact of the property settlement law with the churches, I would correct my colleague Koníček a little bit, not that there are no minutes from the meeting, there are five entries in these dates: 11 April was the first establishing, 22 April 2014 was the second, the third was 30 May 2015, the fourth was - here I have a mistake - 5. 8th and last were 15th December 2014. In 2015, there is no information on this website, Prime Minister. We have now learned some from you, for which I thank you, but in any case, what you would have promised is not true when we raised an extraordinary meeting on this topic that information will be available once every three months, once quarterly. I cannot agree with this claim. The facts on the government's website are different. Furthermore, I would like to ask what is going on with the amendment to Act No. 428/2002 Coll., now I do not know if I remember this well, House press 144, I am not sure about the number that several Members from social democracy and I have submitted with them because I have been involved in this and actually initiated it. We still have a situation where this applicable law, which you have just referred to in your speech, says that the agreements should have been settled by 30 June 2014. In two weeks, we'll have a year since we break the law. Is it correct, Prime Minister, that this is how the government itself shows how laws do not need to be respected, the deadlines set in them and the deadlines? What should citizens then think about this if, in other cases, they are sanctioned for little things and the government does not respect this? And there's another thing. Recently, a report by the Czech Statistical Office came out, which clearly stated what you had already been opposed to in the previous parliamentary term, you correctly pointed out and argued that the appreciation of the property of the Church - real estate and land - was overvalued, was not applied to the same valuation as in other restitution cases. I think the Czech Statistical Office has made a clear end to this, because it stated it, there is no need to debate it, it was simply stated by the Czech Statistical Office. Will the government continue to accept this contradiction that property appreciation has been somewhat overvalued? I expect that on the website of the Office of the Government, which you have referred to several times and I have referred to it, information will therefore normally be available, and I would like you to answer these questions that I have just said. How will it be here with the property that will be issued, which is issued after 30. 6. and, as we have heard from the information you have just communicated, it will take some time, or if there are any sanctions on the part of the churches for late publication. And the second question is that the obvious contradiction in the valuation of assets, which was confirmed by the Czech Statistical Office, whether this government, now that you are not in opposition, was right at the time criticized, but you are a government party whether you accept or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u21	Thank you and please the next one entered in the debate and this is Mr Grebeníček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister may have moved on in his interpretation, but I think he's proving again that before the 2013 elections, he was either naive or not entirely honest when he lavishly promised to move on with the so-called. Church restitutions. I even feel that his interest today in any corrections or in bringing order to such a delicate matter is almost zero. It doesn't change his complete retrospective, which he presented here a moment ago and which we all know very well. So churches, orders, and religious societies all too often look for property owned by self-governments, which they are not obliged to issue by law. It has also happened several times that a request was made for the physical supply of property, for which the churches are already receiving a generous financial compensation. Because of the church restitutions, even two state organizations are fighting absurdly before the courts - the State Land Office, which decides on the issue, and the Forests of the Czech Republic, which manage the claim land. However, many commentators do not attribute some greed to the restraint of the Forests of the Czech Republic, so that their possible above-standard helpfulness is not once marked as outrageous damage to the state. And Prime Minister Sobotka has either been silent on Parliament's floor yet, or, and I have the feeling of today's performance, yet he's still fogging. I don't even want to believe that he's the head of the government committee overseeing the process of returning property to the churches. He probably took an example from the Lidovecký Minister of Agriculture, which includes the Forests of the Czech Republic and the State Land Office. The recently unbearable one said: I do not sit every week and do not seduce as the process of church restitution continues. Yes, church restitution remains an apple of contention. For example, the Social Democratic Chief of the Constitutional Legal Committee of the House of Jeroným Tejc does not like the fact that the forests of the Czech Republic fall under the Ministry of Agriculture led by Vice-President Marian Jurečka, who has a monopoly on controlling the extradition of property to churches. He also considers it unreasonable that the Forests of the Czech Republic are the only ones in the court who can contradict the decision of the State Land Office to issue or not to issue in administrative proceedings alleged church property. Colleague Tejc even suggests that the Ministry of Finance should also have the possibility of bringing a corrective action to the court. It was said that he was led by a personnel policy at the State Land Office and also suspected that the Ministry led by a representative of KDU-ČSL might not be very interested in bringing actions for which he wishes to extend the two-month period to six months. According to the head of ČSSD Roman Sklenák's club, it is Tejcův's personal initiative, which he informed him about and allegedly supported by Social Democrat MEPs. In January - I stress in January - this year colleague Sklenák even said that Tejcův's proposal should be discussed during the next meeting of the House. [[10.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, what the ČSSD MEPs submitted about a year ago as a non-governmental proposal to extend the time limits for the extradition of property to churches must be considered merely a fig leaf, which is now only to conceal the fact that the government and the coalition led by the Social Democrats refuse to change anything on that bizarre law. The law on property settlement with churches was supposed to prevent church dignitaries from turning to lawsuits against the state, county, municipalities and citizens. By adopting that law, the shameful disputes that we witnessed were to end when Cardinal Miloslav Vlk was impressed with the idea that in the Czech state his church would also condemn the temple of St. Welcome to Prague Castle. But so far, the lawsuits and new and new demands are just multiplying. At the last four meetings The Chamber of Deputies our club proposed to include in the programme item Information of the Government on the procedure of central government bodies in the implementation of the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies. Not once has this proposal been approved. In July 2014, therefore, at the 13th meeting of the House, Prime Minister Sobotka publicly declared that he was ready to speak with such information. At the beginning of this week, the 9th meeting began and the deed ran away again. So I tried to get information, like my two previous speakers, on the website of the Czech Government. It was mainly about the minutes of the government committee's meeting on the effects of the property settlement law with churches and religious societies. Unfortunately, as my colleague Vladimír Koníček informed me in advance, according to the above-mentioned website, this committee, headed by Prime Minister Sobotka, met last December last year. So he didn't do any activity for six months. In doing so, it is to submit to the government on a quarterly basis information on the course of the discussion of church restitutions. If this committee has not sat down for so long, I hope - as the Prime Minister has said - that it may catch up today or tomorrow. I read somewhere that, in a better case, he drew a lot to which church property was valued under alleged restitutions, Béďa Trávníček on a bike of happiness. In case of worse, they say there could be a Holport for something. Otherwise, it cannot be explained that the figures published by the Czech Statistical Office here in May this year are so different from the ones that Mirek Topolánek and Petr Nečas fed us and the legislation. For example, the market price - and I consider it appropriate to remind you - of the fields returned to the churches, according to statistics, is five times lower. The average price per hectare was CZK 7.50 per square metre. However, the church commission of Topolánek's government worked without guaranty with data of CZK 44.40. For forest land, the Czech Statistical Office derived a variable average price between one crown and ten crowns from tax returns. However, the church commission set an average of CZK 27.70. Yes, it is crucial for financial compensation for unissued property. He threw billions at the church's tinged estimate. So I have the impression that instead of a church committee that has already been convened by Topolánkův's ministers, it would now be more like a MP's interrogation comedian. Of course, it seems almost unrealistic. The willingness is neither with the former culprits nor with today's government coalition. The evidence of this is the awkward swivelling of Prime Minister Sobotka, as evidenced by his response to my interpelation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u23	I thank Mr Grebeníčk. Now two factual points. Mr Karel Fiedler's first factual point, then Mr Antonín Seďa, also with a factual point. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u24	Thank you for the floor. I've been looking into the system, I remember it well, it's the House press 144, the novel that's been parked here for a year. From the first reading, at the end of the month, a year will pass when it has not been on the agenda several times. The proposal moved the original deadline by six months until it was due. I myself tabled an amendment that proposed or proposed to postpone the deadline for another 12 months, because I had already assumed that the six months would not be sufficient, and as reality seems to me to be right, I estimated it quite correctly. So I suggested we set a deadline by which it should be decided by the end of this year. I believe, Prime Minister, I'm sorry that your will to address this, virtually. Not to worry, it is about the same as the will of the government coalition and your party to elect the chairman of the D47 Committee of Investigation, which you have also successfully blocked for several months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u25	I thank my colleague Fiedler for his time. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, just a few comments on my colleague Grebeníčk, through you. What he's saying here, our reservations, we lectured here day and night. Anyway, it didn't help, and it turns out we did the right thing. Second thing. The Prime Minister here said what all social democracy has done to correct, say, a bad and not very good law. We turned to the Constitutional Court, there's this amendment to the law. It is a problem that we have not actually discussed this in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. I wanted to say for myself that a year ago, or more than a year ago, I turned to the stolec See, directly to Pope František, in the matter, to watch over the property that the Czech Church receives under the religious restitutions. He promised me, at least with his answer, he'd watch over me. At the same time I asked him to part of the money, respectively. the property was used for what the Catholic Church should actually provide within the Czech society, that is, to engage in both health and social activities. Even this request from Mr. František, Mr. František the Pope, has sort of confirmed, and I think that - [[Resurrection in the Hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u27	Mr. Ambassador, you have made a point of fact. I'm forced to warn you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u28	Yes. Thank you. So it was information that is, that is, it is not true that the Social Democrats would do nothing about the matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u29	Thank you, Mr Seďa. I'm asking who's next for the debate. Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u30	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I must say that there is really no reason for the government to hide anything, and every quarter of a year the government is discussing a report on how church property is being spent. The report is public, that is, there is no problem with any Member of Parliament getting to it. This means a public report that is being discussed. The Government Committee is meeting today on the basis of a proper invitation, it will meet tonight and renegotiate another such report on the issue of property. As for the last meeting of the government committee, the government committee voted on the report per rollam, which means, according to my information, per rollam voted on the report that was prepared. I have not yet received any specific initiative in the context of this interpelation, nor in the course of any further negotiations in the House of Deputies, concerning the extradition of any particular property where it is suspected that the property was not issued in accordance with the law. Naturally, if we were to receive such an incentive, either as a government or as a government monitoring committee, we would look into it and we would want the relevant ministry responsible for the issue of property to examine this matter. So, if there are such incentives, any suggestions from the Chamber of Deputies, the government will do so. But I want to point out one fact, and that's what happened here in this debate. The government is actually being criticized from two directions. On the one hand, we are criticized for the fact that property is being issued rashly without the proper assessment of the matter, and at the same time, the government is being criticised from the other side, by Members of the Dawn, who resent that it is going too slowly. I don't know what the problem is. On the one hand, therefore, we cannot please the Dawn Members because they are going too slowly, on the other hand, KSČM Members believe that this is going too quickly. It's legal. It's by law in a situation where the law has begun to apply. And it wasn't under our rule, and we weren't the ones who voted on the law and prepared the state apparatus for it. It was the government of Petr Nečas that carried out the reform of the land authorities just before the application of church restitution was launched. You all know that under Nečasův' government, there has been reform of these authorities, and part of the reform was that several hundred government experts had left to deal with property and property issues until then. Just when the State Land Office was established, it also meant layoffs, and it meant the departure of a number of qualified people. And I can tell you that after a number of these workers, the private sector, of course, reached out, because they were qualified people who dealt with land improvements, dealt with property matters, and the moment the state got rid of them with the reform under the Nečasův administration, these people mostly ended up in the commercial sector. At the moment the State Land Office was newly established, it was weakened by personnel purges, so it was imposed an obligation under the law on religious restitution. This was the reality of 2013 and 2014. So I'd like us to tell the whole truth here. If we were to talk about what was going on in the state administration, The State Land Office also has some history, the land authorities in our country have some history and there have been changes organized by the government. But it was not the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, it was not the government of Jiří Rusnok, but it was the previous government of Petr Nečas and then the agriculture ministers who were responsible for the reform of the state administration. So I note that the State Land Office was not prepared for the law on religious restitution, and I also note that the timetable proposed in this law did not correspond absolutely to the reality and possibilities of the state administration. But we have already said that at the time when the law was being discussed here, and we have pointed out to the right-wing officials that this law and the time limits, as proposed, do not allow the administration to properly examine, discuss and decide these matters in time. Turns out we were right. So the terms are not respected, but the state acts in such a way as to comply with the deadlines as far as possible, but for objective reasons, this is not possible yet with the huge idea of applications. However, the assessment process continues over time. So these are the things that I want to mention and remind you of even now in the debate that we are having. Otherwise, I must say that there is indeed a report on the course of the issue of assets under the property settlement law for the first quarter of 2015, which has been passed through the government's proceedings, that is a publicly available document, and it is possible to get acquainted with this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister. I have two factual points and a colleague of Koníček with a proper application. Now, then, Mr Karel Fiedler, with a factual remark, then Mr Pavel Kováčik, also with a factual remark. Oh, okay, so colleague Fiedler's gonna turn himself in properly. In that case, Mr Pavel Kováčik, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u32	Thank you. I wish you a good day to all who have the patience to stay in this room and listen to a debate that is very serious and is one of the central themes of recent years. Two details for the Prime Minister's performance. The first is - I will start from the back - the question of the functionality or malfunction of the State Land Office. You really need to say the whole information. And the addition is that when, despite our opposition, the Act on the State Land Office was passed, we tried at least - and I admit that we felt very lonely, we as a club KSČM - at least postpone the effectiveness of this law by a year precisely so that the State Land Office, which was really waiting for that huge log of tasks associated with the so-called. With church restitution, he was prepared for it. What the Prime Minister said about the personnel purges, virtually. about the dismissal of experts, that is true, and it was necessary to revitalize the whole system in some way, or I would say resuscitate. The second point. Prime Minister, it is a good thing the report is public. Technical problems that are linked to its publication on the web may be eliminated and may only be technical, but I would still like to say that we will require that it not only be published on the web or in the press, radio, television, but that it be published, discussed and discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies. We have committed ourselves to constant interest in this matter, we have promised it here in public by my mouth, and we will insist on fulfilling this promise only so that in time we will be able to include the opinion spectrum that is here in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u33	Mr President, your time is up. Thank you. Now with a proper application by Mr Vladimír Koníček, then a proper application by Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u34	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you have called for a specific example. I live in Boršice and Velehrad is next door. In Velehrad since the last century there has been a Support Association of Priests of the Archbishop of Olomouc. This was a society of citizens of the surrounding area, and the association was neither for the support of the Church in the field of social or school, nor for any other, which lists the law, it was a society for the support of pilgrims. Now the Archbishopship of Olomouc has signed up as a successor organization and argues that it has successor paper. But what paper? In 1995 the Archbishopship of Olomouc Ministry of Culture asked to declare the successor organization of this association the Archbishopship of Olomouc. And do you know what that request was based on? By a sworn statement that they are the successor organization. So in 1995 no one examined whether they were the very organization supporting education, culture, social affairs, and simply the ministry sent a request in three days - on the 27th - November 30, 1995 the Ministry will confirm that they are the successor organization. That's how the government works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u35	I thank Mr Vladimír Koníček. Now, with proper application, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would react immediately to Mr. Koníček's words. When I started dealing with this a year ago, or actually for a long time now, that time is flying, so I got information, or I got documents where more assets were included in that law only on the basis of an honest statement. This is not the only case, but the succession was created on the basis of more honest statements. And now I'd like to respond to what the Prime Minister said a moment ago. Prime Minister, don't be mad at me, Mr President, of course, but you didn't give true information here, but you even contradicted yourself in your speech. You said at one point that everything was published, implemented in accordance with the wording of the law, and then you said that the term was not fulfilled, that it was exceeded. You're contradicting yourself. I would like to refute your claim that Members of the Úsvit movement are pressuring it to issue as quickly as possible. That's nonsense, what you said here. We are saying that we want to postpone the deadline for extradition so that all these cases can be assessed without haste, without time distress, without errors. I don't know where you got that nonsense that we're pushing the speed of extradition. Don't be mad at me, Prime Minister. About the deadline. I designed that term to be extended by the end of the year. Let's see if it's ever gonna get hit. But it's basically pointless, because you, as a party to a government coalition, aren't kind of pushing it to do anything about it. Today we know that we're against the wording of the law that the deadline expired almost a year ago, and I didn't get an answer from you. As usual, I did not receive an answer from you as to whether the opinion of the Czech Statistical Office, which clearly says so, and also the colleagues from the KSČM MP, says that a number of the assets are overvalued, as you rightly criticised in the last parliamentary term. So I am asking you again, once again, whether you intend to accept this, or whether it is very simply that we can begin to deal with this, that House press number 144 will finally get on the agenda of the House's second reading meeting and we will eventually be able to say something to it, explain, eventually accept amendments of such a nature as to address the fact that, not intentionally, but simply by mistake, it should not have been issued. I am talking about mistakes, errors, which is not addressed in the original law, so one of my amendments deals with this. There's no way we're pushing the speed of extradition. I repeat, it's not true. And I expect you to answer those two fundamental things - I will repeat: what you will do with the exceeded deadline and what you will do according to the data of the Czech Statistical Office with the overvalued property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u37	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate. If no one applies to the debate, I am asking Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, as proposed by the resolution on this matter, in this interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u38	Before I speak of the resolution, one comment. Like my colleague Karel Fiedler, he opposed a certain statement made by the Prime Minister, so do I. So if his group is supposedly trying to quickly issue property to the churches, he's leaning back and explaining things, then I have to turn back and say that we never said it was done too quickly. This is what social democracy has come up with, and we have an initiative in the agenda for today's meeting led by our colleague Tejc. So, of course, I would like to accept this primacy, but it really belongs to social democracy and I am curious how this initiative is finally being dealt with here in the House. In view of what Prime Minister Sobotka has said here in this debate, I regret to have to give a dissenting opinion and you will vote on where the matter will go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u39	I thank Mr Grebeníčk. I'm gonna check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. On the proposal to disagree with the Prime Minister's reply to Miroslav Grebeníček's written interview on Law No. 428/2012 Sb. we will decide in the vote number 75. That's what I started, and I'm asking who's in favour of disagreeing. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 75 of the 102 Members present for 30, against 63. The motion was not accepted. That concludes the 486 press interpelation. We have three minutes before us when we can still discuss written interpelations, and I will therefore begin the interview of Mr Rostislav Vyzula, who intersected the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek, who responded to the interpelation on compulsory school attendance of foreigners. Colleague Vyzula was not satisfied with him. Madam Secretary Valachová is not here. I ask, Mr. Ambassador, if you're suggesting her abort, and given that we probably wouldn't have made it, even if the Minister were here, I'm asking your opinion on how you're going to take it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u40	Hello. Thank you, Mr President. Yes, since - and I understand this clearly - the Minister is not here, he is coming to the office today, and, on the one hand, he cannot be familiar with the interpellation, so I would like to ask the House of Honor to interrupt until the next interpelatory day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u41	Okay. On this matter, we will interrupt negotiations on this interpelation by voting. I think there's a logical reason for the new secretary to be able to get acquainted with your intervention, with the answer of her predecessor. I therefore ask who is in favour of interrupting this interview in the 76 vote that I have begun. Who's in favour of interrupting this interpelation. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 76 of the present 108 for 92, against 1. Interpelation has been interrupted and will be dealt with on the next day of the hearing on Thursday, when this point for the interpelations that have been rejected will be re-placed. I will not use that one minute to open another interview, but, on the contrary, I will use it to read the apology received from the Chamber of Deputies that came to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. [[11.00 hours]] He apologizes for the reasons of work of Mrs Marta Semelová, Mr Stanislav Huml, without giving a reason. For working reasons, Mr. Jiří Zemánek. Member Jiří Mihola from 9.30 pm for working reasons. Mr Karel Černý, who apologizes for today and for tomorrow. Within 11 hours for family reasons, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Mr Ivan Gabal from the morning meeting without giving any reason. And Minister Robert Pelikán apologizes for this morning's meeting. This added the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. And since it's 11 o'clock, I'm interrupting point 170 by next Thursday by 9 o'clock. And before we continue with the approved agenda, the President of the ODS and Vice-President of the ANO shall be entitled with priority rights. Mr President, if this concerns the agenda of the meeting, I would also like to ask whether it relates directly, not to any procedural matter, but to the agenda of the meeting, so allow me to quote the introductory issues as originally agreed. [[Stanjuro]] [[Yes.]] I think it'll be more appropriate. Can we make a deal? Thank you. We should focus firmly on points 95, 98, 100, 102, 91, 93, 103, 90, 104 and 108 and at any time during the discussion of these points we should interrupt for point 172, which is the Information Minister for Health Svatopluk Němeček to treat multiple sclerosis. If we used up these points within 13 hours, including paragraph 172, we would deal with the items from the second block and the first reading according to the approved agenda. We'll discuss paragraph 171 this afternoon, which is oral questioning. That is, then, what is probably the most important of all to make clear the state of discussion. Now, on the agenda, the first President. prosit, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u42	Vice-President, hello. Before I propose a change of schedule, I'd just like you to correct your information on the microphone. You said next Thursday that he was suspended, but you meant for sure on July 9th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u43	Yes, not next Thursday, but, of course, on Thursday of the second week of the meeting, that means July 9th. I'm sorry. Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u44	I know we had an understanding, but to make it quite accurate. I have a proposal to change the agenda for our meeting. I propose today to include item number 18, the proposal of Members of Jan Farský and others, as the first item, it is the Register of Treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u45	First point, okay? Pre-schedule, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u46	Tonight's the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u47	Yeah, first point now, right at 11:00. Thank you. The other is Vice-President of the ANO Club, Mr Schwarz. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u48	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I won't hold up. I have the same proposal. I see it works by supporting the President's proposal to the ODS Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u49	Okay, thank you. Mr Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u50	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal for a change in the programme, which was not originally planned for this meeting. And that's because I'm worried, and I'm not sure that an immigrant meeting will be approved tonight at 18 o'clock. So I would like to propose a change to the program now. Not directly to the immigrants, but to a much more important problem, even to remain the Czech Republic in the European Union. [[Resurrection and laughter in the hall.]] I think it's time we started discussing these alternatives. I have prepared a motion for a resolution and...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u51	Calm down, please! The Chamber of Deputies is discussing the agenda of the meeting, and if anyone would like to comment on the proposals of individual colleagues, then sign in, I will give you the floor. We have half an hour, among other things, under the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Let me make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic considers the problem of illegal immigration a fundamental threat to the security of the Czech Republic. It is the policy and the functioning of the European Union that is responsible for this situation. The Chamber of Deputies, aware of its responsibility to the citizens of the Czech Republic, calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare a law on referendums, where citizens of the Czech Republic will be able to comment on the continuation of our country in the European Union." That concludes this resolution. Not us, but citizens of the Czech Republic. Allow me, I have five minutes to justify this, allow me to justify this resolution very briefly. A few months ago, you were laughing and joking about kebab. Just as you laughed a moment ago when I proposed this resolution. Across the political spectrum of Tomio Okamura, he was dragged by your media, and my former colleagues in Dawn began washing their hands over the radical Okamura and running a coup. You've lost your laughter today. [[A protest whistle from the Dawn Members' benches.]] Illegal migration is a serious problem and requires major action. It's time for action. The policy and functioning of the European Union are responsible for illegal migration. It's a proven fact. The countries of the European Union participated in an armed destabilization action in the Mediterranean. This destabilization has heightened the problem. These are the institutions of the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Commission who support the solution to illegal immigration at the expense of the Member States. They're the ones who caused the problem, and we're supposed to pay for it now. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] The European Union supports the long-term multicultural concept of Europe. This concept is dangerous -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u53	I will interrupt you once more, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask my colleagues for peace of mind. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to move your discussions into the lobby if you have a subject other than that of today's meeting. That includes the Minister. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u54	Thank you, Mr President. The European Union supports the long-term multicultural concept of Europe. This concept is a dangerous ideological vision that encourages the peoples of Europe to resign for their own future. It is a fake project of a single euro nation, where immigration is supposed to be a melting boiler in which the peoples of Europe disappear. The problem of illegal migration is a logical and legal part of a system for building a superstate called the European Union. It's not a system crash, it's an accompanying phenomenon of his construction. Our citizens have every right to oppose this plan. They should feel the support of our Members and, of course, the governments. That is why we must act and discuss the solution to the substance of the matter. Citizens must be given the opportunity to choose their future on fair terms. They were deceived in the referendum on accession to the European Union. This is what the European Union is really bringing us today, which none of them wanted. You forced the Treaty of Lisbon on them and did not ask them. It is fair now to give citizens the opportunity to vote because they now know what future they are preparing for in Brussels. The solution to illegal immigration means ending membership of the European Union's superstate project. Only citizens' will is legitimate in this case. Support for the resolution tabled on the referendum The House is the first step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to justify the proposal. Now with priority rights, President Bohuslav Sobotka, then on the agenda of the meeting, Mr Vácha. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u56	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I really only want there to be no doubt. Of course, I'm ready to be here in the Chamber of Deputies at 6:00. I respect that an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies has been convened on a subject which is very serious throughout Europe. It is not only a matter of the Czech Republic, it is a matter of the situation of the whole of Europe and its immediate surroundings. I am ready to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on this situation. So I expect to be here to provide the Chamber of Deputies with the relevant information. And then it is only up to the Chamber of Deputies whether they approve an emergency meeting programme in this situation or not approve an emergency meeting programme. This is more a question of whether all Members or only Members who have priority rights will be able to participate in this subsequent debate. But that is a matter for the Chamber of Deputies to decide. In any case, information from the government's point of view will be heard here at 6:00 p.m. I have also asked the Minister of the Interior, and I have also asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs to comment on this matter as soon as I have spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u57	I thank Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Now on the agenda of the meeting, Mr Vácha. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to request the exclusion of a point, the House Press 480 from the agenda of this meeting, the long-term intention of education and development of the education system of the Czech Republic, on the ground that this press has not yet been discussed by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and is on the agenda for the next meeting of this committee. So I'd like you to remove this item from the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u59	Which press is it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u60	House print 480. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u61	480, okay. Point 157, print 480. Thank you. Anyone else? Before we proceed to any changes to the approved programme, I would like to inform you that yesterday the Organising Committee discussed the proposals of the Chamber of Deputies for granting or granting state honours which were delivered to you as House document 2529. In this context, I propose to include this House document in the programme of the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the report block, proposals and more. We would vote on this if no one blocked new points - well, if no one, we would vote on individual proposals. As the first one, we will be voting on putting points in front of them, as I read them, item No. 18, that's the Contract Register. We will decide in the 77th vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 77 of 138 present for 124, against 2. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the proposal made by Mr Radim Fiala, which is to address the resolution that proposes a referendum on the Czech Republic's continued existence in the European Union, namely on the motion for a referendum, not on the law. We will decide in the 78th vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 78 of 139 present for 11, against 96. The motion was not accepted, we will not have it as a point of this meeting. We will now address the elimination of paragraph 157, print 480, as submitted by Mr Vácha. We will decide in voting 79, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of eliminating this point. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 79 of 139 present for 122, against 1. The proposal was adopted and paragraph 157 was essentially eliminated until discussion in the Committee on Education, Youth and Sports. We will now address the inclusion of a new item, a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies to lend or award state honours that will be recommended to the President of the Republic, House document 2529. I've begun the vote on order number 80. Who's up for this new point? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 80 of 139 present for 112, against 5. The motion was accepted and the state honours will be dealt with in a time that... Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u62	Colleagues and colleagues, in vote number 78, I voted no, I'm in favour of high school. Just for the tape screen, I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-001-170.u63	Yes, Mr Novotný will have his record corrected. Anyone here? Nobody. So we can look at the points of the program as we have now changed it. So I'm launching item number 18 under the amended agenda. That's what it is.
