ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and Act No. 311/2006 Coll., on fuel and petrol stations and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended /German press 417/ - first reading I remind you that we are at first reading, and I would ask the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš to take up his seat at the rapporteur's table, because he will present the proposal under the authority of the Government. At the same time, I ask Mr Miroslav Kalousek, who is the rapporteur of the press, to take the position at the rapporteur's table. Now, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act and the Fuel Act. The submitted material contains two main topics, namely taxation and restrictions on the treatment of raw tobacco and the adjustment of the bonding of fuel distributors. The first issue of the proposed bill is the solution to the issue of tax evasion related to raw tobacco. The scheme in question can be divided into two coherent areas. Firstly, in view of the increasing incidence of raw tobacco fraud, it is proposed to introduce excise duty on raw tobacco. This is a completely new tax introduced in the tax territory of the Czech Republic. This tax is not harmonised by a directive of the European Union. The rate of raw tobacco tax is linked to the amount of tobacco tax for smoking, on the grounds that raw tobacco is largely used for its illegal production, according to analyses. The second area of treatment is the monitoring of the treatment of raw tobacco and the determination of obligations on persons storing raw tobacco intended for purposes other than the manufacture of tobacco products. The introduction of this measure at national level should limit and make transparent the penetration of raw tobacco on the Czech market. The type of area is the amendment of the Fuel Act. This adjustment is a response to the Constitutional Court's finding of last year, which abolished the original uniform amount of the bonding of fuel distributors. It was argued by the Constitutional Court that the uniform amount of bail was not sufficiently taken into account by the specifics of small fuel distributors. [[15.20 hours]] The aim of this adjustment is to establish, in a constitutionally conformal manner, the level of bonding of fuel distributors, while maintaining the purpose and function of this measure. Therefore, in addition to the standard bail of CZK 20 million, it is proposed to introduce the possibility of a reduction in the bond at the request of the fuel distributor, subject to the conditions laid down in advance. The reduced bail will be granted in the amount of CZK 10 million. This proposed legislation primarily aims at smaller fuel distributors, who have been active in this market for a long time, are stable and are not potentially risky with regard to possible tax evasion. The effectiveness of the proposed draft law is proposed on 1 July 2015, with the exception of the provision for which it is proposed, for legislative technical reasons, to take effect on 30 June 2015. I therefore advise that, within the framework of the debate, the deadline for discussing this amendment will be reduced to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u3	I thank the Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u4	Thank you for the floor and good afternoon, honourable Members. Let me briefly introduce you to the fact that these are actually two separate laws, i.e. the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act and the amendment to the Fuel Act. In the case of an amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, it is quite rare - I do not want to say quite unique, but rather thin - in the world and in the European Union the taxation of raw tobacco. This means that the application of taxation will only be applied in the tax territory of the Czech Republic, raw tobacco will have to be otherwise defined, persons who store raw tobacco will have to register with the Customs Administration, they will be subject to the obligation of deposit of CZK 20 million with the possibility of a reduction at administrative discretion. Probably, I suppose the petitioner assumes, and we will have to specify this in the next negotiation, how this administrative reasoning will look and who will be able to ask for it and who will be allowed to narrow down the corruption area. The petitioner assumes restrictions on tax evasion. From the countries where it was introduced, as the petitioner inspired in the case of electronic records of sales in Croatia, so in this case he was inspired in Romania, in addition to Romania it is introduced also in Slovakia and Poland. In the tax administration, progress brings to us a fresh eastern wind. [[Laugh of Members from the right side of the hall]] . The proposed legislation goes beyond the tobacco directive, it is basically an exception and, as such, it will have to be notified by the European Union, until the date of notification this law cannot be valid. The second amendment, which has nothing to do with the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act - here we have a draft excise tax law, but the second amendment, which is part of this press, has nothing to do with excise duty, not even with the Ministry of Finance, except for the customs administration performances it has there, because it is the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, is an amendment to the Act on Fuels, where the petitioner is - and for me it is a mystery why it is the Ministry of Finance, when it is the Ministry of Industry and Trade - where the petitioner is trying to deal in a constitutionally conformal manner with the finding of the Constitutional Court that issued its finding concerning 20 million bail. The petitioner therefore regulates to comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling, the Fuel Act, by maintaining bail of CZK 20 million, but gives fuel distributors the opportunity to request a reduction of bail to 10 million provided that they comply with four conditions, namely registration, active distribution - under the term active distribution means distribution of at least 300,000 litres per quarter - economic stability and reliability of the person exercising a significant influence on the management of the fuel distributor, while, if the four conditions are met, distributors are entitled to reduced bail. Here it is appropriate to commend the petitioner that it basically forms clear rules and claim part in case the conditions are met. This means space for free discretion there is minimal, and this, of course, narrows down the possible corruption risk in decision making. So much for the contents of these two amendments to the law. As rapporteur of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to ask the petitioner a few questions and clarify some of the data that I believe the Chamber of Deputies is entitled to have them so that they can continue to make responsible decisions. Firstly, it is my elusive logic of the petitioner and a combination of amendments to the laws, especially considering that we have not only press 417 at this meeting, where we have two amendments under the name excise duty - an amendment to excise duty and an amendment to the Act on Fuels, but also the press 418 where we have, world, wonder, the amendment to excise duty as if one was not enough, and in addition we have an amendment to the Act on Air Protection. In the case of the press 417, which is called the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, the petitioner is the Minister of Finance, who is competently responsible for the tax issue, but who is no longer entitled to the amendment to the Fuel Act. It belongs to the Minister of Industry and Trade and is a mystery to me, and perhaps the Minister will explain to us why the Fuel Act is a crystalline, many times the Constitutional Court criticized by the sticker on the Consumer Tax Act. It's just a sticker. We can put this in the excise law exactly the same way as the Hunting Act, these are two separate laws, neither the competence of the competent central authorities of the state administration, nor legislation. The only correlation that could possibly be derived there is that the Customs Administration has its executive powers in both laws. But, after all, it has also been in the Transport Act, and the Transport Act has never been an addition to excise duty. In the case of the 418 print - I apologize for referring to it now that we are not discussing it, but it is part of it - the logic is even more incomprehensible. That's where the government proposes to amend the excise duty again. So for two meetings - for one meeting he gives us two separate amendments to the excise tax, to which the Air Protection Act, for which the Minister of the Environment is responsible, is added as an adhesive, so as not to be mistaken, the Minister of Agriculture presents it. I admit I don't remember this in all my years of parliamentary practice. Once again, 417 presents the Minister of Finance with its excise duty, but has a second law of the Minister of Industry, which does not appear here in any way as a co-president. In 418 this concerns the competence of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Environment, as it happens, both former managers of Agrofert, and it is presented by the Minister of Agriculture. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, in particular, if this is a new style. If we're ever gonna see the Minister of Culture submit the Funeral Law so we don't get out of practice. I really don't understand, and I think you would The Chamber of Deputies deserved an explanation of this logic, in my view the logic of incomprehensible, in no way related to the law of competence, and rather than logic, I would like to call it chaos. [[15.30 hours]] The second question - that is, the first question is the logic of the petitioner, the second question I would like to ask as rapporteur of the Chamber of Deputies to the petitioner is the question of his potential conflict of interest. If we look at the government meeting programme where the two amendments to excise duty have been discussed - I stress that they have been discussed separately, as two separate points, and even more strikingly, the point 417, which we are discussing now, at least the Minister of Finance is presenting to the Chamber of Deputies. But that point 418 will be remembered, the Minister of Finance has submitted it to the government, but the Minister of Agriculture has already presented it to the Chamber of Deputies. But on both of these points, the Minister of Finance abstained, as stated in the Government's minutes, because of a potential conflict of interest. And here, as rapporteur, I would like to ask the petitioner to justify why, in the case of press 417, he declares a potential conflict of interest. In the case of the 418, these are biofuels, we are all aware of that. That's a clean tunnel from the state budget for Agrofert. That's where we know. But in the case of printing 417, I really do not know whether the petitioner is the owner of a raw tobacco packer or a distributor of fuel. This information is not known. And if the Minister of Finance has publicly declared a conflict of interest, I think that the Chamber of Deputies would deserve to be explained where he sees this conflict of interest himself, because perhaps you will wonder at me, I cannot see it anywhere with my eyesight. But apparently, some circumstances are kept a secret from me. Therefore, I politely ask the petitioner to explain to us where he has the declared conflict of interest in the case of this press. And if he's declared a conflict of interest, he's got some personal benefit, and I don't think any of us know where. But he has to know when he says there's a conflict of interest. The content of the press itself. I have to say, I have rarely seen as sloppy, poorly, and beyond any RIA processing methodology, processed material like this. That level is beyond any criticism. The Ministry of Finance used to be an elite of central government bodies. This material is below the level of the Ministry of Regional Development and it has always been the most terrible materials. I allow you to read a relatively key paragraph of the RIA assessment, where the petitioner actually tells us, the Chamber of Deputies, what are the implications of this bill. So I quote the petitioners: The concrete quantification of the impact on the state budget is very difficult, because it is a preventive measure - gentlemen, forgive me if somewhere else - and it is not possible to accurately predict the potential amount and volume of tax evasion that will not arise as a result of the newly adopted legislation. [[to ministers who are speaking quite loudly in the government bench behind the speaker]] The calculation of the current level of tax fraud in this area may be highly inaccurate, since the control under current legislation does not reveal all cases of fraud and thus the estimated amount of tax evasion may be distorted. The additional costs of the introduced regulation cannot also be estimated as it is not possible to determine how many entities will be registered in the case of the introduction of a register of persons storing raw tobacco. Ladies and gentlemen, can anyone tell me from this definition from the RIA assessment what the impact will be? Apparently, the promoter doesn't know, and he's telling us he can't say. That the only thing we can say is that we don't know anything about the effects of this novel. The petitioner honestly admits that he does not know anything about them, that he is unable to quantify, that all he knows is that he needs to recruit six new people to serve for CZK 3 1/2 million a year, and that Andrej Babiš has some personal benefit because he has reported a conflict of interest. That is all we know about the effects of this bill. That's all we know. With the fact that we may be able to hope, along with the petitioner, that it will actually prevent tax evasion, but he doesn't know what it is. That's what he's admitting in the study. What if it's less than the three and a half million that cost those officials who have to be recruited? Does the petitioner really believe that the Chamber of Deputies can, on the basis of such a RIA study, make a responsible decision on a relatively large administrative burden of paperwork, forms and bonds? I have nothing against it in principle. I am aware that raw tobacco processors often use raw tobacco for purposes other than those intended to mix with fermented tobacco and smoke and do so. I know from my practice that this is happening especially in the Moravian-Silesian region, for example. Don't let the Silesians and the North Moravians get mad at me. But does the petitioner really despise the Chamber of Deputies to such an extent that we are not worth trying to make at least an elementary quantification, at least to follow the basic principles and guidelines for assessing the effects of RIA regulation? I don't remember any material from the Ministry of Finance completely ignoring the general principles of the handling of the effects of RIA regulation over the last few years. This material ignores them. This material is dilettant at the level of the second primary secondary auxiliary school. On this occasion, I would like to make publicly available to the Minister of Finance the guidelines for assessing the impact of RIA regulation in force since December 2011 and ask him to instruct those new experts he has recruited at the Ministry of Finance on these principles. Because we haven't had a weird material like this in a long time. Minister, please. [[Weak applause.]] What is further worth remembering is the fact that the government here presents measures against tax evasion as its main priority, and I agree with that to a certain extent. Both amendments are trying to aim against tax evasion, which is what the government puts as its fundamental priority. But please, let's remember it well. Let us remember well that the government here requires increased administrative costs and increased victims from taxpayers in the name of combating tax evasion as their top priority. Let us remember this well when we discuss the 418 press, because there the petitioner proposes measures which he himself acknowledges are leading to tax evasion, and he is sacrificing it for completely different priorities, which are, in particular, income for Agrofert. But we won't remember that until we print 418. Not always and not for everyone's benefit, the government has as its top priority tax evasion. In this case, it declares it so, but let's remember it for more prints. And that is probably all I can say about this press as the rapporteur of the House. On behalf of the House, ask the Minister to explain some of the uncertainties in particular regarding the person of the petitioner, his personal conflict of interest. Ask him why he did not consider it necessary to respect the general principles of RIA regulation processing. Why does he feel that it is not necessary to inform us about the real effects of this bill. In a detailed debate, this is only being announced, and now I do not want to abuse it as rapporteur, I will propose a proposal for recasting, where the processor will be brought into line and, secondly, the principles of RIA will be respected. [[15.40 hours]] If this proposal is not adopted, as conditional, alternative, I will put forward a proposal for an interruption until the date of notification to the European Commission, because both of these bills, both for excise duties and air amendments, will have to be notified by the European Commission. Well, what if he doesn't identify them? Roughly on the spot to interrupt them. But much more would the Chamber of Deputies deserve it if the petitioner had redesigned this proposal at least to a standard professional level. We don't want to be above average, Mr. Secretary. We're not maximalists. But we deserve to be mediocre. This is under any criticism!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have the priority right of Mr Stanjura. I saw Mr Kalousek's application for a general debate and then a colleague, Mr Fiedler. Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u6	Thank you for the floor. I am glad that the Prime Minister has come because the first circle of problems I want to deal with is legislative or constitutional. Let us remember the year 2014, when we were here at the same time discussing two House prints that changed the Consumer Tax Act. It was House printing 208 - that was a change in the tax on mineral oils, that is, from diesel and petrol, and the House printing 215 - green oil. In spite of opposition, it went quite smoothly here, and we sent both laws to the Senate. The President of the Senate, an important member of social democracy, has become upset and says that the Senate as an institution protects the purity of the legislative process and will never allow the parallel negotiation of two amendments to this law, respectively. Any law. Then the senators put one content - I think the green oil - glued or added to the mineral oil tax change, or vice versa, it's no longer important. We've already asked that question. The Prime Minister and members of the government, government MPs, appeared here. They said it's perfectly fine, the Senate's procedure is perfectly understandable, legitimate and correct. At that time, the House prints differed by at least seven numbers. And look, this year we have two press changes - the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, the House Press 417 and 418. When I think about how the government will react, whether the Senate will be equally principled and again, no matter how the discussion of these two prints ends, the Senate will produce one bill, so I ask when we are supposedly in a hurry, why this risk of returning the law not from content, but from legislative or constitutional problems the government is undergoing. In principle, the only reason I could think of in the press 418 is that the entire ANO club wants to abstain from being biased and therefore does not want to jeopardise the adoption of the two amendments, which are in the Houses of the Press 417 and 418. Not that only the President stays, but I expect, as usual, 100% agreement with the President, so that all members of the parliamentary movement will abstain. That's the only possible logical explanation. However, I fear that this will come upon the disgust of the Senate, which has been so strongly elected by the President of the Senate, in the meantime, that there will certainly be continuity, which is clearly stated in the letter that we all have, that simply the Senate as an institution will not allow such legislative confusion that two amendments. And we both have them on the show tonight. Maybe we can't make the other one today, maybe we can. But I suppose the course of first, second and third reading will go hand in hand. That is the first question and it is the question of the Prime Minister. As President of Social Democracy, he will certainly tell us what an important member of social democracy, the President of the Senate, will say in this regard. And now for the content of this press. A few months ago, I tried to get my colleague Fiedler and I to be fair, he's signed up right after me, he's gonna talk about the same thing in the last novel. I remember discussing this law in Mladá Boleslav at an exit meeting of the Budget Committee, where Deputy Secretary Hornochová simply refused that there was no problem. By the way, Prime Minister, it's the deputy who said in Lidovky last week that she doesn't understand that you don't understand tax revenue, that you, as former finance minister, should know why this year doesn't go down the way it was expected that she didn't understand it at all, that you of all people are asking this in public. When I used a demonstration aid here and I brought you all the tobacco I was showing you, look at the steven of what the finance minister told me, the promoter of today's material: It's a marketing problem. There's no such thing. Vote against. There's no such thing. And after four months or five, the Minister of Finance comes up with a principled fight against tax evasion and essentially proposes the same thing. Not a word about what they said here last summer in July, in August, the minister or his deputy, that it's a marketing problem, that there's no such thing as the opposition making up. Tax evasion, if I'm not mistaken, is CZK 500 million in the first nine months of 2014. If this number is real, then by not approving it from 1 January, you caused damage in the budget of the Czech Republic of between 250 and 350 million crowns in the first half at least. Not a word in the explanatory report, not in the minister's speech, to say sorry, I was wrong, the opposition was right. You won't find anything like that in there. There are exactly the same arguments that we've been saying: cutting machines right in stores, going around doing tax evasion. By the way, there's one near the Treasury Department, that's what I said here last summer. And nothing happened. And all of you, dear colleagues and colleagues from the government coalition, voted against the proposal. Today is the same proposal, and I believe you will vote in favour. And we're gonna vote for it, too, because it was a good suggestion. I just expected someone to admit that he was wrong or that he didn't have that much information or something. I'm sure the members of the Committee will remember the heated debate, as the Deputy Minister said: "No, that's not true, don't touch it. We were talking the same thing about the course that he's gonna have to touch the cigarette tax again for the course. No, you're wrong. And he's gonna touch it again, and we were right again. We already have two novels. As a member of the Committee on Budgets, a few days ago, I e-mailed the other members of the Committee on Budgets another amendment to the Consumer Tax Act. And then the minister says, "I am the most diligent minister, I have the most laws." Well, that's true, if you submit three instead of one law. Maybe the Senate will make one out of it, so the statistics will go down again. What I'm saying here is that the problem exists, that it's good that the government and the Treasury want to solve it. We can talk about parameters, because it seems to me that 20 million bail is quite high. And the Treasury is describing exactly how smart those who commit tax evasion are, even though the Minister here was saying how customs are going to eliminate all this and that it's not a problem to deal with legislatively. So what did they do? They have three kilos of tobacco at the plant, as the explanatory report says, so the fine threatens in thousands of crowns. The moment they sell three kilograms, they bring in another three kilograms, and the Customs Administration is basically powerless. We could have had this resolved from January 1st, if you would sometimes think about what the opposition is saying and what it is proposing. It wasn't sulking, it was supplementing this law. You guys turned it down like a marketing problem. How did it come about? He wasn't there last September? Well, it was, because according to the explanatory memorandum for the first nine months of 2014 tax evasion, 495 million estimates. Of course, that's not exactly what anybody's counting. But it's not a negligible amount. That's the second question, this time for the translator. What happened to change his mind? And I say it's a good thing he changed his mind, but we could have saved it. A colleague of the Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets is smiling at me. Well, he was also opposed as a disciplined member, wasn't he, because the minister said so and he didn't hear the arguments. I'm bohužel so. And today, he's gonna go for it, 'cause the opposition's saying the same thing, but the government's saying the same thing. It's a little childish. Then we're being blackmailed: we're in a hurry. We have to discuss this today, tomorrow. We need to cut time. Don't be silly. We have to hurry. This could have been the case from 1 January 2015. I would ask the Prime Minister for an answer as to how the Senate will behave, whether he has knowledge or what he will recommend to the senators and the chief of the Senate. Whether he has the assurance that the Senate will discuss two separate prints or have the ambition to combine it into one. Why are they taking the risk of two prints when the senators made that decision last year? And for the Minister, what led them to change their mind. And I say that's good. [[15.50 hours]] The other part. I think it's a reaction to the Constitutional Court's finding. Once again, we can only discuss parameters and possible minor adjustments, but again, I say for us that this is a good thing in terms of content. With the lack of RIA, well, if it was the only case, maybe you could be generous. But in the declared rigour of the Minister of Finance, how everything works under it super and completely without mistakes, and as the new Vice-Presidents of the YES movement say, as a supernatural being, he can do much more than the rest of us normal natural beings, so don't be surprised that this seems inadequate to us. Let's remember the inspection reports. Nobody knows what they're gonna look like today, but the Treasury officials estimated last year that it would take 3.47 hours for one tax entity a month. And to this day, despite the end of the first quarter, none of the taxpayers knows what the control reports will look like, in what format. So how do you estimate how many hours it's gonna take to fill and prepare? Well, very hardly. Maybe three hours, maybe two hours, maybe 20 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u7	Thank you to Mr. President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjur. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will merely follow up on the words of my previous speaker, Mr Stanjura. I'm gonna mention what he's been talking about, maybe I'll elaborate a little. He's said a lot of things for me. But he touched the excise duty on tobacco leaves. Indeed, it is true that this amendment has been discussed here, as was rightly said, at the exit meeting in Mladá Boleslav, where the Deputy Minister, even here in the Committee on Budgets, has refuted that it is unfounded that there is no need to deal with anything. Well, government MPs were disciplined to reject it. Today, the Treasury is essentially presenting the same thing. Maybe with a slightly different number. The number of the House document 1066 is the number of my amendment, which I filed last year, which allowed us to have some 250 miles in the state budget for the period that the law did not pay. Probably extra. I'm guessing. I am therefore based on data on the iToday blog, which certainly states the right things, where the words of Jitka Danielová from the Directorate-General of Customs, with whom I discussed this matter last summer in the middle of the year, before I tabled the amendment. I have verified these arguments, which I have reached, from Mrs Danielová of the Directorate-General for Customs. She confirmed them to me last year. Obviously, the Minister doesn't care what I'm saying. [[He's looking at Minister Babiš at the newsstand.]] Mrs. Danielová confirmed it to me last year, the facts you have in your explanatory statement today. And you didn't come forward. You rejected this amendment as unfounded. When I look at what he says, the estimated leak is 475 million, about a quarter of a billion in six months. Since I think this black tobacco business is progressing, maybe it's more than that, but let's not speculate. I'm going to go back to what I said here during the discussion of the last point. Poor businessmen will be stifled by registers, reports, many of them are happy to survive and that they are not at the office and do not burden the state budget. So we're gonna bully them, but here we're just sending a quarter of a billion dollars to the wind that we could have had in the state budget. And Mr. Finance Minister, who likes to shave as he holds the state register, I wonder if he'll admit his ministry's obvious mistake. It was very funny for me when I was with Deputy Secretary Hornochová - I wouldn't mention her, but since the name of Stanjura has already fallen, I'll mention it. When I met with the Deputy Minister here in the lobby of this hall sometime in December and she told me that the amendment that I tabled was presented by a colleague of Stanjura's that she didn't understand him at the time, I thought he was probably joking. Because there's no other way to understand it than that it's a farce. If all laws are prepared so well and so professionally on the basis of facts known to the Directorate-General of Customs, which is subordinate to the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Finance will reject it, and in six months it will identify with that, then God bless us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u9	I thank Mr Fiedler and now, in the debate, the rapporteur, Miroslav Kalousek, as he announced in his report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have announced the motion for this bill. I therefore submit a motion to return the petitioner for revision. The footnote is to be understood for the revision, with particular emphasis on the effects of RIA regulation. But I'm saying this no longer as content, simply as a return to recasting. I'm just stressing what's supposed to be reworked. The RIA regulation is to be redesigned to comply with the general principles. Because what we have received is a mockery and contempt for the Chamber of Deputies. The second proposal is an alternative. If the Chamber of Deputies did not accept this proposal, then I am putting forward a proposal to interrupt this item until the end of the notification process of both amendments, which means amendments to the Consumer Tax Act and amendments to the Fuel Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u11	Thank you. I will vote on this after the general debate. This is an alternative, which means that the procedure envisaged by Section 63 will be maintained, so there will be a return first and then a possible interruption. I'm asking if anyone else is applying for the debate. It's not like that. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Mr. plaintiff, Mr. Secretary, are you interested in the final word? Yes, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the comments. First of all, Mr. Exminister Kalousek to conflict of interest. I'm not really an importer or a manufacturer of raw tobacco, I'm a cured smoker. So I'm already dealing with this conflict of interest that we're still dealing with here, so I'm reporting it preliminarily everywhere. So I think that we have a conflict of interest, we have a law, I follow the law, and it is true that the Parliamentary Press 418, it is an amendment on excise taxes, which belongs to the Ministry of Finance, but it was submitted to the government by the Minister of Agriculture Jurečka, because our commitments to the European Union from the point of view of biofuels are within his competence. If that's the case, of course we've inherited it, and we probably haven't had time to arrange it yet. Why are we presenting tobacco and fuel here? Propulsion, I think Mr. Stanjura said it was logical. And all I can say about tobacco is that it's not true that I don't see the opposition's views. On the contrary, I perceived them and had such signals that it needed to be changed, and I had several meetings with the Customs Directorate General and within the Ministry of Finance, and I was assured that it was okay. [[16.00 hours]] So now backwards, yes, I have to say, there's been a mistake. I admit it. However, the one who does nothing does not make mistakes. The Treasury has changed its mind, and I can't see a thing about it. On the other hand, the Treasury is doing something after a long time to collect the taxes. And please don't talk about register offices anymore. There are no registers. I'm doing my best to collect the taxes. I've taken over financial management in decay. We had to file criminal charges on most of Mr Kalousek's former subordinates because we followed the law. And if it's all wrong here, then the same officials as Minister Kalousek did in June 2013, so I don't know. And why is the Treasury presenting this? Well, because it also presented for Minister Kalousek, so nothing has changed there. It's 98 percent of the same officials, it's the same competence, it's the same procedure. I really don't understand the questions. So about that much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u13	Thank you. Now, if the rapporteur is interested in the final word? Yes, it is. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u14	Thank you. Minister, I want to thank you for trying to answer the rapporteur's questions, but I must say that they are not true. [[The laughter of some Members]] That they're inaccurate. First of all, you haven't answered the logic of the petitioners at all. You said that Minister Jurečka submitted this to the government - the press 418. But that's not true. I have a record of the government's negotiations - when I received a law after a year and a half, I was really prepared carefully - so I have a record of the government's meeting of 23 February 2015, where it is written in this press that the government discussed the material submitted to the first Vice-President of the Government for the economy and the Minister of Finance - that is certainly not Jurečka - and adopted a resolution stating that the first Vice-President of the Government abstained in the vote on the adoption of the proposed resolution because of a possible conflict of interest. The same text is in print 418 and 417. You brought the biofuels, too. Only then did you and Jurečka agree to present it to Jurečka so that you could tell them that they could all be human beings and not you. But we'll save that for printing 418. Now we're at the 417 press where you reported a potential conflict of interest, and I'm saying again that I don't know where she is, and that the Chamber of Deputies deserves you to tell her. Because, if you don't mind, a conflict of interest is not a journalistic term. It's defined by law. It is defined by the Act on Conflict of Interest § 8 para. 1. It says that a conflict of interest is not needed to be reported in the case of a benefit or interest generally obvious, in other words, if someone announces that he has a conflict of interest if it is in his personal interest. You called it in. You said I have a personal benefit from this bill. That's what you put on the government record. If the government isn't for fun. That is why I ask whether the Chamber of Deputies would not deserve you to tell her where you have the personal benefit in this law. Because in the case of the 418 press, we know. There the government proposes to send you a proposal from Minister Jurečka to send 4 billion. CZK from public budgets. That's where we all know it. In case of printing 417, we don't know. Perhaps you could be worth telling us where your private benefit was when you reported it. Or did you report him even if you don't have him? Then should we take all your statements in exactly the same way? That you just say something and it doesn't work? What is it, then? I think the Chamber of Deputies would deserve this answer. The second thing is the logic of the translator. I'm answering - Minister Kalousek did not present the Fuel Act. That's what Minister Kuba put forward! Of course, Minister Kalousek cooperated on this because the Minister of Finance was in charge of customs, but we all remember that Minister Kuba presented it here and Minister Kuba defended it too. And I'm asking, where's Mládek? I don't mind if he's not here, but where is he in the material? [[with a smile]] Nowhere. And why is one excise duty presented by the Minister of Finance and the other excise duty presented by the Minister of Agriculture? And why are you making a law that doesn't belong to you? You didn't answer that here. And the third point I dare to make is the quality of those officials' work. Yes, many of those officials worked there before. But for the Sobotka, for Rusnok, for Janota, for Kalousek, it was customary that when the minister got this dusty material on the table, he threw it at the clerks - if he could drive. [[shows]] While you presented it in the crazy version in which the Chamber of Deputies is forced to read it. And we who know what RIA is must take that as an insult to our own intelligence. That's why the motion to re-work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u15	Thank you. At the time of the final words, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka asked with priority for his speech. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u16	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to supplement the speech by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. There's really no mystery in this. Let me just describe how both prints were discussed at the government meeting. First of all, both amendments to the Consumer Tax Act were submitted by the Ministry of Finance. There is no other procedure under the competence law or legislative rules. Thus, two standards were submitted which were processed and submitted by the Ministry of Finance. In terms of presentation, I would like to distinguish two things. One thing is to submit an amendment to the government, and the other is to introduce the amendment at the government's meeting. Every time the Ministry presents a bill, the Minister at the same time justifies the bill. At the request of the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, which concerned biofuels, since the Minister of Finance had previously announced a conflict of interest in this area, asked the Minister of Agriculture Jurečka to state this law at the Government's meeting. This means, the law stated, commented and settled comments at the government's meeting not the Minister of Finance but the Minister of Agriculture. That's the matter of bringing laws into government and bringing laws into government proceedings. I would also like to say that in the original two drafts, as they were submitted to the Government Legislative Council, the issue of biofuels was originally addressed in both of these amendments to the Consumer Tax Act. On the basis of the recommendation of the Legislative Council of the Government then, in the final phase, the government agreed with the agreement of the petitioner to merge the issue of biofuels into the second standard, i.e. that the first proposal that we are discussing here today, which addresses the issue of tobacco and fuel, does not address the issue of biofuels, and this issue has been completely merged into the second standard. At the time when the Minister of Finance announced a conflict of interest in the government, this naturally has not yet happened, because it was at the beginning of the discussion of this point, and the Minister of Finance, in accordance with the law, announced that he had a conflict of interest in this issue, and then announced it also on the second draft law. Because at the moment he announced it, the issue of biofuels was divided into both of these standards. So, as I am well aware of the government's conduct, on the basis of the recommendations of government legislation, the issue has been divided, and at the moment, there is no reason for the Minister of Finance to declare a conflict of interest in the standard relating to fuel and tobacco, and it takes the reason that concerns the second amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, which we will be discussing on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. That is why, at the beginning of this amendment, the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Prime Minister announced a conflict of interest at the government meeting. Only then did the legislative change take place after the discussion in the government, and this is already part of the proposal, as it was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. [[16.10 hours]] I am based on what I remember from the government's negotiations in order to respond to the debate that has taken place here. Naturally, I will verify this matter from the point of view of government legislation and provide information, probably to the chairman of the budget committee, where the bill will be discussed, so as to describe exactly how the government's process took place. So if I sum it up, I don't think there's any confusion here, I think the procedure from the Deputy Prime Minister and the Finance Minister is understandable. In včas, he announced a conflict of interest at the Government's meeting in accordance with the law, and I understand that he did not want to mention material to the Government where he had previously announced the existence of a conflict of interest, and for this reason he asked the Minister of Agriculture to justify the proposal for the Government's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u17	Thank you. Yes, I see the applications because the Prime Minister's speech reopened the debate that I had previously closed. We will first deal with factual points: Mr Volný Member, Mr Petr Fiala, then with the rapporteur's priority right. Mr Volný does not report, in which case the factual remark made by Mr Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u18	Thank you. The Prime Minister here said he thought the procedure was logical. I was trying to understand him, but he doesn't seem logical to me. Am I to understand, Prime Minister, that the Minister of Finance has prepared with his Ministry an amendment to the Biofuel Act in which he is in conflict of interest? The amendment clearly concerns the advantages that the company or the company that he owns, brought it to the state where it suits him, when it is as the Minister of Finance wanted it to be, then sat down on the government, said "I have a conflict of interest" and the Minister of Agriculture presented it for him? Am I getting this right? And you're telling us that it's okay, that this is the solution to the conflict of interest and that that's how it's supposed to be. After all, this is a completely absurd situation that is seriously damaging political culture in this country! I ask you, Prime Minister, to do something about it. Not that it's okay, and let's see what happened to the government, but he was dealing with the real nature of the conflict of interest. And the point is that the Finance Minister prepares a law that suits him, suits his business, and then alibistically asks a colleague to present it to the government for him. It's not normal!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u19	I thank Mr Fial for his time. Now with the priority right of the rapporteur, Mr Kalousek, then President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u20	Thank you. On the contrary, I understood the Prime Minister very well, thank you for the explanation, and I really do not understand, Mr Fiala, through Mr President, what you do not understand. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I mean, we run the state as a company now! We've said that many times. And if I put it in a business situation, we old Democrats may have a problem with that, but if I just transfer it to the business world, it's known that not everything in the Volkswagen Group is doing Wolfsburg. Seat's doing something, Seat's doing škodovka. Not everything at Agrofert is done by Agrofert's parent company. Lovochemie's doing something, Deza's doing something, church sausages are doing something. Not everything has to be done by Babiš himself, something Jurečka will do for him. [[Laughs in the hall.]] We run the state like a company! And I think we've all understood that explanation, which makes it worse. Let's save that for the 418. I would like to state, at point 417, that it is professionally processed below any level! Under any level deserved by the Chamber of Deputies to be presented as government material by the central government. And in the interests of the personal dignity of each and every one of you colleagues, I would like to recommend that you really return it to the process. Let them learn to work there! They're just talking about it so far!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u21	Thank you. Now priority right in the debate, reopened, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u22	I asked the Prime Minister in my first speech. Of course, he didn't answer my question. He answered the questions put by the rapporteur to the Minister of Finance and answered the Prime Minister. Well, quite odd. I'll wait for him to listen to me, 'cause then there's no point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u23	I'd like the sněmovna to rest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u24	I would ask the Prime Minister either to tell me that he doesn't want to answer the question I asked him, i.e. What the Senate will do to us if we send him two amendments to one law when he was so principled last time. Now I've learned that another prominent member of social democracy has recommended cutting it from one law to two. Then you have some confusion in social democracy. One significant member says "that's unconstitutional, it has to be in one," and another significant member says "let's divide it into two." Then I have a request to the President of the Budget Committee through the Managing Committee. I firmly hope that Minister Jurečka and officials of the Ministry of Agriculture will go to print 418. Otherwise, it's crazy. I really don't want to see the Ministry of Finance's budget committee on the 418 press when the Minister of Agriculture presents it. And it's not because the Minister of Finance is in Brussels today, so he's gonna read the opening words that all the officials make for all the ministers, whatever government rules. Is this how you imagine, Prime Minister, that the Deputys and Heads of Union from the Department of Agriculture will defend and explain the 418 press? Well, I do, after the government decided apparently on the recommendation of Minister Jiří Dienstbier. Otherwise, there's no logic. And I believe that my fellow Members and fellow Members of the Budget Committee will support me and that we will not allow such a madhouse to be brought to the House by the press and officials from another ministry to defend it. Then there's no logic. So, Prime Minister, I beg the Minister Jurečka to come to this point 418. I am very skeptical, I have already whispered it to my colleagues from KDU-ČSL, it is very risky to entrust him with the presentation of some press to the Chamber of Deputies. But perhaps it is some hidden interest that biofuels will not pass so quickly, and we will certainly support that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u25	I have two factual points to calm the situation, but I'd rather read an apology to calm the situation. Mr Čihák apologizes from 17 o'clock for reasons of work and Mrs Jana Hnyková from 18 to 19 o'clock for reasons of work. A factual remark by the rapporteur, then by the President of the Committee on Budgets. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u26	I am afraid, Mr Stanjur, through the President, that your request that Minister Jurečka submit this will not be accepted. He said it to the government - the Minister of Finance did it, the Minister of Agriculture stated it because the Minister of Finance declared a conflict of interest, but even Minister Jurečka could not mention it before the Chamber of Deputies because he is growing rape. So there's probably nothing left for the government to say to the Secretary of Defense, if any. to get it as his ticket to the government, Minister Pelikán. Someone like that will have to do it, after all, the four billion will somehow get to Agrofert from the state budget. That's even in the coalition contract.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u27	Thank you for keeping time. With a factual remark, the chairman of the budget committee Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I have been asked by my honourable colleague Stanjura, so I will also answer him, not to whisper it in his desk. The 24-year-old is the Ministry of Finance, so it's logical that he'll also be presenting a representative of the Ministry of Finance. However, of course, nothing prevents me from inviting a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture. And if you have a huge wish for me to invite the Minister directly, I have no problem inviting him to oblige you. So I'm doing this, too, and I'm going to oblige you, of course, and I'm going to invite him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u29	I thank Mr Votav for his warning. Mr Stanjura's point of fact. I hope he doesn't want to invite the Minister of the Environment, who is a favorite proponent of bills. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u30	Definitely not. I'm really confused. The Prime Minister of the ČSSD told us that the law will be submitted by the Minister of Agriculture, the Chairman of the Committee of the ČSSD tells us that the petitioner is the Ministry of Finance. I don't think the Ministry's giving us anything, but the ministers, or the government. I don't know who, but the Treasury isn't a petitioner. The Prime Minister said that the Minister of Agriculture will present this to the Chamber of Deputies, according to my information, so far the Ministry of Finance is not in charge. I really don't. We can still look into it, I don't know, talk about it at the coalition board, but it's weird. I'm just saying don't make fun of us. If it's going to be defended by the Ministry of Finance, it's going to be presented by the Minister of Finance. Before the vote, he says he's staying because he's in conflict of interest, that's logical. That's what the law thinks. The whole thing was prepared by his office, defended by his office, and here the Minister of Agriculture will appear before us. Does that seem normal to you? Not to me. This is not a special wish that I would like to chase ministers who have nothing to do with this issue at the Committee on Budgets. I want to invite the minister and his officials who, according to the Prime Minister's statement, present it to the Chamber of Deputies and who advocated it to the government. At least that's what the Prime Minister said a moment ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u31	Thank you. If there is no further application, I am once again closing the debate. I know you see this as very unnecessary, but I repeat again what I said at the outset, that under the Government's authority, the proposal will be presented by the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. So in the Government's resolution, the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will present this in the Chamber of Deputies. This has also happened in the Chamber of Deputies. So it's not a formal matter. It is a matter which, of course, results from the way in which the government presents its proposals to the constitutional body to which it is responsible. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final words again. Mr. Secretary? It's not. Neither does the rapporteur. Therefore, allow me to continue in accordance with Article 90 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 7, since the rapporteur has announced two proposals, that is to say, the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, which he has pursuant to Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) that is, the interruption to the notification, we will vote as a possible proposal, because that is how the rapporteur made it subject to it. I think it's a logical procedure. Nobody objects. Before that, I'll sign off all those who are interested in voting. I'll ask them to re-enlist with their I.D. cards. We will vote in the vote on order number 27, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 27 of the present 150 for 69, against 65. The motion was not accepted. Now the second procedural proposal - pursuant to § 63 para. 1 interruption, not fixed but tied to the date of notification by the European Commission. I've started the vote on order number 28 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 28 of 155 Members present for 74, against 68. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee under the amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? The rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u32	I'm one of those guys who doesn't like two guarantee committees in the long run. But when the government has confused it so much that it has put two unrelated bills into one press and, in addition to excise duty, as that point is called, there is also an amendment to the Fuel Act, which is not competent to the Minister of Finance or to the Committee on Budgets, so I also suggest ordering the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u33	There can only be one guarantee committee. Of course, we will decide on the counter-proposal first, which means ordering it as a guarantee committee to the economic committee. We will decide in the vote the order number 29, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of the guarantee committee being an economic committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 29 of the present 158 for 69, against 70. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the guarantee committee under the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies applicable from 1. This year's 3rd Committee has become a budget committee. I've started a 30-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 30 from the present 158 for 154, against no one. This is where we agreed. The guarantee committee is therefore a budget committee. Who suggests that the proposal be dealt with by a committee other than a guarantee committee? I take it that the rapporteur has proposed an economic committee, or we must put it to a vote on the commandment, not as a guarantee, but as another committee. We will decide in the vote order number 31. I ask who is in favour of the bill to be discussed by the Economic Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 31 of the 158 present for 86, against 55. The Economic Committee will deal with this press from the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. I did not receive any other proposal or see it. The time limits for the hearing remained in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. I thank the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, thank you to the rapporteur and finish point No. 21. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-03-11-ps2013-026-02-015-021.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the point.
