ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 58/1995 Coll., on insurance and financing of exports with state aid and on supplementing Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and Act No. 21/1992 Coll., on Banks, as amended / House print 352 - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the draft amendment to the Act on Insurance and Financing of Export with State Support. Draft amendment of Act No. 58/1995 Coll. is presented in accordance with Government Resolution 744 of 10 October 2012 on the basis of the audit conclusion of the Supreme Audit Office of Audit Action 11/11 Money provided by the Czech Export Bank from the State Budget and the management of this company with the funds for which the State guarantees the exercise of state shareholder rights in the Czech Export Bank. The audit conclusions show the need for consistent control of the Czech Export Bank by the Ministry of Finance, both from the position of provider of annual subsidies from the state budget and from the position of decisive shareholder in the control of the activities of the Czech Export Bank and in the granting of loans. The main changes that are the subject of the draft amendment to the Export Insurance and Financing Act with State aid increase the transparency of the products provided by the supported financing and the Ministry of Finance will allow effective control of the grant from the state budget. To this end, the draft law provides for the issue of information relating to loans granted under supported export financing. For the purpose of controlling the grant from the State budget, it is proposed that bank secrecy be broken down for the purposes of controlling the supported financing provided by the Export Bank. The effectiveness of the amendment to the Act on Insurance and Financing of Export with State Aid is proposed on 1 June 2015. Finally, I would like to ask you to discuss the draft law in the committees and to approve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance and now I would like to ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. However, the Member is not present and there is a proposal for Mr Kalousek to become rapporteur for first reading. If there is an objection to this procedure? No, I will therefore vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. I am opening the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur from Mr Stanjura to Mr Kalousek. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 21, 139 Members are registered, for 123, against 3. The motion was accepted. Thank you and I will ask the rapporteur to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u4	Thank you for your word, thank you for your confidence. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to try to represent Mr Stanjura. The draft is a logical response from the Ministry of Finance to the audit conclusion on the effectiveness of using subsidies from the state budget for the Czech Export Bank. Some concepts are being clarified there, which I think is without any policy for the good. A problem which, in my view, deserves a deep discussion is point 5, which basically breaks banking secrets. In the case of the Czech Export Bank, it breaks the banking secret of course in the area where subsidies are made from the state budget. I think that here, although I completely understand the petitioner, it is one way to deal with the control conclusion of the apparently lack of control over the efficiency of the use of State fiscal resources provided to a special bank. However, in my opinion here - the opinion I wanted to present in the debate - let me present it here as a rapporteur - it will deserve a rather deep discussion of what we actually want. We want a bank, or we want an agency. According to current legislation, the Czech Export Bank is a bank. This means that it is obliged to comply with the Bank Act, its regulator is the banking regulator, i.e. the central bank, the Czech National Bank, which has access to all information from the regulator's position, so logically there is banking secrecy and nobody else but the company's authorities and the regulator does not have access to that information. The Ministry of Finance proposes that the Czech Export Bank, even if it remains a bank and continues to abide by the Bank Act, should the State Fiscal grant be breached against the Ministry of Finance banking secrecy. One of the most important rules for the credibility of the financial system and capital markets in this case, although - I repeat again - for understandable reasons, it is one of the ways that will be broken. I ask the rhetorical question, should we not resign to the fact that it is a bank? Whether we should not consider a deeper systemic change that has already been discussed many times, and it has never happened that it will not be The Export Bank, but that it will be the Czech Export Agency, established by the government, then controlled and regulated by the government, probably both ministries, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Trade, and there will be nothing that frightens me in its name, that is breaking banking secrets, because then the government has free entry into its agency. These instruments of support for export policies are addressed in the Euro-Atlantic world in a much larger number of agencies than banks. I'm not saying it's wrong to have a bank. But if we decide that we want to continue to have the Czech Export Bank as a bank, I will never decide to break bank secrets, even in this exceptional case. All I'm saying is that however I understand the Ministry of Finance's proposal, I think that if the Ministry of Finance wants to have the information that it claims in the draft, and we want to give it to it and it has its logic, it should probably have it, so it should not be a bank and we should turn the Czech Export Bank into a Czech Export Agency, then the Czech Central Bank would not be its regulator, but it would be the Ministry of Finance and then it would be systemically fine. [[15.10 hours]] So, as rapporteur, I would like to recommend that we release this draft to second reading, and at second reading, especially to the Committee on Budgets, and maybe I will allow myself to make a timid call to the Constitutional Legal Committee, without suggesting to the commandment whether it would not want to deal with this on its own initiative for a while and discuss this issue of banking secrecy in the case of the bank at second reading, the great logic of why the Ministry of Finance should have that information, and if there is no other way that the Ministry of Finance should have that information than to break the banking secret as I believe the holy rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. If no one checks in... [[This is the Minister.]] Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, for the Ministry of Finance, can say that the Czech Export Bank is indeed a problem for us. In the past, operations were probably approved, which probably should not have been approved. I have been calling on the bank from the beginning to come up with a new strategy for financing Czech exports, because the system that is today, that our exporter, and I do not know, for example, whether the Slovak minihuť is Czech exports, where we have a problem for 4.5 billion. Definitely not. Not even apartments in Tunis. My main problem was that the exporter would export it, and the loan is actually given to his client, and he's liable to de facto only 2.5 percent. I think it's definitely a great tool especially for an exporter. Of course, we want to support exports, but it should also probably be balanced. And in the Czech Export Bank, we are very worried about the inheritance that is left and that we are dealing with, and new surprises are still coming. I'm sure I'm ready to discuss it, more or less agree that we should talk about an agency and that it should probably not be like a bank as usual with banks. Of course, there is also the question of the members of the Supervisory Board, their responsibility, to what extent a member of the Supervisory Board may actually require information. And, of course, it's also a question of EGAP that guarantees it. So I'm ready to focus on it and discuss how to change it so that it's adequate to what the bank is actually doing, what position it's in and in the relationship with our budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u7	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Now, the rapporteur with priority rights, after whom the Minister with priority rights. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u8	If we kept pushing each other around, it would still be quiet. I thank the Minister for his kindness. I would just like to point out once again that I should be understood, Minister. It may be surprising, but I'm not with you here. I agree that the Czech Export Bank has a number of very problematic assets from the past. I say this very euphemistically when I say very problematic. I even agree with it and it bothered me that I did not have the information, that the Ministry of Finance, which provides the Czech Export Bank with State Fiscal funds, then does not have relevant information about the risks to which the public funds are exposed. I also agree that the information should be provided. I'm just asking a rhetorical question here, if it doesn't exist, and in my opinion, there is a more systemic path than breaking banking secrets, in the simple fact that the bank will stop being a bank and become an agency, it will do exactly the same tasks, but its regulator will no longer be a bank, but the government. And the government will have a perfect overview of its money that it will provide to its agency. It's not a model that needs to be invented. It's a model that exists in many countries. I'm not offering it as the only way. I just ask that we really discuss this closely at second reading, because breaking banking secrets is simply a nonsystemic step and can also be seen as a dangerous precedent. What's done once can be done a second, a third, a fourth time. And then even in cases that aren't as justified as this one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u9	I thank the rapporteur. Now with priority rights, Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to say one thing. The problem with CEB is big. Of course there are some loans from the past that should never have been provided. This bank and EGAP must solve problems from the past. At the same time, I would like to say as a minister representing a resort that supports foreign trade - I am in principle in favour of keeping it like a bank. So far, there's been no agreement that it shouldn't be a bank. And if we take this step towards the Agency, it is irreversible because in 2004 before or before the accession of the European Union, we negotiated with the European Commission on the fate of the Consolidation Bank, Export Bank and the Czech Republic. The result of the negotiations was that We were forced to turn the consolidation bank into an agency, gradually liquidate it, and it was negotiated that there would be two state banks, or almost state banks, where one supports exports under OECD rules and the other, ČMRZB, supports small and medium-sized enterprises and infrastructure. We have a deal. If we download the CEB into the form of an agency, it is an irreversible process which I believe would be undesirable, and I firmly hope that we will not work towards that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u11	Thank you, Minister Mládek. Furthermore, with priority rights, the Minister of Finance. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u12	Thank you. I'm gonna go with the bank secret. The problem is, of course, if there is a check or there are questions from the supervisory board members, then of course it depends on whether the bank official provides them with true information or refuses to provide information. I think most of us know that the police intervened in the past, that former employees are being prosecuted there, that there was probably some kind of criminal activity, and that we lost a lot of money there. That's why I think it's better to break bank secrets at this point because we're in a very different position than classical banking secrets, because if we de facto guarantee 97.5 percent of the export, I think the state must have the authority to verify that information. And in the past, the information was probably rejected or not true, and that is why we have a really huge problem, which is now estimated at tens of billions of crowns. So I think it's something else, this bank secret, other than those classic banks that we're used to banking secrets. In this regard, I think there should be an exception to this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u13	Thank you, Minister. Now, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u14	I don't want to drag this out anymore because I think it deserves to be discussed in the second reading. But after all, a very brief response to both previous speakers. Yes, I agree again with what Minister Babiš said. The state must, in my opinion, see into it. Then the question is whether it should be a bank. And here I envy Minister Mládek for his very clear opinion. I dare say, even for the alternative I'm presenting, I'm not exactly 100% clear. I am just saying that both variants have advantages and disadvantages and that we should discuss them very carefully and consider them because if the agency system with the same mission works successfully in a number of countries of the European Union, I do not see why it could not work in the Czech Republic. Just because we once negotiated this with the European Union does not mean that we have to hold it as a bank until the end of the world. And a very small technical remark. Today it is no longer almost a state entity, today it is 100% a state entity, because the shares in the Czech Republic, private shares that some private banks had there, we bought out as a state precisely so that it could serve as a paying agency of funds from the European Union. And that must be 100% state, there can be no private shares.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u15	I thank the rapporteur, Kalousek. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? Mr. Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u16	Thank you. I'm proposing constitutional law. By the way, it was also heard in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-21-ps2013-025-02-009-021.u17	Mr Laudát proposes a constitutional committee. Mr. Velebný checked in? With the same proposal, yes. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? It's not like that. We will take the vote. First of all, who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 22, 161 Members and Members are registered, for 146, against none. The motion was accepted. Another proposal was the proposal by Mr Laudát to order this proposal to the constitutionally legal committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 23, 163 Members and Members are registered, for 145, against 1. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budget and Constitutional Law, and I am ending the first reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
