ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and some other laws / House print 445/ - second reading The Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will state, under the authority of the Government, the draft bill submitted. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention at your meeting the Government's proposal for a law amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and some other laws. The proposed proposal represents, in particular, the implementation of the directive on alternative solutions to consumer disputes and creates conditions for adapting the regulation on consumer disputes online. It also responds to the European Commission's warning on the lack of implementation of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive against consumers in the internal market. Last but not least, it also contains legislation that responds to the practical application experience of the Czech Trade Inspection with existing legislation. The draft law was ordered for discussion in three committees, namely the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee, agricultural and constitutional law. The Economic Committee discussed the draft law presented at its meeting on 24 June and adopted four amendments to it. Their content is both a refinement of regulation in the field of use of telephone lines with a price higher than usual in the communication of the seller with the consumer, and it is also proposed to insert the definition of consumer competition in the draft law. The Economic Committee also proposes to extend the range of information to be included by the entrepreneur in the notification of the organised sales event. Another amendment is to be inserted into the draft law by a comprehensive adaptation of the consumer's information database on bonus and credibility. The Agricultural Committee discussed the draft law at its meeting on 3 June and recommended it to the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve it. The Constitutional Committee discussed the draft law submitted on 2 September and adopted two amendments to it. Their content is, on the one hand, the tightening of the conditions for the sale of goods and services within organised events and the extension of the circle of persons who will be able to act as out-of-court consumer dispute resolution bodies. I agree with all these amendments, but I would just like to point out that, if the amendment of the Economic Committee referred to in Article 1 in paragraph 5 of the resolution is adopted, legislative technical adjustments should be adopted to ensure compliance of the terminology used with the terminology of the amended law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to release the bill until the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u3	I thank the Minister and note that we have ordered the proposal at first reading to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee and the Agricultural Committee. The Committees resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 445/1 to 5. First, I will ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, and that is Mr Václav Snopek, if I understand this correctly, because Mrs Matušovská is not here. Where appropriate, if the Chairman of the Economic Committee communicates who has been designated as rapporteur by the Economic Committee. kolega Snopek. Please. In that case, I ask him to report on the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Then I'll ask my colleague Chvojka and my colleague Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u4	Mr President, colleagues, the Economic Committee dealt with the law at its 23rd meeting on 24 June. After hearing the news reports, he adopted a resolution: He advised the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve House Press No. 445 as amended by the adopted amendments, which are available to you as House Press No. 445/3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I would now ask the rapporteur of Mr Jan Chvojka's constitutional committee to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, respectively. almost tonight. On 2 September at its 37th meeting of this parliamentary term, the Constitutional Committee dealt with the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act and, following the comments of the Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade, Mgr Karel Novotný, rapporteur for JUDr. Jan Chvojka and the Constitutional Committee after the debate First, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal. Secondly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt amendments and additions to this bill - which you can each see on your tables and are part of the resolution, reading it would be quite long. Thirdly, it notes that the financial and material security of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority is not sufficient in view of the amount of the envisaged agenda. Fourth, he asks the Government to provide sufficient material and financial support for the Czech Trade Inspection. Fifth - mandatory points - instructs the President of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; Sixth - empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of this draft law; seventh - empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. I would also like to join from this point, to join the general debate, to mention some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u7	Thank you. I am registering your application for a debate, Mr rapporteur. And I will now ask the rapporteur of Mr Petr Bendl's agricultural committee if he would present a news report. I do not see Mr Bendl as rapporteur. I don't even see the chairman of the agricultural committee. I see the President of the Committee on Agriculture to tell us who will give us a report on the discussion of the Consumer Protection Act on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture. Colleague Free for the Agricultural Committee? [[There is a large group of Members in front of the rhetoric, some of them gestured differently to Mr President.]] I don't think that's gonna work, 'cause I think... I have no doubt that Mr Volný could have been present at the agricultural committee's meeting, but he was probably not the rapporteur. My colleague Bendl isn't here. So if the President will replace the rapporteur. Please. A colleague of Kudela's will take over. All right. For the Agricultural Committee, Mr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the 19th meeting on 3 June, the Agricultural Committee discussed the Government's proposal under House press 445 and recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic the Government's draft law amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and some other laws to approve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u9	Thank you. So we've been through the news. I am opening a general debate in which I have signed up for Mr Tejc first, but because the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee has declared himself to be the rapporteur, he has priority. I will ask Mr Chvojka to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like, in general, a short time on the bill as a whole. I'm glad we have this proposal here. I think it's an alternative or out-of-court solution to the dispute that the law, virtually. an amendment to the law introduces, it's a very good thing. I don't think the proposal is political in quotes. It's a matter for the citizens of this state. I think this thing is good. Therefore, I hope there should be no problem approving the law. So I'll just be a short while. The basis of the proposal is that the consumer dispute will no longer have to be dealt with if you have a complaint problem. This is an example: You will buy shoes and in a week you will get a shark on them, and if you do adjourn shoes and you go to a trader and he doesn't recognize it for some reason, so you won't have to go to court right away, but you will have the opportunity under this law, if he passes, and I believe you will, first of all, turn to the Czech Trade Inspection, which in some way will have the power to deal with and enter into negotiations with the trader, of course also with you, it will be at your request, and reach some agreement, some agreement over, of course, to resolve the dispute optimally as best for consumers, or even for the company, for a trader who has sold the service or product or provided it. I think it's a very good thing. On the other hand, I'm afraid, and I've already talked about it on the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I've suggested it, or virtually. I mentioned whether, first of all, a minimum amount should be proposed if he would like to turn to the CHOI so that there would not be any abuse, that everyone would turn to the CHOI there, even if the problem was merely pointless looking at the eye. I understood the argument that a fee, even if it were a minimum of CZK 50, 100, 200, would probably not be quite right for those who have a consumer problem with a thing that cost CZK 500. I understand that if someone bought a thing for 500 crowns and should pay a fee of 200 crowns, even if it would have to be refundable, for the CHOI to deal with it, it probably wouldn't have been quite right, completely correct. I think that when this thing goes through the law, when it gets between our citizens, and now it doesn't matter if the media, television, newspapers, radio, this option, when people just know it's an option, it means they won't have to, if they're not happy with their complaint, turn to the court, but there will be a COI that will help the problem free of charge, or should help somehow solve it, so everyone, everyone, of course, anyone who has a problem like that, will first turn to the COI. That's perfectly natural. And so would I. Like I said about the fee, it won't. That's why I'm worried about one thing, and I think it's gonna be the institute that's really used. I have information that personnel, respectively. financial collateral for this institute is not what it should be. Cca is two employees per county and it should be noted that it is large regions, it is the old-fashioned ones, for example ČOI in Hradec Králové solves or has in its Gesture the Králové Hradecký Region as well as the Pardubický Region. And these regions should be set aside, and also financially earmarked, only money for two workers for this activity. [[18.30 hours]] I am of the opinion that this is insufficient financial assurance that the COI also deals with other things, and if the COI workers should still be used to do other things about this, it would only be wrong and not to the benefit of the Czech Trade Inspection and the citizen who expects the possible mediation of the dispute or out-of-court solution to take place in some relatively bearable period. [[unintelligible]] That is why I proposed at the last session of the constitutional committee a resolution which, I believe, was supported by all Members present across the political spectrum. Perhaps my memory does not deceive me, I think everyone really, and where the constitutional committee once again stated, virtually. notes that the financial and material security of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority is not sufficient with regard to the amount of the planned agenda. Fourthly, he asks the government to provide sufficient material and financial support for the Czech Trade Inspection. I repeat, the point is that this out-of-court resolution of the dispute that we are talking about today is a good thing that will be good for the citizen, so that it doesn't happen that citizens want to use it, but in terms of capacity and financial, sometimes I don't know when. Because we're going to raise some expectations here, and if there aren't enough workers, we won't be able to meet them. Therefore, the constitutional law committee asks for this, and I strongly appeal to the government, namely the Ministry of Finance, in order to ensure a really sufficient material, financial and personnel basis for the performance of this activity. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u11	I thank Mr Chvojka. And now, according to the order of Mr Jeroným Tejc, Mr Kudela, then Mr Vondráček, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u12	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, let me briefly introduce you to the three amendments that I have tabled, and I will apply to two. The one has already passed the constitutional law committee test and has been recommended. I would like to start by thanking the Ministry of Industry and Trade for their cooperation and also for submitting this press because I think it can be of much help. The first amendment is quite technical. It introduces that the Czech Trade Inspection Authority should be able to supervise compliance with the obligations of Article 14 of the European Parliament Regulation, so that this is rather a technical matter. However, the two are no longer technical. One, the simpler amendment introduces the obligation of the organizers of the demonstration events or their organizers to have certain elements on the leaflets which must be announced today, the price of the product which is being offered was also stated so that each consumer can go home before visiting such an event, even though we are not all recommending it, and yet he will do so in order to verify the actual price of this product and not be surprised afterwards that he bought something that is completely overpriced. And the second proposal, which was passed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, is that the organizer of the demonstration event would not be allowed to collect any financial amount from the customer, from the person to whom he sold or supplied the goods for seven days after the sale, from the time he concluded the contract. To put it simply, he could not, therefore, collect money for those seven days, because for that period of 14 days, the possibility of withdrawing from this contract runs. In many cases it happened that the consumer bought the goods, found that they were not satisfied with it or that the goods were overpriced, he resigned within 14 days and unfortunately did not receive any money, even though he was legally entitled to them, because the company was rewritten to white horses, was in insolvency or otherwise ended. An even worse case occurred when the consumer did everything he has, which means not only that he withdrew from the contract, but also returned the goods, in which case he was usually without the goods even without the money. So these situations should be prevented by the fact that after seven days, the consumer will be able to withdraw without paying until then. Of course, a better solution would be if that period were 14 days throughout the period of withdrawal, but that would have come up with a European directive, so that is why this model was not chosen. That is all, and I would ask you to discuss the press today and be able to approve it at the third reading. Originally, I was talking here about the fact that it might be good to put in place bail for the organizers of demonstration events, and we were trying to find the right legislative solution. But I have to say after many debates with representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade that this would run into a number of technical problems of the trade law, so we chose this other solution that I was talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u13	Thank you, Mr. Jeroný Tejc. Now in the order of Mr Kudela and then colleague Luzar. Although Mr Vondráček has applied, not electronically, he knows that electronic applications have priority under the Rules of Procedure. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this bill has been prepared by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and I also thank you for the amendments prepared by the Constitutional Committee. It is a great pity that we did not come up with these proposals until 2015 and no one came up with them in 1995, 1997, when there was a huge boom of demonstration events, and many of our citizens fell in, and so far many have not recovered. And the problem is, they haven't learned their lesson, and they're still getting caught. Mr Tejc spoke about the amendments prepared by the Constitutional Legal Committee. Both the seven-day period and the obligation to inform about all goods including the prices that will be informed at the demonstration events are very good proposals. However, the Constitutional Committee also wants to transfer out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes from the Czech Trade Inspection also to other entities dealing with consumer disputes, which it calls other entities entrusted with the Ministry of Industry. He also said that the Constitutional Committee stated that the financial material security of the Czech Trade Inspection is not sufficient with regard to the expected level of the agenda, so then I do not know what will be addressed the financing of these other entities entrusted to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I also consulted with the Ministry. I was told that the amount written in the explanatory memorandum was 6 million. CZK, given the extensive scope of the Czech Trade Inspection Network, should be sufficient. A proposal was also submitted to the Economic Committee for the establishment of parameters for the establishment of an information database on consumer credit and credibility. It specifies how many entities must be involved in the register, how consumer information is collected, recorded and who can use it and how long they are registered. However, in order for such databases to really have consumer protection, it is necessary to protect consumers in some way. Thus, who looks at the amendment, it is only the seller who protects it, for he says which consumer is untrustworthy. Unless, of course, there is another intention for providers and interested parties to provide information about who is in debt and how they are prone to further debt, which could easily be misused. I cannot agree with some of the wordings specifying the information database on bonus and consumer credibility. For example, the applicant should be introduced into the database without his consent. Although it is proposed that he be informed of this registration when he is entered in the register. [[18.40 hours]] In order for the debtor register to be truly important for consumer protection, it is also necessary to protect consumers from themselves. What do I mean? A consumer whose debt or debt is recorded after the due date against which enforcement proceedings are even conducted should not be able to apply for the supply of services or to purchase products resulting in further claims. Many consumers are uneducated, but I think we should protect them. If the seller looks into the debtor's register and sees that the consumer or the borrower is already being held as a debtor, he should not be able to sell something to such a borrower. When someone says the bank didn't want to lend him a loan, buy him some chocolate and go thank them because they protected you from more and more trouble. In this matter, I have prepared an amendment to which I would like to sign up in a detailed debate. I have already seen Mr Klán's proposal prepared in the system, I do not know if he will read it, which suggests that the information database should not be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u15	I thank Mr Kudel. Now in the general debate, Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr Vondráček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm quite briefly about this law. I think there is no one in the House who would doubt that the consumer protection law is very necessary. Today, all these disputes, if no consensus is found, end up in court. Unfortunately, courts are swamped with this work, and the enforcement of law in these matters usually ends with ordinary consumers waving their hands. It's just not worth it to him and the effect of going all the way to a lawsuit with a supplier of goods he's complaining about. So the state here finds room for, say, effective mediation between a disgruntled client and a supplier of a product with which it is dissatisfied. Of course, the problem arises when the product is more complex. This is where the distinctive shoes and the distinctive shark in the shoe fell, i.e. a depraved sole. I'm sure you've seen it many times before. It's hard to prove what actually caused the foot to deflect. It usually ends with someone delivering the so-called. expert opinion in the field, which speaks of the technological breach of the process of production, or, if applicable, the process of production. Bad materials delivered. I'm talking about it for one simple reason. This draft, which we have before us, does not take into account the cost of carrying out expert opinions. She talks about the issue of personnel, talks about the issue of time and utilization of state authorities providing this service, but no longer talks about other costs associated with this enforcement. So I'm talking about expert opinions that would assess the merits, if any. that would express the value. From this point of view, I would appeal to the petitioner to consider this problem of expert opinion, if any. he considered regulating their costs, because, of course, if the demand for expert opinions rises, if the mediator, if I use that term, is unable to advise, then of course the market offer will come up at that moment and enormous sums will be demanded for expert opinions on goods. So I highly recommend this issue here, Minister, to deal with and seek ways to regulate so that there is no significant increase in the services of experts and, of course, the cost of the state budget at that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u17	I thank my colleague Luzar. Now in the general debate, Mr Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'll be a rocket. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would briefly discuss my amendment. I was a little surprised by my colleague Kudela, because this is basically a competitive project at the moment. To explain. The consumer bonus information database was the subject of Mr Velebný's amendment, which was discussed by the Economic Committee. However, there have been a number of possible legislative errors, and I have read a similar amendment at the time of the constitutional committee's discussion, and on the basis of Mr Benda's initiative and the opinion of the Office on Personal Data Protection, this proposal has been modified and is now registered in the system as an amendment under my name. I only had a very brief opportunity to get to know Mr Kudela's proposal. I don't think it's possible for the information databases to work only on the basis of consent. Then it denies their purpose. Furthermore, there is such a lack that there is a mandatory inquiry into the database, and that would mean that even in the case of milk supply it would be necessary if I took it ad absurdum, to request information from the database. I'll close it by recommending both the World Bank and the OECD. These registers may help consumers to gain better access to finance and products on the financial market. After all, I also respond to the recommendation of the Office for Personal Data Protection, which long ago calls for this field of registry to be regulated in some way. Since my amendment also contains a written statement of reasons, I refer to it in the rest, so that we may be able to negotiate this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u19	Thank you. That was all in the general debate. I don't see anyone else. I'm done with the general debate. I do not think that there is a need for final words after a general debate, because there was no proposal to return the guarantee committee to a renegotiation under Paragraph 93 (2) of the EC Treaty. 2. I am opening a detailed debate. First, then, Mr Chvojka, who reported himself as rapporteur with priority rights for a detailed debate. I don't see him, so my colleague Tejc in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u20	I would like to sign up for my written amendments under the numbers 2795 and 2832. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u21	Thank you, Mr Tejc. Now, Mr Kudela, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u22	Hello. I am reporting for my amendment under number 2842. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u23	Thank you. Now, Mr Vondráček, in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u24	Hello. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is under number 2811 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u25	Thank you. In a detailed debate, the rapporteur Václav Snopek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very brief. I am reporting for amendments which have been inserted as House documents under the numbers 2805, 2818 and 2835. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u27	I ask, Mr rapporteur, if you have also exhausted the proposals of the Constitutional Legal Committee from Mr Chvojka. Yes. So I'm asking if there's anyone else in the debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. And I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word, Minister. It's not like that. The rapporteur's final word? It's not like that. Since there is no proposal for a vote, I am ending second reading of this press point 21. We've got the last 12 minutes ahead of us, and I'm asking... Mr. Chairman of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u28	Yes, thank you. As you rightly said, we have eleven minutes until 7:00 p.m. at the moment. We have now held consultations with the club presidents, and it seems to me that we could reach an agreement in the sense that we would end today by discussing paragraph 7 - budgetary determination of taxes. So, at this point, I would like to make a procedural proposal for us to take action, and to vote in terms of territorial and procedural terms, on all proposals even after 7 p.m., on behalf of social democracy and YES 2011.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-16-ps2013-031-02-016-021.u29	In view of this proposal, I have no choice but to ask you for a decision, in the vote order number 74. I'm taking you all out of the diaper. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will decide that we will continue to act in a territorial manner even after 7:00 p.m. until 7:00 p.m., by voting in order number 74, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 74 of 123 present for 59, against 38. The motion was not accepted. [[Restlessness in the room.]] We can continue until 7:00. The Minister is present, so I can call on him to take the floor on the recital
