ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u1	205. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations These are answers to written interpelations which the Members have not agreed to. We are beginning with a suspended interpelation according to the House press 517 and this is an interpellation of Zdeněk Ondráček in the case of a crime scene in the violent death of a man in Jihlava. Mr. Ondráček is here, Mr. Home Secretary is here too. We can continue with the punctuation. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues. I'm here for the fourth time. We've interrupted three times. I'm glad we can get to this interpellation today, when I've been intersecting the Home Secretary to investigate the crime scene in the violent death of a man in Jihlava. It was a specific case where the police arrived in March of this year, carried out certain examinations, called the doctor, the doctor examined the body, subsequently summoned the coroner, performed examination of the body, and the body was taken to the Institute of Medical Medicine, where the medical autopsy was to be performed. In the medical autopsy, the doctor stated that the person did not die of a heart attack or a normal disease, but that his head was shot, so they interrupted the autopsy, announced it to the Police of the Czech Republic, the police re-evaluated the request and ordered the autopsy of the court. It was said that a person died by a gunshot wound to the head by violent death. I asked the Minister whether he believed that the police's procedure on the spot was professional and whether it was in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure and with all internal acts of the Czech Police's proceedings, which regulate the examination of the crime scene and the examination of the body, given that no gunshot wounds were detected during the examination or during the on-the-spot examination itself. I asked because before I worked on corruption, I was on the edge for eight years, where I also investigated violent crimes and investigated several murders. This procedure came to me, let's say, very unstandard and very unprofessional. The minister replied that the data provided by the criminal police service and the investigation showed that police officers on the scene had acted in a standard manner, when the reported event and the founding of the deceased were summoned to the site by a medical emergency medical professional. As part of the examination of the body - I note the examination of the body, probably did not examine the head as well - within the meaning of Section 84 of the Health Services Act, he stated that he was unable to tell whether it was a natural or violent death. I don't know how this doctor performed a body search. I know you're some of you doctors here. I happen to be looking at a colleague over there, Štětina, who was the director of the Rescue Service in the Hradec Králové Region, so he probably knows what such trips look like. Consequently, a coroner's doctor was summoned to attend these events today. A koroner or a coroner, if we wanted to be gender-balanced, noted that death was caused by a disease - I wonder how such a coroner performed a physical examination when he didn't find out that someone had a gunshot wound to the head - related to a previous history of the deceased. Of course, the cops identified it, or, say, satisfied, and had the body taken to the medical autopsy just mentioned, which should say that the death was caused by the previous history, that is to say, some disease that the patient, or the victim of the crime, had. The following was that two days later, doctors at the Institute of Medical Medicine in Brno performed an autopsy and found out that the man was shot in the head, so they reported it to the police. The police re-evaluated this procedure, ordered an autopsy, a forensic autopsy showed that the cause of death was a gunshot wound to the head that he couldn't have caused himself, because I assume they didn't find any gunshot wounds that could be. Then they began searching with a distance of several days. Given the police authorities' ability to arrest a suspect in a relatively short period of time, who subsequently confessed to the crime and was charged with the crime of murder. As a former police officer investigating such criminal activity, I cannot identify myself with the fact that the police, virtually. Department of Criminal Police Services will say that everything was okay and that they followed the standard procedure. If the Czech police are working like this now, at this time, and it's the standard way for them, I'm a little appalled by it, and I'm asking how many murders we have and how many similar suspicious deaths are driven into a corner by the poor work of the police. [[9.10 hours]] I once held a colloquium here Current problems in investigating suspicious deaths, where we agreed with forensic experts, with coroners, but also with prosecutors and others, that we're dropping a little bit and that we can get into a problem that we had here a few years ago, let's say, and maybe you'll remember the Stodolův case. And I'd hate for us to have dead and put this thing down again. I believe that this police procedure was very unprofessional. It was to be dealt with by the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps. And I would like to tell you, for you, who are, say, less familiar with criminal law, that in our criminal law, we have in the Code of Criminal Procedure § 330 Undermining the task of an official person from negligence. I will quote you in the first paragraph: an official who, in exercising his power of negligence, fails or significantly makes it difficult to fulfil an important task, will be punished. The definition of the moment when such a thwart, or substantial difficulty in fulfilling an important task, is one of the most important problems associated with this crime. In scientific literature, it is considered an important task to prevent it from being carried out at the time it was to be carried out. The substantial difficulty of fulfilling is the creation of such conditions under which more energy, time or resources are needed to meet than would be needed under normal conditions. In order to outline what the applicable caselaw considers to be a failure of an important task within the meaning of Section 330 (1) of the EC Treaty, the Court of Justice considers to be an infringement of the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Criminal Code, I note that this also means a breach of the obligation of the authorized official to discuss the administrative offence and to decide on it within a legal pre-exclusive period. Therefore, where an official causes the administrative liability of a particular person to lapse by his or her inactivity, criminal liability may be established against him or her. Another example of this crime committed by an employee of the cadastral office who was not reliably aware of the facts of the case and nevertheless decided to authorise the transfer of ownership to the cadastral real estate register, although from the previous course of the procedure for authorising such a deposit, such as the observations of one of the participants, it was clear that such a decision did not correspond to the facts. Another example where an official of negligence issued a building permit contrary to the municipality's zoning plan. In this particular case, it must be noted that the construction law is certainly an important element of public administration, but, on the other hand, it is certainly not an element of extraordinary importance, but for me, and I hope, not only for me, it is criminal proceedings. Therefore, if the "common" permit of the construction in violation of the zoning plan also constitutes a frustrating of an important task, this opens up a very wide scope for criminal sanctions for thwarting or aggravating other public administration tasks on a number of other sections. Clearly, therefore, a number of tasks must be an important task for a police officer or a city police officer, whether they are acts of police officers in criminal proceedings or other tasks directly protecting the rights of citizens. And that decision already exists. For example, a police officer in the course of carrying out his duties as part of the control of persons stationed in a police cell decided to release the detained person to liberty, although he knew that an application had already been made to the competent court at that time. He therefore made a decision which he was not entitled to under the Code of Criminal Procedure because only a judge is entitled to such an act. At the same time, this police officer made it impossible for the judge to decide on a motion for detention and thereby thwarted the achievement of an important task in criminal proceedings. I'll be back. Who will make it significantly difficult to meet - it means creating such conditions under which more energy, time or resources are needed than was needed under normal conditions. And that's exactly the case. If they found out right away that the person was shot in the head, they could be looking for a so-called hot track, the perpetrator could have been exposed within, say, a few hours. This is how the perpetrator began to search after 48 hours, if not more. In the meantime, they could have been thwarted, or deleted, the footage of camera systems that eventually led to the conviction of the perpetrator, but more importantly, such a person could have continued his criminal activity and committed similar acts against another person. My serious colleagues, my colleagues, I'm not interested in criminalizing any police officer. I am concerned with the performance of the Police of the Czech Republic, the quality of the work that someone is doing. If he doesn't do the job, then he should also be properly rewarded for it, or punished. This has not happened in this case, and I cannot accept that the Minister's reply is that everything has been done in accordance with the legislation as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u3	That was Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček. The Minister of the Interior will respond to his reservations about the original written response to the interpelation. I'm going to ask a fellow Volný to make it possible for the Minister to perform. [[The appointed Member shall speak to a member of the Government at the speaker's desk.]] Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think this debate is necessary, although I do not have to agree with my colleague Ondráček, so I am glad that we have the opportunity to discuss these issues on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. You know, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I don't know what else we should want from these cops. I have been very familiar with the case and I want to apologize to my colleague, Mr Ondráček, through Mr President, that my answer or the opportunity to answer has lasted this long. Those cops came to the scene where they found the person killed, and there was no indication that there was a crime, because there were keys to all the locks in the facility, there were funds, and it didn't appear to be a criminal offence. A paramedic was called in for emergency assistance, who examined the person and the police were not sure of the cause of death, so they called in the coroner. I mean, a doctor who's in charge and who's responsible for examining the body. Even a police officer, when the victim's entire body was examined, or at that time we thought that the person had died of natural causes, even a police officer held the head of the victim that the coroner was investigating, and given that there was a disease in that person, which also suggests that there was a massacre of both body fluids and blood after the death, the blood found on the head was defined in relation to the disease suffered by that person. Of course, the cops were already talking to the neighborhood, the neighbors, if they hadn't seen any suspects, and they started the standard procedure, as always. Even the coroner didn't find a gunshot wound in the head near that person, and a 635 pistol was used here, which is a very small caliber, which means there's just no bullet wound to the head. I'm bohužel so. By law, who determines the cause of death - the law is clear, he is a doctor. And those cops called in the paramedics to call in the coroner. Consequently, a medical autopsy was ordered, the classic medical, not forensic, but medical. When the body was washed and further examined directly at the autopsy room, it was found that the man was just killed by a gunshot. That was the procedure, and those officers were disciplined. But they weren't disciplined because they misjudged the cause of death, again I say, that is clearly in the gesture of the doctor. [[9.20 hours]] They were punished by reducing five percent of the salary for one month, due to the fact that in the next, even closer examination of the body there was some other evidence. It was some documents and funds in the pocket of the person concerned. And for that they were affected. But we can very difficultly prosecute a police officer for misdefining the cause of death when two doctors are unable to determine it. I don't know how we're supposed to judge these cops here. The police evaluated the hit on the scene, found faults, but the flaws weren't related to determining the cause of death. This is really and clearly in the gesture of the doctor. In this sense, I replied to my esteemed colleague, and I insist on that answer. I got to know the case very closely, and I consulted him with the appropriate police officer this morning before going to the Chamber of Deputies meeting. So, my colleague, this is our position and, of course, we can come back to this debate anytime. Otherwise, the explanation of murders in the Czech Republic is quite high. About 91 percent. For your information, this year, according to the known statistics we have so far, 120 murders have been committed on the territory of the Czech Republic, and, if I am not mistaken, 112 has been explained. So I don't think the police are doing a bad job here. If you feel the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps was going to handle this, then I guess there's still a chance, if that thing isn't out there, to contact her to investigate the matter. I don't think it's necessary, I don't have that feeling. But if you have that feeling, then of course it is your choice and right to do so. Thank you for the question and thank you for the debate. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u5	I thank the Home Secretary Milan Chovanc. Mr Jiří Štětina, a Member of Parliament, came forward to the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u6	Hello. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have been called here in a way to respond in some way. You may know that I've been a doctor for over 50 years, and I've encountered similar cases as well. I must say, quite clearly, that in this case, I am defending the Police of the Czech Republic, because my experience - and I would allow myself to briefly state my first case when I carried out a kind of suicide at the Ministry of the Interior in 1966 in July, because there was an obligation for a ministerial surgeon to be at the scene of the crime. So I came to one of the resorts in the Giant Mountains, and since I was completely inexperienced, I said, folks, but it doesn't look like suicide to me here. At that moment, the member - and I say, it's almost 50 years - at that moment everyone is finished - said: there must be an exit from Hradec Králové. And it was a big lesson for me, because I just may have registered more than a hundred cases of death in the field, so I have some experience. So I think that the Police of the Czech Republic have done nothing about this case, and I am glad that the Minister has justified it in such a way that we need to talk about this. It is a health system. I keep saying and saying that health care in our country is good, quality, that it almost has no flaws, but they are. I'm bohužel so. As an emergency medical doctor that I founded, a medical team or, as a result, a vehicle of rapid medical assistance was always on the way to all cases. And it was the doctor's responsibility, as he assessed the case. And indeed, the doctor who comes to the scene of the disease, the death, is responsible for whether he orders the autopsy, the medical autopsy, or the forensics, of course, doesn't order the autopsy, only to recommend it to the law enforcement authorities. But he has to find out if a crime is committed. It is not therefore the police of the Police of the Czech Republic's exit group, but it is a fundamental error of doctors. Unfortunately, our health system is such that we don't usually have doctors in the exit groups today, so the doctor is just leaving there on the basis of recommendations or decisions of middle medical workers. It's okay. But unfortunately, we still have systems - a system of coroners - and I have never called any other doctor, the so-called coroner, but always to the place where this incident happened, was a doctor, and this doctor simply had to solve it, including writing a death certificate. This means, once again, I want to stress that I do not see any error in the Police of the Czech Republic, but I see a failure in the medical rescue service and it is more necessary to address this matter - and I am speaking as a forensic expert in this field - this case needs to be dealt with at the level of health and not at GIBS or complaints against law enforcement authorities. That's my opinion, which, of course, comes from experience. Finally, I really believe that the Police of the Czech Republic have committed nothing. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u7	Thank you, Mr. Štětin. No one else has yet been entered into the debate. Mr. Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u8	Once again, Mr President, thank you. I thank my colleague Štětin. I just can't agree with the conclusions that are from the Home Office. The investigator's responsible for examining the body, and in case of doubt, he's supposed to call the exit service. And if you, my colleague, mentioned - through Mr President - that you were inexperienced and threatened the arrival of the exit group, so what? That's how the county directorate's exit group is coming. Every suspicious death - and it's learned in CSI, it's learned at the Police Academy, at every police school, every death is to be investigated as a murder from the very beginning. And when we prove all the circumstances that this isn't a murder, we can postpone this thing as a suicide or as a sudden death. But just here in this case, the police were supposed to find out the head shot, and the examination of the body was wrong. Unfortunately, he may have been unlucky to use a small caliber. We're gonna have to tell people to arm themselves with 45s or 38s, so unfortunately it's more destructive on the body. But even if he was shot with a slaughter gun, it's the police's duty to conduct an examination with the doctor's involvement. And I see the doctor's error there too. And our colleague's performance was that we want the coroners to have more education. We wanted this together, with the Ministry of Justice, we recommended it to the Ministry of Health. But the health department's answer was that there's no need to train anyone that everything works. But I do not think that everything works, and I will insist that we take this answer as inadequate, and I cannot identify with the fact that - we have a high clarity - but that everything has been done in this case completely according to the law and, respectively, all the police procedures that are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u9	Yes, now Mr Václav Klučka in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I volunteered because my colleague, Ondráček, mentioned the General Inspection of the Security Corps. He mentioned it because he asked the question that she should be saving it. I would very much like us to realise that there is something in that law on the General Inspection of the Security Corps in terms of the assignment that has been approved. So let me introduce you to that in the introduction. The task of the inspection is to seek, expose and test the facts suggesting that an offence has been committed, the perpetrator of which is - please § 2 (a) - a member of the Police of the Czech Republic, customs officer, a member of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic or a member of the inspection - I repeat, a member of the inspection, which is further considered only a member in the nomenclature. [[9.30 hours]] In point (b), an employee of the Czech Republic assigned to work in the Police of the Czech Republic or in inspection - I repeat or in inspection. Point (c) employee of the Czech Republic assigned to the work in the Customs Administration of the Czech Republic or the Prison Service of the Czech Republic, if the offence was committed in connection with the performance of his duties. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of the same section: The task of the inspection is to investigate the criminal offence of a member of the Police of the Czech Republic, customs officer, member of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic or employee of the Czech Republic who is employed in the Police of the Czech Republic and (b) an employee of the Czech Republic who is employed in the Customs Administration of the Czech Republic or the Prison Service of the Czech Republic if the offence has been committed in connection with the performance of his duties. This Regulation In addition, the inspection shall be carried out by the persons referred to in paragraph 3. 1 and 2 carry out a confidence test. In the fourth paragraph: The task of the inspection is to monitor and evaluate information about the illegal activity of members of the Police of the Czech Republic, members of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic and members of the Customs Administration of the Czech Republic. The inspection proposes measures to prevent this illegal activity. Then there is another paragraph. 5: The task of the inspection is to issue methodological recommendations for the activities of individual security forces. Sorry for being so extensive in the list, because the General Inspection of the Security Corps is currently being very intensely discussed, very intensively compared, and it is a concept of immense intensity in media means, which, of course, are based on verified or unverified information. Now let's get back to the case itself. I do not know why the General Inspection of Security Corps at a time when the Police of the Czech Republic re-qualified this case has not been addressed with the possibility of assessing whether it is not a criminal offence. But from what I've heard, it's obvious that then, after this case and after the re-qualification, it happened that someone was punished with five percent or how much of the salary, which suggests that it was handled as a misdemeanor. Why was this handled as a violation, or, say, a breach of work obligations, a violation of internal order, we don't know the answer. Why is that? So what my colleague Zdeněk Ovčáček, Ondráček said - I apologize to Zdeněk, through the President - what my colleague says is simply a serious matter. No one invited the inspection to assess whether or not it was a crime he was quoting from the penal code at the time. I want to say from this place that there is no statute of limitations. There is no time limit, and if I, as a member of the supervisory authority, have heard it here, then at the next meeting of the Supervisory Board, I will raise this complaint against the General Inspection of the Security Corps with a request for verification. If nothing else, if nothing else, what I have told you here in paragraph 5 can succeed, that the task of inspection is to issue methodological recommendations for the activities of individual security forces in order to eliminate these risks. This happened, for example, in a case that was investigated in Uherské Brod, which was subsequently issued eight or nine methodological recommendations for the Police of the Czech Republic. This, too, is the task of inspection - to prevent the risks arising from crime in the security forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed, allow me to welcome a rare visit to the Chamber of Deputies, now at the press gallery - its excellence, President of the State of Israel, Mr Reuven Rivlin. [[Members of the President's health with uprising and long applause.]] Mr Ondráček will be next for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my colleague Klučka from this place for taking this case to the committee he is chairing, because the Minister of the Interior also said that police officers were punished for misinterpreting. How they did the examination of the body when they didn't even find any materials in their pocket that they found afterwards, or found them all the way to the table, is evidence of how they did the examination of the body. And unfortunately, I keep repeating, the body wasn't searched for as much as they were taught at the boarding police school, and if they had some college police direction, they couldn't even teach it there. Of course, there can be no discussion of the fact that a doctor has his fault there too. Yes, even the doctor is responsible, but I'm talking about the Police of the Czech Republic. Have the Minister of Health investigate any medical misconduct, if any. Let's discuss how coroners are supposed to work. We outlined it on our colloquium. Through the Justice Department, we raised this problem. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Health, through his deputy, swept them off the table, that everything was okay with us. It's not okay. If people are just shot in the head and we don't find out, virtually. where the medical autopsy isn't ordered, if the medical autopsy wasn't ordered, because even that one doesn't need to be performed on every body, and today we know how many autopsies are performed, so it would end up in a way that no one knows anything about the murder. And it's a pathetic state that we've come to, and I can't accept that this is how it is. They taught me something else in police school and in my work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u13	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - I was almost afraid now that the applause was for me, but I guess it wasn't. I would also like to add some of the data from this debate that has just been raised here. This police intervention and investigation was handled by the Department of Internal Control of the Vysočina Region and was methodically supervised by a superior body within the police. The error I mentioned was found to have been found and a 5% reduction was imposed on police officers for a period of one month. The police are really responsible for investigating the crime scene, but the doctor is responsible for determining the cause of death. That cop can't... We can't ask a police officer to know all the causes and possibilities of sickness and death that are considered. The fact that it wasn't found here - it was a small caliber and the bullet didn't come out of the head, which means it stayed in the victim's head and the finding was very complicated. He was found by a really third doctor in a row when he performed a medical autopsy, where he had enough peace, enough light, a mistake of the body and found the really small bullet that was there. In order to avoid the impression that the police underestimated it, there were four police officers on the scene. Head of the exit group, technician, investigator and CSI. These four officers were at the scene. [[9.40 hours]] And once again, allow me to finish my last speech on this matter today with one number that I will repeat. Ninety-one percent of the murders in the Czech Republic are explained. I would hate for us to flat-rate and criticize the work of the police. It's not true, and those cops come to places where we don't often want to be. Fights, gunfights, and where there are dead people. When I was in Uhersky Brod and I saw those dead bodies from a long distance, I have to say, it doesn't feel good. I don't envy cops, and maybe even here, they deserve to be thanked for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u15	Thank you, Minister. Once again, colleague Štětina in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u16	Thank you again, Mr Vice-President. I don't like to talk about things I don't understand. But I think this is the thing I've been doing my whole professional life. I am glad that there have been words here that criticize someone on the one hand, on the other hand, there is a solution. Indeed, if I had to write a judicial opinion, there is no way I would have blamed the Police of the Czech Republic in this case, but the health service. And quite rightly, colleague Ondráček said that it is necessary to deal with the level of the coroners. This is indeed a matter of health care, and this should be the conclusion. But I wouldn't blame any cop who was at the scene of this murder case, so I certainly wouldn't, because if I signed a search sheet for the dead guy, I'm gonna have to check out one of the pigsty. Whether this death is violent or not. If I don't check it and write that it's a sudden death - it's probably a cardiac attack - then the police don't have to touch the person at all, they don't have to do any investigation. It would certainly be interesting here, what was the emergency call, who arrived first on the scene of this case, but I believe, and I am therefore convinced that the Police of the Czech Republic did not actually commit a major error in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u17	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I must respond, of course, to the Minister. I don't criticize the police's work as such, I appreciate their work. I know many colleagues who work violent crimes, and I am still in touch with them today. I appreciate the work. I've seen many corpses, and I've examined many corpses. And I know what our stats are. This is about one particular case where I just say it was done wrong. And if you said there were four of them on the scene, yes, there was a classic county exit. But if you look at the internal act of driving, the one person who's head of the exit group is responsible for examining the body. And we can talk about it all we want because we know how many bodies are being dissected today. If it was an old grandmother and we found her at home, no one would even dissect her or dissect her, and we'd just miss it under our hands, and we'd miss one of the murders. Unfortunately, that's the situation. And those coroners, we're gonna go back to that, and of course I can't relate to the statement made by the Deputy Minister of Health that it all works for us. I am glad that this is confirmed by colleague Štětina, and let us work on it. Any crime of violence that escapes us from the negligence of the police or the doctors who conduct the examination of the body is simply wrong. I think we should have learned from the Stodolův case. I think we've had cases like this in the past. It's about improving our work or our police work, but not closing our eyes. And if it's a crime that some cadastral cadastral official puts something in the real estate register, well, yes, of course, it's criminal negligence. But if we're not in any way - I'm not saying I want his head on the block, I want someone to prosecute him, but we just have to say, this is where it was wrong. And I've quoted Section 330 of the Criminal Code on a negligence crime, and I've told you cases outside the Police of the Czech Republic that are being assessed under this paragraph, and if we see it here that it's all OK, I'm saying again, I don't agree with it. I appreciate the police work, including Saturdays, Sundays. You know, I've been giving you an interview now writing how our police officers work at border crossings. That they have no social background, that they go to the woods when they need to go to the bathroom. That there's 12 hours in the rain, that they don't even have a shelter, that's what we've been talking about, and that's where you have that interpelation. I appreciate the police work. But I'm also willing and able to say that if something goes wrong somewhere, I'm willing to criticize it, too. And in this case, I'm doing it. This particular case was from my point of view a person who investigated such a crime, just messed up for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u19	No one in the debate. Specify your proposal, Mr. Ambassador. Resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u20	I have already said this in the debate that I do not agree with the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u21	So you're suggesting that the Chamber of Deputies disagree with the Minister Chovanec's response to your interpelation, yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u22	Yes, that's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u23	We will decide in the vote order number 137, which I initiate and ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 137, from 98 present for 20, against 32. The motion was not accepted. Thank you, Mr President, thank you to the Minister, and before we proceed to the next interview, I will introduce you to other apologies. Mr Martin Novotný apologises within 14 hours, Mr Gabal within 11 hours and Mr Kaňkovský by 11.30. Another interview with which a Member of the Chamber of Deputies disagreed is that of Mr Jan Farský, who does not agree with the reply of the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, on an interview in the Journal of Law. It's print 551. The hearing has been adjourned. I'm asking - a colleague of Farský's reporting. I'm opening the debate and you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u24	Mr President, Vice-President of the Government, in the Journal of Law on 20 June, I read in an interview made by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš that he knows at least four five thieves in the Chamber of Deputies. Exactly how many thieves are there in the House? As far as I know, at least four or five. So I asked a written question about who the thieves were and what actions they had committed. I received answers in July, when the Deputy Prime Minister sent me a reply in the text: "I will not mark these at the request of a particular mention of persons and, as in the interview for the Rule of Law, I will leave the answer in general so that you do not use my answer for further attacks against me. " I have already appeared here twice before the Chamber of Deputies and, unfortunately, not once was the Vice-President of the Government present to explain this, which I cannot but be confused about. Because if I am to imagine that in an answer where I would know who the thieves are in the Chamber of Deputies, I could use that answer to further attacks against the Vice-President of the Government, I personally cannot explain it any other way than as a confession or as an accusation of the closest co-workers. I am glad that, for the third time, the Deputy Prime Minister has arrived, and I believe that today we will learn who the four or five thieves in the Chamber of Deputies are. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u25	Thank you, Mr Farský. In addition to the debate, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, Deputy Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Mr. Farský asked who the thieves were. I think those who sit here for a long time remember over the years who's done what, who's done what, who's done what, and we also know how the corruption system was actually built here, the octopus, the hydra. And that's why today we're in a situation where actually marking these people, it's not about me, it's about those who had the courage to point the finger and report corruption, so they're in big trouble. The Treasury has organized an anti-corruption conference. People from all over the world came, it was with the participation of Norwegian funds, there was the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. We had this evening when we met with NGOs, and they were doing some kind of presentation. Was there a corrupture (?). And the main problem is that our fellow citizens, who had the courage to name the corruption, were actually being investigated themselves and even some accused. And they attended that night. So we have a system, and some of the prosecutors or cops standing in their seats, now we have some case, Olomouc, we have some speculation that the head of the GIBS was appointed by Mr. Langer. I would only name one example of the anti-corruption conference, and that is Mrs. State's Attorney Máchová's example. She received the title Lady Opencard from NGOs and she was responsible for the fact that the corruption Homolka, Pragobanka, Srba, Čs. funds, ticket cases have never been investigated, respectively. She's got them covered. Well, the head of the organization, when she announced it, was invited for questioning. Probably a related cop. His name is Colonel JUDr. Mgr Gejza Rakaš. He interrogated her for 3.5 hours. And there's still one case missing from Mrs Máchová's arrest list, my colleague, and that's your chairman's case. Because it was Mrs Máchová who arranged for Mr Kalousek's suspicion of corruption to be handed over to the right policemen, which is what they did. The system still works. And imagine now, such a coincidence that this Rakaš is investigating Mr. Pelikán's pseudocussion, now it's written in the paper, it's a problem, it's a fictional case, it's nonsense. It's the same guy that's investigating it. Isn't that weird? It's in the papers. The Minister wasn't even invited to give an explanation. So this is where a system is built that still works. Well, if you want those names from me, I'm not gonna tell you. Why would I say that? Those four here yesterday were discussing the budget vehemently. I sent you a book. [[Shows the book 20 years of official and political games.]] There's a lot of cause here. There's no proof. When the judicial mafia was here under the leadership of Mrs. Vesecký, Kučera and the corrupt hydra that was built here, then no wonder people are scared. And it would be a waste of time for me. That's what I see in the case that I, as Mr. Kalousek here, made a $10 million bet. Word-telling. Investigated, investigated, so now I've learned, thanks to Czech television, that I won't say "pro" but I'll say "suck" and "smaller." So now we have an investigation, it's the same headlines. [[The Minister is asked for several Members to speak on the microphone.]] And it was Mrs Máchová who arranged Friday 15.30. And even the cops who were investigating or investigating wrote to me, it doesn't matter. So I said, it's my opinion, I stand by it. We've had a lot of very controversial issues in the House in the past. Solars, church restitutions, etc., so I'm not going to say those names from this title, because first of all, it would be used against me, and second of all, it's my opinion, and I'm just saying that the corruption network that was built here in some way seems to be part of the Olomouc case where they were accused or investigated, or I don't know when they were wired by some high-ranking police officers, so it's actually a weird aftertaste. In the anti-corruption conference, mostly, what we need is to treat the whistleblowing. You guys had a lot of anti-corruption committees in the past, and they talked about it, and they didn't get enough of it. And today, those NGOs are pointing that out. Yes, people who point to corruption were then in trouble. Some have been charged. I read this morning that someone got 7.5 years for ProMoPro. Who decided that, Mopro? Wasn't he a politician, by any chance? Or was it the poor clerk? So we can talk about it this way. So in our state, it looks like we have one police force that isn't afraid of one state attorney, and if they're taking advantage of politicians, well, the GIBS that was supposed to intervene in various cases, even in the case of 4.5 billion Zadeh, which we lost thanks to customs, they don't interfere. Yesterday they intervened by accident, I don't know what's in there, if someone was using a car or something. I think I've made some kind of opinion. I'm sure the charges aren't about my closest associates. I'm not gonna say those names. These people got rich because they're in politics, they probably have assets that I can hardly prove, and that's my opinion. And filing criminal charges is completely unnecessary, because in these systems that still work here, it would be a real waste of time for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u27	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš. We are continuing the debate. With the factual remark of Mrs Věra Kovářová, then Mr Farský. Please, Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Minister, as I listened to you, and as I listened to your analysis of the last quarter of a century, it won't do me any good, and I must ask: How did you prove that you were able to work your way into the position of one of the most wealthy people in the country in that contaminated corruption environment of the last 25 years? That's just a rhetorical question, please. I'm just saying I admire you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Farský, then Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u30	Thank you. Mr Vice-President of the Government, when you, in the past, yelled from the position of owner of Agrofert as Pepa from the pub, as reported by journalist Martin Komárek, the current member of the ANO when you spoke in the election campaign, as you yourself called your speech for Hospodářské noviny, it was the expression of a private person. If, as Deputy Prime Minister, you say that you know about four or five thieves in the House, you have only two options - either to mark them or to apologize to the entire Chamber of Deputies. There is no other honest and acceptable solution. So I'm calling you again at this stage: Please say those four or five people, name them. If you said you knew about them this year in an interview for Law Journal on 20 June 2015, then let us know your findings. You are the Vice-President of the Government who has been given the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, so I think that the Chamber of Deputies cannot take such an insult, either from the coalition or from the opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, then Deputy Prime Minister. [[Mr Kučera prefers.]] Okay. Now, then, Minister of Finance, Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u32	Well, Mrs. Kovářová, that's how I did it. When I started my business here, all state banks were, of course, under the influence of politicians, so I didn't even get a loan. So I bet on American Citibank, and I can prove it. I did it mostly by work, and I have a clean table. All I can say is that in the last nine years, my companies have taken 19.6 billion to state budgets, they have received less than a tenth of the subsidies that you so often talk about and whose rules are for everyone. So that's it. All I can say to Mr Farský is that I am a very busy man and I really do not have time to argue about it. Because, of course, the evidence isn't. The 11th commandment of Kalouskův is in effect - you will not prove it. That's the deal. That's how it works for us. You won't. That's the eleventh time, Kalouskův. Here's something. Here you go, 20 years of your boss, Mr. Farský. Here you go. Have you read it? [[He's showing a blue book.]] Have you read it? And did you see how it turned out? Why did the Čunek advertise the 10 miles? In that week under the Internet gambling permit? I don't understand. What did that Čunek say that week? That Kalousek owes KDU 10 miles.? What did he say? I don't get it. No, I said he was being investigated. And what's become of it? Well, he's a genius to turn around. He hasn't been investigated or investigated... And Máchová's got it covered. And when Secretary Válková asked about Mrs Máchová, well, that was - interfering with an independent... prosecutor. Well, somebody ask those NGOs. Mr. Farský, design the whistleblower, we need the law. So people don't get scared and really go to the police and say the iniquities, the corruption. That's what we need. You've got a lot of credit for the adoption of the contract register law. It's kind of a product where you didn't accept live contracts, if it's an anti-corruption product... So we'll just see the new contracts, maybe... Too bad we don't see the old ones, the historical ones. I post them on the web. So I understand. It's my opinion, and I'm not gonna say it. Those who sit here for a long time know that. Yeah? That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u33	Thank you. Mr. Michal Kučera now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u34	Thank you for your word. I find it very hard to respond to the lies and rumors the Prime Minister has put forward here, unfortunately. However, I still have to make a brief comment on some things. Vice-President Andrej Babiš said that the four or five thieves are the ones who are supposedly here for a long time. Well, thank God, I haven't been here for a long time, I'm here for my first term, so he's probably not talking about me. But he also said they were the ones who pushed for something. Minister Babiš, you're promoting five billion out of biofuels for your Agrofert! Are you one of those thieves, then? Probably. And I'd like you to actually say who it is. And I'm leaning towards the words of my colleague Farský here. You're not on the street today, you're not handing out doughnuts today. You're the Deputy Prime Minister today, and you've made serious accusations. So please put him down. If you don't have proof, unless you have strong arguments, apologize. We all remember you wearing those cables in the '90s and lobbying for your biofuels and your Agrofert. So don't talk to us about foreign Citibank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u35	Yes, Mr. Vácha and then Mr. Finance Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u36	Thank you for the floor. Minister, there are such books. I got one on the table, it's not blue, it's white. So I don't know if we're gonna take the evidence that's in the books that somebody's gonna deliberately write to slander each other, or if we're gonna use really verified arguments. I feel like this was the weakest performance you've ever performed in the House. Maybe because you've really been cornered and you don't have arguments and you're not able to argue what you said about supposed four or five wheels here in the House. I was struck by one thing - not just me, but my colleagues. I've been terrified that police officers are calling you in the course of the investigation and informing you of this investigation. That's what you said in the House. And I think that's what GIBS should be dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u37	Thank you. Now Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, then Mr Volný Member. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u38	That's a classic debate about nothing. Five billion is a lie to your Kalousek, and you know it. You're lying again. Or cables. I didn't wear any cables. I've never been to the Chamber of Deputies before I became a politician. You're lying again. Well, that's a useless debate. And the difference between the two books that one was written by the Foundation against Corruption, and the other one was written by a journalist on order, that's all. And I said my opinion, and I'm not going to apologize to anyone. I stand by it. And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u39	Mr Jan Volný now, then Mr Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to see you through to my colleague Kučer. Well, it's very brave to say - everyone remembers wearing cables. Please, who is everybody? It's exactly the same thing you're criticizing the Minister here. Everyone remembers... What is that statement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u41	Now, Mr. František Vácha. Please, the man to whom the word has been given speaks. Don't yell here if you have another topic to discuss in the foyer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u42	Thank you. Now we've witnessed, we've really witnessed what this debate is about. You said the debate was about nothing. That's not true. The debate is about the lies you are making here in the House today and every day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u43	So, MP Michal Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u44	Mr. Volný said "we all remember." It's the same term he presented, and here at this counter your owner Andrej Babiš said. You didn't react at the time, it seems to be okay with him, Mr Volný through the President. [[He's showing the book.]] It bothers you for me. So if we all do, we all do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u45	Member Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. Secretary, let's try to negotiate. A normal person, when he's rudely and falsely accusing someone, he apologizes. You don't want to do this. Let us try to find some logical political compromise. Maybe if you'd paid the $10 million you lost instead of apologizing. [[Glee in the hall.]] Those charitable organizations I promised you would be waiting for them. They don't doubt that you're a gentleman and you're gonna pay for a lost bet, and they keep asking me when I'm gonna send it to them. So that's for charitable organizations at a loss, for a false statement. And then, instead of apologizing to the party archives, you'd like to give us your photo of Ivan Langer's wedding with a signature. And that would be enough for us instead of an apology. That's a decent offer. Minister, please express yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u47	Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u48	It's still a living case. I don't know where you got that. I wasn't talking about a living case. I was talking about that cop who was investigating Kalousek for gambling corruption, the Internet, it was loaded, and how Máchová took it away from her so she would give it to the right cops so they wouldn't charge Kalousek, so she left the police, texted me. It's not a live case. It's closed. I'm looking forward to it, the $10 million. Mr Kalousek was investigated for corruption, as he allowed internet betting to Czech companies and did not allow foreign companies. Why did that Čunek want the money from him anyway? I don't get it. What was that Čunek saying? I'm looking forward to the trial of $10 million. It would also be good to prove to the court the origin of the money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u49	Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u50	I'm not gonna comment on a lying story. However, I ask each of you to tap Wikipedia, the word of the investigation. If anyone makes a criminal complaint against you, and a certain Jarolím of Public Affairs wrote seven a week, for he didn't dedicate a holiday day to you, then you're called to explain. A cop finds out it's nonsense, puts it off. That actually happened, but it's not called an investigation. And anyone can read what a criminal investigation is. I offered the Minister a bet that I would pay him $10 million, or he would, assuming he proved to me that I was being investigated in the sense of the Penal Code - it's on the sound record - and he said "yes, I accept the bet." There's no doubt that he lost it because I've never been investigated in the sense of the Penal Code in my life, and each of you can read the definition. After all, it's Section 161 of the Penal Code. That's not a word-talk. An explanation is not an interrogation, and an investigation is not an investigation. Shavings aren't watches. And transferring the population isn't an investment. That's not a word-talk. You know very well, Minister, that I cannot take that bet out of court because it is a natural obligation that cannot be enforced under the Civil Code. I don't even doubt you'd rather drill both your knees than live up to your commitment. There can't be a trial on a bet. You're just a liar who's still betting, and if he clearly loses according to the opinion of all legal capacities, including the head of the Department of Criminal Law at Charles University, then not only do you keep lying, but you can't even admit to losing and pay the bet. For such people, all they have is contempt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u51	Now, Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u52	Thank you. I would just briefly and accurately repeat what was said in the interview. As Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Andrej Babiš said to Law on June 20: "How many thieves are there in the House? As far as I know, at least four, five." He repeatedly refuses to say who they are and therefore insults the entire Chamber of Deputies from my point of view. As long as Minister Babiš is talking about 200 billion. Robbed and wasted, as long as it fluctuates ČEZ shares, it's all about money. But when Parliament begins to disparage in this way, the Vice Prime Minister goes against the foundations of democracy. That is why I think it is appropriate for the Chamber of Deputies to propose a resolution which is not entirely traditional, but I believe that Members in the framework of the preservation of their dignity and of this body will support it: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Vice-President of the Government of Andrej Babiš to apologise for his comments in an interview for the Law Journal on 20 June 2015 to the address of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u53	I understand, my colleague, that you know the Rules of Procedure as well as I do that this resolution is not possible in the point of reply to the written question. Unfortunately, I can't do that. But of course, there's nothing stopping you from suggesting it outside of this point, which means the answer to the written interpelation. The Chamber of Deputies can only vote on whether to reject or force the Minister or anyone in the government to do the answer again that it is inadequate. In this respect, let me therefore call you to another proposal, which means a new answer. We can certainly vote here, but the experts of the Rules of Procedure will confirm that I cannot vote on this, although I am not questioning your right to propose anything, but that is not really possible at this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u54	Thank you, Mr President. It didn't work out. [[Glee in the hall.]] You were too ready for me. But then I suggest that the Chamber of Deputies reject the reply it received from the Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u55	Thank you. Now, Mr. Koníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance Babiš has a problem with understanding other words than investigations. In his solemn statement, which he submitted as minister to the mandate and immune committee, he stated that he received wages after taxation from Agrofert, a. s., 20 926 998 CZK. Wages are, please, derived from an employment or similar ratio. The problem is that in Act on Conflict of Interest No. 159/2006 Sb. Article 4 (1) (a) is replaced by the following: 1) Public functionary referred to in § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) - that is the Minister - must not (c) be in an employment or similar relationship or in a service, unless it is a relationship or relationship in which he acts as a public official. So, Minister, I'd like to ask, have you really declared a wage of employment or a similar ratio from Agrofert?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u57	Thank you. My colleague Kalousek, then the Minister of Finance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u58	Thank you. Minister, I am the only one who is patient, and I am trying to find a way out. I offered instead of apologizing to those charitable organizations I promised your money to, plus if you wouldn't give us a photo of you signed by Ivan Langr's wedding. If that's not acceptable to you, I'll try one more option. If I took your scandalous statements, you said there were at least four to five thieves in the House, you refused to name them, but you said they were the ones who were here the longest. The longest there are Sobotka, Zaorálek and Vojtěch Filip, and then there are a lot of us, the others. [[longer festivities in the House]] So that's three-- Sobotka, Zaorálek, Filip. [[From the diaper said: Grebeníček.]] Grebeníček. [[From the diaper was "Benda"]] And Marek Benda. So just confirm that it is because you said, "They're the ones who are here the longest." Don't say you didn't say it, it's written. That's what you always say - you even call your own numbers a lie. You also call your own statements a lie. So say "yes, I confirm that these are the names that are here the longest," and we can end this. The answer is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u59	Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u60	A colleague of the Koníček. I don't know why you're opening this place up when I made it clear. I received my last wage in January 2014 before becoming Minister of Finance. You know that. So I didn't have any more wages. And that wasn't a wage, but it was the last deal with my firm. So I explained it to your committee, and I don't understand why you're opening it. And of course, Mr. Kalousek here is lying again, because I said, those who sit here the longest know that. They know. They know. I even used to talk to them about it sometimes. Words are being manipulated again. They know what has happened here in this Chamber of Deputies since the revolution. What all the decisions have been made here and what it's cost us for thousands of billions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u61	There. If no one applies to the debate, we will vote on Mr Farský's proposal under Section 112 (5) which expressed the view that the Chamber of Deputies should not agree with Minister Andrej Babiš's reply to his written interpelation under press 551. I'll check you out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. On the proposal by the Chamber of Deputies to reject the reply of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to Mr Jan Farský's interpellation, we will decide in the vote number 138, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 138 of 90 for 50, against 23, the proposal was adopted. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] The Minister of Finance and the Deputy Prime Minister will have to answer Mr Farský again. That's how the interpellation was exhausted. We will continue with the third interpelling and this is the interpelling of Zbyněk Stanjura to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok, which has been interrupted, so we will continue with it. Mr Stanjura is present. Yes, he's reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u62	Vice-President, please help me, I don't remember exactly what day we discussed this last time. I'm sure it's not a short time, so I'm just going to sum up the basics and try to respond to the debate and the new things that have happened in the meantime, and I'm going to ask the minister... [[Silence for noise in the hall. President: I ask for peace in the House.]] Answers, please. I have asked the Minister for answers to what this government means about opening up the market in passenger rail transport. Basically, I got the answer: everything will be over in the next government, we'll never make it before. That's just where we don't agree on the timing. When I was a minister, I was reminded, so I was ready to make a contract with the best offer on the Ostrava line - Opava - Krnov - Olomouc, which has actually been the only tender so far. Even then the Czech Railways boycotted this competition, trying to achieve a cancellation through the Office for the Protection of Competition. They didn't do it. At that time, the applicable Procurement Act required at least two offers that were without problems. The Ministry of Transport received two offers, of which the second, worse, had a formal failure to declare qualifications, now I do not know exactly in which position, so we had to cancel the tender by law, it was not a decision to consider whether the selection committee or the contracting authority. However, the law allows, and the Minister actually confirms in his reply that it is possible to conclude a contract directly. In addition, it was supported by the fact that it was the best offer in the competition. If the Czech Railways did not enter the competition, it was their problem because they refused to compete. Since such a contract must be notified, I have requested notification in Brussels. But then, under the transitional government, with the support of social democracy and the citizens' rights party, Minister Žák ended the process. Since then, basically nothing has changed and it is roughly - in January or February it will be three years. In addition, I asked for answers to the questions whether of the nearly 13 billion Czech Railways will receive from public sources each year, from two sides, i.e. both from the level of the regions and from the level of the state, whether there is cross-financing, that is, the only line that did not compete, but where there is a competitive fight between the Czech Railways and private carriers, this is the track Ostrava - Prague, whether the Czech Railways are here by chance below the cost price and are not used to cover losses from this line of subsidies, which are on other lines. The Czech Railways told the Minister, who asked for answers, in principle, "Sir Minister, we will not give you anything, it is our business secret." The Minister sent the answer to me, we have it in black and white in the Houses of Press 576. Then we discussed it here. I insist that when a Member requests information that he should receive them, and then we return to yesterday's debate on the state budget, and then we can argue about the interpretation and what the figures indicate, what trends are we going to do about it, whether it's good or bad, but we can't get that information. That is why I wanted this interview to be discussed in plenary, and that is why I will propose, or maybe I will suggest it now, but after the debate is closed, we will vote on it to disagree with the Minister's reply. [[10.30 hours]] In the debate we had last time, the Minister said more frankly than he wanted, for us I think a worrying sentence: "I have no control over the supervisory board of the Czech Railways." I'm the one who responded that it's just not possible. The Czech Railways are 100% owned by the state, although I know that all shareholder rights are not exercised by the Ministry of Transport, but they have three of the seven members of the Steering Committee and the Steering Committee appoints the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board selects the Board of Directors and the Board selects the Director General. It's quite complicated, but who knows it a little bit, it's basically simple. Nothing can be done without the will of the Steering Committee, at least in the long term. Yes, the CEO or board of directors may decide otherwise than the state thinks at that moment, it may happen later, but the state has enough leverage to say no like this, we as the owner imagine otherwise. That this will be a permanent condition, I am told by the Minister's comments on another delicate problem of České dráhy and SŽDC and this is the transfer of railway buildings from České dráhy to SŽDC, I note a bribe transfer. I read in the Minister's statement that he simply notified in Brussels, it had to be, Brussels gave some limits, there was some kind of appreciation on that basis, and the Minister says, I'm slightly paraphrasing it, I didn't take the exact quote, we think it's a good thing, we did what we had to do, but I'm not sure whether the authorities of the business company of České dráhy will approve it. And that, again, is that the state as the owner - it's supposed to be a bribe transfer between two state organisations, it's not a privatisation, it's a thing that's under Brussels' control, whether there's illegal public support. I cannot imagine the authorities of the Czech Railways, whether the Steering Committee, the Supervisory Board, the Board of Directors, or the CEO, would not be willing to accept that. And if they don't, they have one normal option: they leave. This may be the case that the owner has a different opinion than the board of directors, supervisory board or management. This happens in the state sphere, the public sphere, but also in a private company. But the perfectly normal thing is that the owner is right, and if anyone can't identify with it, they're leaving. Nothing personal, no offense, that's just the way it is. No one needs to take the right to his opinion, the way the company is supposed to do business, strategic plans, but fortunately there is no vote on this, the owner is right about this. So such an additional question, whether it is true or the Czech Railways will listen, and if the Minister already controls the Supervisory Board, and if not, I suggest that he exchange it, because it is bad for every Minister of Transport, so that he cannot rely on the will of the owner - and the public perceives that the Ministry of Transport actually controls the Czech Railways. The public doesn't know the details that 4 of the 7 members of the Management Committee are nominated by other ministries. And it's logical - it's a transport area, so who other than the Minister of Transport and his ministry would run it. And another thing I'd like to ask you, and it's got something to do with opening up the market again. I read it, I'm sorry, I don't know what medium it was in, whether it was in the printed or on the servers, that there was a meeting initiated by the Minister of Finance at the Ministry of Finance, which was attended by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Transport, the Director General of the Czech Railways and one of the private entities that operates in passenger rail transport. If that is true and if it is true that there has been a debate on how to compete and what will possibly be done with European money to buy cars etc., then I wonder, Minister, who initiated it, what was the subject of the negotiations. Is there a record from this meeting and you think it's normal? I consider it normal to have a political conflict here in the House, when I say to you: you are slowly opening up personal rail transport. You're telling me to be fair, given my biggest coalition partner: they don't want it. They haven't been hiding it for years either. I understand that social democracy just doesn't want to open up the rail market, and if that were the answer, I understand that, because if there's no consensus, and oddly enough, it's a bigger coalition partner - and I say, they signed up for it in the debate, but it doesn't feel normal for two to meet like this. If it were at least all three of the players who are running today, the big ones, but then we have other smaller lines where even big companies run connections today. I insist we get the data so we can get a sense of it. The Minister rightly prides himself on publishing all contracts on the web. It's okay. So we're able to read, and now I'm a little ironic, for the $5,000 that the Department of Transport bought - today, last year, last year, three years ago. No offense. But if we ask what the Czech Railways are doing with 13 billion public resources, the Czech Railways will write to us: this is our business secret. I was in office for a few days when I signed the decision when one of the private carriers demanded detailed information on how the lines and the loss of lines along the Czech Railways showed. České dráhy defended the teeth of the nails, even then put it in court. I signed it, and I filed the information because I think it's the right thing to do with public resources. And I don't think the lawsuit went well for České dráhy, because the court also concluded that the information given by the Czech Railways to the Ministry of Transport and to the regions on the basis of which they receive public support is simply public. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. This is a similar case. If the Czech Railways do not give it to us voluntarily, it will eventually end up in the court anyway, it will cost the state organization some legal representation and I am almost sure it will force them to publish this information. If there is nothing there, as České dráhy claims, that there is no cross-financing and everything is fine on the Ostrava - Prague line, the more they can provide information there. Such abuse of business information - here were other major battalions of the register of contracts. And when we ask for specific information, we accept it, and I hope that the House does not accept that the management of the Czech Railways tells us: this is our business secret, none of your business. Finally, I will make a motion to disagree - not with what the Minister wrote to me to open the market, I see this as a political reality, but with the resolution of the House, the Minister having more leverage on the Supervisory Board, the Board of Directors, the management of the Czech Railways, so that we can get the information, and when we get it, we can then debate the interpretation of the data, what it means, what it doesn't mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador, and the Minister is claiming his word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, for his questions. I would like to say here to begin with quite strongly, the Ministry of Transport in no way to this House or through the President, Mr Stanjur, any information which is available to him and which is available to us. (?) So it's not like we want to keep secrets from this House, and we don't want to answer the things that are meant to be. I'd like to try to answer all the things that have been said here briefly, perhaps aptly. As for opening up the market, I would like to say that it is not true that we would like to leave the opening up of the market to the next government. We have approved the market opening procedure. The first competition is open. The first problem is what the MP called that the Czech Railways appealed against this competition. We currently have preliminary measures from the UOHS and I believe with full confidence in the Competition Authority that it will confirm that our competition is okay, that we will continue and that we will compete and start driving. With regard to other competitions, other competitions are suspended for one simple reason only. We just want to give the regions a chance in the future, but at these competitions to carriers, so that they can get sets from the OPD2. This programme is in an interdepartmental commentary procedure and will be discussed by the government. The moment he passes, and I believe it will be soon, so we'll move on, and these challenges will continue. I believe that three to four more competitions will be opened or launched in the next and next year or at the end of this year. So it's not like we don't want to. We want to and we will continue to do so. [[10.40 hours]] As far as cross-financing is concerned, I would like to declare here that the Ministry of Finance is dealing with the Czech Railways. We respect the fact that the Czech Railways are a joint stock company according to the law. They are, of course, in an open market and there is information that they call business secrets. On the other hand, we have enough information to know how subsidies are consumed. This information is available. If any of the Members want them, they'll get them from us. Based on this information, we conclude that cross-financing is not taking place and the management of subsidies is in order. I just want to say one thing. There's been a bit of talk here about my statement that I'm not in control of the supervisory board. I meant it differently. Maybe I didn't exactly put it right. I don't want to pull words here, I just want to say what's unfortunately true, and that's the fact that individual supervisory board members at the same time are fully responsible for their decision, and I don't have any spade on them that I would stomp, play superman and say, you have to do it! I, of course, have the opportunity which Mr Stanjura spoke very closely of. I can, if the Supervisory Board behaves contrary to the idea that we want another business policy and other behaviour of the Czech Railways to look like, reconstruct the Supervisory Board. But here I would draw attention to one fact, and the fact is that we have to come to an agreement on the Management Committee. The Steering Committee has seven members, three members nominated by the Department of Transport and other members appointed by the Government on the basis of recommendations from the various departments listed. That means we need to find a consensus in the Management Committee on what strategy is and how to proceed. I'm gonna jump over to the train stations. Yes, I said that I had indications that the current Supervisory Board had problems approving the transfer. I'd just like to point out one fact here. The price and the assessment didn't go through all the notifications. We have a binding opinion from DG Competition by letter telling us that the price that is proposed and is in the opinion that we have received and submitted does not constitute public aid. On this basis, we agreed to hand this material over to the government. He's in inter-ministerial commentary today. We want to transfer the station as soon as possible. There are other views of the members of the Supervisory Board. I also suggested that if they could not identify with it, they had the right to leave. The statement that I had the indications wasn't all there was to it. But I also said that if it doesn't happen, first of all, I'm gonna want to hear from both the Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors what they have in mind about those stations. If I am not satisfied, I will proceed to the reconstruction of the Supervisory Board. I think that the step where the transformation of the Czech Railways should be completed by transferring railway stations should simply continue. I would like to set these things straight. It is not that I accept in any way that the Supervisory Board has the desire to manage the Czech Railways differently than it is in the strategy and in the way that the Ministry of Transport would want it. I would still like to comment on Mr Stanjura's question about the meeting with the unnamed private operator. I was invited to that meeting, I didn't organize it. At the meeting, the carrier told us what he had in mind that the Czech Railways should do liberalization and continue to do other things. It wasn't a negotiation that was done or that wasn't done. That he had the need to present or interpret the meeting differently - it was a meeting where we heard what he wanted, and we told him the legal reasons for our actions. As we proceed further, it is a matter of the Ministry of Transport and in no way a conspiracy. I don't think there's any audio footage from this meeting, but I can give more detailed information on what went down. Anyway, I'd like to say no to the fact that this was somebody's deal with someone. [[he said it wasn't any]] That someone at a meeting like that says categorical expression and threatens, I've gotten used to it. I have enough of those threatening texts from this unnamed carrier. One last thing about the trial. If I've been well informed, unfortunately, the legal proceedings have been right in this case to the Czech Railways, not to the Ministry of Transport regarding the publication of these things. I'd like to repeat one thing. The Ministry of Transport has all the information required to control the quality of the supervision of the funds it gives. I'd like to say it's not just the Department of Transport, but, of course, it's a matter of regions for their part, so they control themselves. This information is available and we will be happy to pass on all the information we have at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u65	Thank you, Minister. The President of Stanjura shall have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u66	Thank you for the floor. The Minister is already an experienced politician. I didn't want any audio footage. That sounds so conspiracyful, I asked for some kind of sound recording. I'd be terrified if you'd get audio recordings from a meeting like this, and if he'd show up in the media somewhere. He was the former first Deputy Finance Minister to record phone calls and then post them. And it's just as unacceptable when it happens to YES politicians as it does to our politicians. I'm not gonna be happy with someone publishing a private conversation just because it's happening to the competition. It's just a bad attitude that I think we have to reject together. I am - it does not seem strange to the Minister that such a course is in finance. Seems weird to me. The fact that they deal with players on the market, they debate what their ideas are, it is completely legitimate, nothing against, but such meetings are mostly planned, they are in the Transport Minister's program, mostly there are more people than the Minister himself, because when he already has some detailed information, of course those who are subordinate to it are able to do so - it seemed only strange to me, but nothing against it. I'm not attacking, I'm telling you, I got it from the press, I took advantage of the opportunity that this is about liberalization. I didn't say the Department of Transport didn't want information. I really don't. But I said the Czech Railways. But the minister says they have all the information they need to check. Okay. Then I'll ask why the Department of Transport didn't tell me what the average total cost per mile away is. I guess I could look it up in the annual reports that I'm going to read the total cost, the number of miles I've traveled, and I'm going to divide it. Is that a business secret? That was the first figure I wanted. Then I wanted the average total cost of one ticket. I'm sure we'll find that again in the annual reports, and the Department of Transport should know that too. And I didn't get the information. Then I wanted the number of miles travelled, which is the figure that divides with the first one. I didn't get it again. I'm sure I'd find it in the annual report, but we're not here to explore the annual reports and make calculations when we have the Ministry of Transport's system for this case. You didn't even need the Czech Railways for that. I didn't even have that figure. Number of passengers carried. Well, that can't be a business secret. And the Department of Transport should know that, and I think they know that. You won't find this in the answer either. That's four out of four. [[10.50 hours]] Average price of the ticket. So I have the receipts for the tickets, the number of tickets sold, I divide, I have an average price. This is a business secret? This information is not available to the Ministry of Transport? I think he knows the total revenue, the number of tickets sold, and maybe he doesn't have the calculation, but I believe that they could do it in the Department of Railways or Economics. And I didn't get that information again! Total sales on the line. If it is true, and I think so, that the Ministry of Transport controls what the Czech Railways show, then it is checked on the lines, and must know on each line what the costs or revenues are. How else is he gonna check? If that's the difference, that's the public service, that's what pays the state or the county, it checks out. And I don't have that information. And the Minister says - everything we have, we've told you. And apparently that's not entirely true. How can you check when the Department of Transport says: I don't know how much total revenue is on the line. Then you can't do that line check. It won't! Because you have to take the costs, the sales, and the rest is the public service that the state pays for ordering. That's the public service obligation. Because if the state hadn't ordered it, he wouldn't have paid, the carrier probably wouldn't have run it. The only thing that could - although I don't see any reason - the total cost of the line broken down, because the total cost we need to know for the control. And I put some stuff in there. But especially the ANO movement commends the register of treaties. I voted for him too. All contracts of České dráhy, when they will buy traction electricity, fees for use of travel, maintenance, cleaning, marketing costs, insurance, operation, catering, wifi, all this will be published. I just wanted them to add it up. I didn't want individual contracts, I didn't want to say this is what Company A adds for the crown, because for the competition, it could be that A will address the company and that they want it for the 90th or for the tenth. I wanted the sum. It'll all be out in a year anyway. Then I guess we'll have to pay someone from our expert who'll get away with it. There is nothing that I don't think can do - and I have listed several lines that I think are interesting, on which we could compare. 'Cause I've been through one interesting thing. The line check is ongoing. The expenses. One thing happened. On the line, which was selected for the first competition, from year to year, after the competition was announced, costs fell dramatically. Therefore, the demand to compensate for the loss of public passenger transport fell dramatically. What's interesting is that money didn't drop the total cost. They were transferred from the line to the line. We didn't spare the crown in that year-round commitment, even though the cost on that line, which happened to compete, had dropped dramatically on that line. And if you're thinking about competing here for 15 years, it's just not a small amount. It looks like-- well, he drives 50 cents a kilometer less. But if you take the number of kilometers, the number of days and 15 years, you're in billions or at least hundreds of millions. And if we're arguing about some money on the budget, then by not competing, the state is losing the money. Minister, I believe that at least you will provide us with the data you must have that the Czech Railways will provide us with the others. We want the sums. I don't even care who adds it, I really don't. That's their decision, management decision, that's where they're competing, so I don't care about the sum of the contracts. I'm interested in the total amount. And now I'm gonna get back to that political responsibility. The Minister is right, I have experienced it too, that he actually proposes only 3 of the 7 members of the Steering Committee. But it has a terrible political advantage that 6 out of 7 are proposing ministers for the YES movement. And one minister for the CSSD. I didn't have that advantage, I had it much more complicated, and I had to look for a match with the coalition partners. You don't have to. Six nominations will be made by you, 3 to the right, 1 finance, 1 defense, 1 MMR, and the seventh one, which is not part of the ANO movement politically, is the MIT. So that can be done. And then I can't imagine - I can't imagine the four ministers for the YES movement telling their 6 members of the Steering Committee that they want to change the Supervisory Board and that this will be a problem. It's a fairy tale! It just can't be. Plus, like you said, you didn't send any of your people, they're the experts, and they're supposed to make the right decisions. On the other hand, I think it's supposed to be people who have some responsibility and some connection, it's a different debate, it's a different place, I don't see anything wrong with it when the minister sends a person he trusts in there, rather than taking a tender to represent the Ministry of Transport in the Steering Committee. That seems completely absurd to me. It's the minister's responsibility. The minister needs to know that he can handle it, that he trusts him, that he has some moral integrity and that he's going to promote the interests of the owner. We don't have to play the competition here at all. That sounds really smiling to me. Something else is the choice of the CEO, but even there, I think if the owner addresses someone directly who he believes will lead the company, why not. Talking about results, not the way to choose. It is much more important what the results are, and not if the person was put into office directly, or on the basis of a small audition, or a big audition. That doesn't guarantee the quality of the management work at all. Although it has been so long, Mr. Minister and I are not so different in what we said, perhaps in other words. Thank you for explaining how you thought you didn't have control. But I also said that the Minister had no influence on the current decision of the Supervisory Board, but it has an influence on the decision to reverse it and whose will to enforce it. So after the Minister's explanation, we understand each other, it's just the same approach, it seems reasonable to me. All today's and future members of the Supervisory Boards and Boards of Directors in a state enterprise must know that they will enforce the will of the owner. And if they don't, if they don't, and they have every right to, then they have to leave. It's all there is to it. I can't imagine in a private company that it comes to a general meeting of management and the general meeting says, "so, this year we're not going to invest, we're going to withdraw dividends," and the director says, "no, no, no, nothing like that, I need money for investment." He can say it, of course, nothing against it, but how long will he stay CEO? I don't think it's gonna be very long, but the competent authorities are just gonna call on them to meet the deadlines that correspond to the statutes or the Commercial Code, and that's it. I'm done so that we can vote so we don't have to go back to that third time, because we interrupted it for time reasons, too, it wasn't for the Minister's absence. I propose to the House to disagree. I believe that if the Minister votes that he votes with us and that we will receive the information that is lacking there enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u67	Thank you. The Minister won't respond. I, therefore, should someone else no longer enter into the debate, end this debate, and, as I have noted, Mr President, the proposal for your answer is that you do not agree with the reply sent. Am I to perceive that you want me to unsubscribe and register again? Okay. Then I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a re-registration into the system. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. Let me repeat, the motion for a resolution is that Mr Zbyněk Stanjura disagrees with the response to his written intervention. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this motion for a resolution to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 139, there are 91 Members, for proposal 36, against 25. This motion for a resolution has been rejected. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies that came to me. Today, between 11 and 13 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr. Jiří Skalický apologizes. For health reasons, Mrs Miroslava Němcová apologises for the whole day. Today, between 10:30 and 13:00, Ms Jana Hnyková apologizes for the hearing. Furthermore, between 9.00 and 13.30, for reasons of work, Mr Rom Kostřica apologizes. From 12 o'clock to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mr Miroslav Kalousek apologizes, today from 14.30 to 16 o'clock for working reasons, Mr František Vácha and from 16 to 18 o'clock for personal reasons, also Mr František Vácha. [[11.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should now focus on points 204, 192, 193 and 194, and then on unnegotiated points from the report block, proposals and more and more from the contract block, first and second reading. We'll discuss point 206 this afternoon, which is oral questioning. This is Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u68	Thank you. Ladies, gentlemen, I'm sorry, I won't keep you, just a moment, but I want this over with quickly. Mr Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM MEP's club, was sharply opposed to my listing of potential thieves, which was designated by Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, with Mr. Sobotka, Vojtěch Filip and Zaorálek for the longest time. Mr Kováčik has argued that he has been here as long as he has, asking for an apology or a million crowns. [[Laughter from the left side of the courtroom.]] I think that this is an entirely appropriate request and, therefore, I humbly apologise, in particular from the innate greed of the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u69	I'm asking if anyone wants to come out and propose a change in the program. In case... Chairman Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u70	Thank you for the floor. I don't have the exact information, it's my fault if the Organizing Committee has already approved the schedule for the first half of next year. But if we do it the way we do it this fall, then don't even approve of it, it's completely useless. Last week I quite intensively communicated with my colleague, President of the Social Democracy Club, when he wrote me an idea of a government coalition - I thought at the time of the government coalition - about how the House will run this week and for the next three weeks. We've come generously to meet, even the plan is going well. On Tuesday, what the government coalition wanted was done, Wednesday, what the government coalition wanted, today we'll see, we've only got three or four points. And yesterday, like all of you, I received an invitation to an emergency meeting. It's an emergency meeting again. The original information was: we do gambling, first or second reading. I thought we could do the first reading at a proper meeting, so be it, legislation insists hard on its own, even if it is wrong. So we said, okay, we understand, we as ODS didn't stop the gambling law from being discussed, why not. Then we're going to do one more point, and now we have a proposal for 17 points of an emergency meeting. We don't have a schedule, we know we're gonna end up on Tuesday, that this meeting is gonna start sometime tonight, because I'm gonna allow myself to predict that the school bill debate isn't gonna be for 30 minutes. That means ten minutes after the 33rd meeting, the extraordinary one will begin. We have no idea how the next weeks will be going, which are committees and MPs. Colleagues have seminars lined up, they have rooms, we have other things in the program. Then the presidents of the MPs get so upset when we say there's chaos. It's chaos! Again: What's next week? What's next week? Are we going to negotiate in committee weeks? Will it be the fifth? We'll act on the fifth, I accepted that. We planned a big political event for the sixth to know in a week that we will not only act on the fifth, but also on the sixth, because we need to discuss, for example, a treaty at an emergency meeting. Well, don't be mad at me, my dear colleagues, and I'm telling you that this extraordinary meeting is not going to go so smoothly. As the woods are called, they come out of the woods. I will come to the grémia meeting on Tuesday with the fact that all opposition parties are actually saying: well, the proposal was communicated with us, so we are happy to accept it to witness a major dispute between the two largest coalition clubs. That's it, that's not it, that's it, that's not it. Is it chaos, or is it chaos? It's still chaos here. What's it gonna be like that week - the first committee? How is he going to be a plenary on the first committee week? And when Thursday sits down, I say I want an interview, since we're supposed to be here on Thursday at the committee week, not 17 points. You can't really make a deal like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u71	With priority rights, Mr. President Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u72	Thank you for the floor. I originally wanted to do the program, but I will respond to the performance of my colleague Stanjura. You are telling us that you will use all the options given to you by the Rules of Procedure to block some of the points that the House is about to discuss. For example, you have announced for six months that you do not want to and will not allow us to discuss the e-booking of sales law at third reading. We've witnessed the blocking of the Lottery Act and others. And so when we use the Rules of Procedure and convene an emergency meeting, which is the standard instrument that you, too, have been using in the last parliamentary term, and very often, you consider it chaos. On Tuesday, the program will be exactly like that, in my opinion, if you don't block it as we discussed it. This means that an emergency meeting will be opened, the first reading of the Government's Lottery Bill will be discussed, which is the way the opposition has advised us not to push forward the parliamentary proposal. And the assumption is that the meeting will then be adjourned, because the second item of the extraordinary meeting is the second reading of this law, so it is clear that, in the meantime, there must be a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u73	Furthermore, with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u74	Chairman Sklenák looks like it's always been. It's not true. Do you really remember an emergency meeting in committee weeks? Repeatedly? I'm not talking about an emergency meeting institute. I'm talking about you using committee weeks to logically... It's not easy to plan a seminar. And you canceled it to those colleagues - a colleague of the Zahradník last time, who has long been preparing a meeting of the subcommittee, you threw his work away. You're doing the same thing now. My Members do not know what will happen in committee weeks. We're coming from a schedule for committees. And you're gonna score 17 points. Not three points to a gamble we wouldn't have a problem with. And then you'll say, that's obstruction. What obstruction? Bring some statistics. We said there'd be obstruction if there was a service bill. Well, they were about 90 minutes. Are those obstructions? You guys signed up for the deal. The fact that we're telling one law that there's gonna be obstructions, we haven't gotten to it yet. So let's see how long they're going to be and how it's going to go down. One single law. And I don't want to repeat the debate about how long our proposals have been here. So you're taking advantage of all the possibilities of the Rules of Procedure, and you're holding a meeting. You just keep changing it. What were we communicating about last week? Are we going to be here on November 6th, or are we not? Should we cancel the 5th seminar, or shouldn't we? When are we supposed to cancel? Fourth, when these people are ready from the outside to come here? Because you assumed that the debate would take an hour, and it took two or three, so understand that we have to negotiate. That's what the House of Deputies meetings are for, not committee weeks. On the other hand, if there are no committee weeks, we will not be able to discuss, so the House will stop completely, because there will be no committee resolution, it will not be discussed. Take your pick. It'll catch up with you eventually. Well, don't blame me if we're negotiating here for a week, we'll de facto confirm it on Tuesday. Yesterday I asked to see the proposal in advance, then all I did - I didn't even get it, all of a sudden. The only thing I got was to look it up on the Internet. And that's negotiation! Here the President of the Faltýnek said: At each meeting there is an opposition window. So I kept the statistics... You're just not telling the truth, Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna call you boss, you're just wrong. The meetings were - we have 34, you called 35th, so calculate from those 35 meetings where there was some opposition bill. But we're new, unlike the old, even the Social Democrats and the KDU, it's us who push the opposition window through every meeting. Too bad that's not true, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u75	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u76	Good morning, colleagues. I understand this debate. It is true that we are trying to find a compromise within all the clubs in the House. To the opposition windows. After all, all of us who sat on the grémia and put together the program this week, so we agreed and accepted the request of the opposition parties, in fact, that each of the parties should place one of their priorities there, which has happened. We assumed, for example, that the debate on the state budget would be a little shorter and that the laws could be discussed in time. Unfortunately, it didn't work. We can do statistics on the performances and the content, if some things haven't been repeated ten, fifteen times, but that's not important, everyone has the right to say their point of view, and I don't want to criticize it. But we'd just be objective in this debate. As far as the statistics referred to by President Stanjura are concerned, I will only say two figures. It is not statistics, it is only a comparison of the same period over the previous term and the current term. As far as extraordinary meetings are concerned, there have been 16 in the previous parliamentary term and 13 in this parliamentary term, so it is not some dramatic difference and it is roughly similar. Last time, it was three more. About the time, the breaks, and the obstructions. I don't think there's any point in commenting. I would rather say that, as far as the emergency meeting is concerned, the programme proposed shows that it should be essentially 27, where the priority is, in fact, the government proposal, the press 626, the "free gambling," and then 5., 6. and 13. It's coming from the proposed program. It's probably true that we didn't say it explicitly, but that's how it comes out when you apply. So just so briefly my reaction to the extraordinary meetings and the statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u77	Thank you. President Stanjura, Mr Laudát after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u78	I don't know if I should laugh or cry. Such statistics are useless, Mr President Faltýnek, through the Vice-President. To do something, you have to say whether it was triggered by the government coalition or the opposition, the emergency meeting. An extraordinary meeting is one of the instruments of the opposition, legitimate, so that at least the points that it wants are discussed in the draft programme. So 13. [[unintelligible]] And most importantly, that's what I was talking about, how many of those extraordinary meetings were in committee weeks? I do not object to extraordinary meetings. It's a smile when a government coalition brings them together - now we've got three running, right, and we're gonna have four meetings starting Tuesday, if I'm not mistaken. But okay. But neither of the four meetings was convened by the opposition. Okay, they can be convened by the coalition, it's unusual, but in order to have statistics, I'd have to say how many oppositions have provoked, how many coalitions, because it's more logical for the opposition, because the coalition has a majority, and it's also logical for the program, and how many of these meetings have been in committee weeks. That's what I'm criticizing, not that... But I know what it's gonna be like on the fifth and sixth. Well, on the fifth, we have to do it in three hours so we can end the sixth. And if we don't make it on the fifth or sixth, then we're gonna look for another term other than the 13th. Because you don't have the data. So you guys called it in and you didn't even tell us. Now, thank you so much for letting me know officially on the microphone. But that doesn't have to be true either, we know how it works here. So when you call an emergency meeting to the Houses of Weeks, it's smiling when a government coalition summons them, which shows that they can't handle something organized, but why not? Do not touch the Members, but also your, as well as the Government Members, they are preparing seminars and have planned actions. And you, because something... One day someone forgets to make a proposal - let's just say the whole thing. If you guys had an emergency gambling meeting, the government was on Monday, it's, like, 400 meters from here. If they brought it in on time, we could have had our first gamble reading at this meeting. That's right. So somebody made a mistake. Okay, we accepted it, an extraordinary meeting. And look how the extraordinary meeting has grown. I'm just telling you in advance not to expect that if we get here, we're gonna want to leave fast. We will debate very thoroughly and very closely. But we're gonna want the same thing on those committees. And if the committees are unable to discuss the budget chapters, we will be under pressure again, we will be blamed for any obstruction. But debating the budget for, like, six or seven hours, if that's what it was, I don't think so. [[unintelligible]] If anyone repeated their appearances, they were government officials, and it's logical. There's nothing wrong with that, I'm not going to say: you've already said that once, so you can come back to the microphone in two weeks, we've heard it before. All I'm saying is that we came in on Tuesday and what we said didn't apply, then we're weeks, and today it doesn't work again, and you announced it to us in style - find it on the web, there's a meeting called. [[unintelligible]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u79	Thank you. Now in the order as they came forward, first Mr Laudát and then Mr Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u80	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like the Gremium to actually agree on some presumably fundamental changes. Because what are we exposed to? The coalition is unable to agree on real priorities, and then it does things here, that even what is arranged, then it tries to push its points individually. That makes the agreements very complicated the overall timetable. Second, it's not possible, or it's very bad when...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u81	I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, but I'm asking you to keep your voice down so that you can understand what's being said here. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u82	For another, the Gremium was warned that it was extremely inappropriate for various events, seminars, to be convened, to the House, to discuss certain matters with the professional or lay public at the time when the House was running. This brings not only technical and organizational complications but also security risks. The House is set up that nothing happens here at the time of the House's meeting. All club presidents heard it on the grémium. If you call meetings into committee weeks in such a completely uncoordinated and ambush manner, then at that moment you exhibit organizers of events either in the House or outside the House, exit meetings etc., huge gambling and loss of seriousness. In a huge way, you are damaging the reputation of Members, the reputation of the House as a serious partner. Even in the regions of different companies, different regional politicians, municipal, municipal politicians are not curious about any chess that two, three, four club bosses perform here. More like two. And what complicates life, and I think we need to think about it, is the new Rules of Procedure, and that is the renegotiation of other proposals again, which means that the law, the proposals actually return to each committee twice. And by this committee week, if you guys start doing more action, even without it, it's kind of chaos, it's just starting to get out of hand, so you're just causing a huge problem. The problem of discussing opposition proposals, I suppose, or I think, will not be resolved until it is always fixed, for example. one day, and let's talk about the extent to which, regardless of the discussion of government proposals or coalition proposals, it will be stipulated that this day will simply be discussed by opposition proposals. [[11.20 hours]] I've already warned the Chairman of the Mihola Club that I don't see any other solution. And let's talk about how much it's going to be. Is it gonna be one full day at every meeting? It's gonna be two days? But other than that, I don't think we're right about this unless you start acting in a coalition by giving yourself real priorities that you won't be bringing in rumourary laws that I don't think are part of the House's negotiations either. And if you don't make the timetable so that at points you obviously know they won't pass so easily, you don't start with them. The last time you did it was totally useless on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u83	Thank you. Another registered priority right is President Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u84	Colleagues, colleagues, I didn't criticize anything here. I'm just stating some facts, and I don't even want to argue in this debate. On the statistics, I apologize, Mr Vice-President, to your colleague Stanjur for not telling. The 16 extraordinary meetings were the ratio of 9 government coalitions, 7 opposition. For this time period comparable. And in this parliamentary term of 7:5. So it's the same ratio, roughly. But maybe the majority of you who sit here for a long time will remember to be objective. On 3. 11. In 2011 four meetings of the Chamber of Deputies took place on one day and two other meetings were negotiated. So I guess it was a nice fall. And on top of the chaos in the House, when we're doing statistics on the chaos that was here in the last parliamentary term, and we all know how the chaos ended in the end, those notes are pretty smiling. But I think we're going to do better statistics so we can be more specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u85	Thank you, Mr. Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u86	I never said we were complete lambs. But ask the chairmen of the opposition clubs at the time if we have consulted them on the timetable. For everyone to know, but all the MPs, not just part of the selected government, as it will be. That's two different things. The fact that we had sharp political clashes, I don't remember it, November 3, 2011, but so we did it, it was definitely a House week, so we did six meetings in one day. I don't know who called them anymore, I'll look into it, I don't really wear that in my head. But mostly I criticized, and you avoided the answer again, that it was in the committee weeks. If it's today, tomorrow, so be it. We know what happened in the House week meeting about the post office and the volný, and I don't know what else was there. But that was in the House of Week, so no offense. We had no action other than being in the House, and we are prepared to discuss the points that will be put on the agenda. And we know it won't be our way. About yesterday. Well, I don't know, I guess the KSČM colleagues will know that they were the first, logically, of the four. Seven minutes or nine? I don't know anymore. I think 18.51 has begun. And such talk, you could have acted until midnight - well, we couldn't! Because we've been doing the budget for six or seven hours. And that's a serious debate. And if anyone really participates in it, then it is hard to have the strength to argue in substance for four more hours on four bills, none of which are completely simple. And we have yet to fully accept that, between the budget and the opposition, we have put such a common, parliamentary proposal on the Great Friday was essentially common. I think, with the exception of members of the KSČM club, it was signed by Members of all clubs. So leave the committee weeks for the committees, leave the parliamentary weeks for us to negotiate in our regions, variable weeks, when the House, it is common, it cannot be surprised that the House is acting on a variable week. Don't touch the other weeks! That's all we want. That's all we criticize. Just to follow the schedule. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u87	Thank you. And Prime Minister Faltýnek's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u88	I have one last reaction from you through my colleague Stanjur, with that Thursday. You are right, however, as far as Friday is concerned, this year's statistics from the beginning of this year on Friday were only one committee and, in particular, the Public Administration Committee. Otherwise, on Friday, no committee has ever sat down this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-001-205.u89	Thank you. I ask if anyone is claiming priority rights or wants to propose a change to the programme or a modification to the programme. I don't see anyone. So the way I see it, we're going to start talking points the way we planned. Before that, I'll read the apologies that have arrived. From 12 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová apologises. Mr Martin Sedlář from 9 to 11 a.m. today for work reasons. Furthermore, today from 9 to 12.30 pm for work reasons, Mr Pavel Plzák apologizes. I'm opening the first point of today's meeting, and that's
