ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-007-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, as amended, and some other laws /house print 460/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Zdeněk Syblík to take the position at the rapporteur's table. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-007-023.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled is aimed at partial adjustments in the current general regime for the management of state property. It aims to create conditions for more efficient use of immovable state property and to speed up the process of dealing with unnecessary property, highlights the preference of standard transparent methods in bribery transfers to non-state entities and extends the control powers of the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, some current needs of application practice are reflected in the proposal. In particular, it is proposed to establish a legal basis for the gradual process of concentrating selected state assets, namely real estate at this stage, with the specialised organizational body of the State Office for State representation in property matters. This should strengthen its role in the management and management of the State's property, taking into account the network of territorial workplaces, extensive practice and expertise it has. The central register of administrative buildings should be an effective tool in implementing these changes, which would thus complete the current executive phase of its construction and operation. Those changes fully correspond with the Government's programming statement and represent an important inter-step for practice. At the same time, the existing State Property Act adapts to the necessary extent to the changes associated with the recodification of private law. The draft law has undergone a rather complex and long process of preparation, and the changes in the law itself on state property and other selected laws constitute an interconnected whole whose unity would be desirable to preserve. I would also like to remind you that this is a repeated attempt by the Government to amend the State Property Act in a situation where the discussion of the original government proposal has not been completed in the previous parliamentary term. I therefore believe that the current legislative act will be successful. The Ministry of Finance is prepared in this respect for all necessary cooperation. The effectiveness is proposed on 1 January 2016, with the exception of the part of the transitional provisions for which the entry into force should exceptionally take place on the date of its publication, as it should ensure that the process of aligning jurisdiction is accelerated with the land and the constructions set up within the State as one owner. At the same time, it is desirable that the very period of legisvakance for familiarising with the changes to the amended laws should be sufficient. I therefore call for a 30-day deadline to be reduced in the framework of the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-007-023.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and I ask that the rapporteur for the first reading, Zdeněk Syblík, present his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-007-023.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The aim of the proposed bill is to make the management of the state's property more efficient, speed up the process and increase transparency in the management of the state's property, especially real estate. An effective instrument in implementing those objectives should be a central register of administrative buildings, a non-public information system, the operator of which would be the Office for State representation in property matters and the administrator of the Ministry of Finance and which would serve the organisational units of the State for the efficient and economical use of buildings and other related immovable property for activities in the performance of the State's functions. The draft law shall in particular affect the provisions relating to fundamental obligations in the management of property, the handling of property between organisational units, transfers of ownership, other forms of treatment and treatment of claims, other rights, securities and other matters. The draft law was accompanied by related amendments to the Law, namely Act No. 97/1993 Coll., on the scope of the Administration of State Material Reserves, as amended, Act No. 26/2000 Coll., on public auctions, as amended, Act No. 238/2000 Coll., on Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, Act No. 201/2002 Coll., on the Office for State Representation in Property Matters, as amended, Act No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic, as amended, and Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic. About the amendment of Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, as amended, stood in the basis of considerations in addition to the interest in strengthening transparency and control of the state's assets and the problem of the time factor in the process of approving contracts by the competent central administration in the management of the state's assets in the general regime of the law, in particular when selling them, in connection with the interest in the overall acceleration of dispositions with unnecessary state property and the efficiency of this process. The need to address these aspects of the management of state property was undoubtedly supported by the government's programming declaration, in which the government identified as its priorities, among other things, the rationalization of the state's management and the audit of the state's assets and, in the context of ministerial priorities, the central record of the state's assets, in the first phase of the immovable property, together with its central management, which should result in the rationalization of the portfolio of immovable property and optimization of its use. The original bill was discussed in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, it was also discussed by the Working Commissions of the Government Legislative Council on Financial Law, Private Law, Administrative Law and also by the RIA Regulatory Impact Assessment Commission. After completing the comments, the draft law on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations and some other laws are presented without contradictions. This text of the draft law does not directly implement the law of the European Union into the legal order of the Czech Republic and the bill is not contrary to the law of the European Union. Effectiveness is proposed for changes in the law and other laws united on 1 January 2016. The reason for this is, in addition to the interest of sufficient legisvacancy, the need to ensure a reasonable period of time for the adaptation of processes in certain selected organisational units of the state, which normally dispose of relatively large volumes of unnecessary assets, typically the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, and the change consisting of the gradual transfer of this agenda to the Office, including from the point of view of their financing. Given all these circumstances, I ask you to release this bill until further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-007-023.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate for which I have no application yet, but I see Mr Faltýnek's application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-007-023.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to report for a detailed debate with a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-19-ps2013-027-04-007-023.u7	Okay. So there was a proposal in the debate to shorten the deadline of 30 days and we will record it. Who's next for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. And since there has not been a motion for rejection or return, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. So we will decide in the vote number 106, which I have just begun, and I ask who is the guarantee committee for the budget committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 106, from 149 in favour of 114, against no one. The Committee on Budgets has been approved as a guarantee committee of the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this press. Furthermore, the Organizing Committee did not propose ordering this press to other committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees to discuss? I don't see anyone, so there's nothing to vote on. We will therefore vote on the reduction of the 30-day time limit proposed by Mr Faltýnek in the debate, in voting order number 107, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of shortening the time limit for discussion in the committees. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 107, 149 in favour of 74. [[versus 22]] The motion was not accepted. I can therefore say that the Chamber of Deputies has ordered the Government's bill according to the House's 460 press to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee and the deadline for discussion remains under the law. That concludes the point. [[The noise in the hall. Members shall be required to carry out voting checks.]] So I'm looking to see if anyone's checking the electronic log... Is this Mrs. Zelienková? [[Member Zelienko from the post: Yes.]] So I'm gonna wait to not repeat the mistake we made earlier, and we're gonna look at the minutes, the electronic minutes of the vote. [[Member Sklenák and some others are checking the scythes. After the check, no one objected to the outcome of the vote.]] Well, thank you. I am therefore of the opinion that this is a reality, the law has been ordered to the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee and the deadline is maintained under the law. I thank the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, thank the rapporteur and I conclude this point. Let's continue with the point.
