ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u1	108. Government information on the security situation and immigration policy I ask the appointed member of the Government of the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec to take the floor, and the honourable lords of the Member and Members of Parliament, I ask for peace of mind! Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start this debate on migration and aid for refugees by stating that the Government of the Czech Republic has dealt with this issue for a long time, and it is also necessary to say at the beginning of this debate that despite the existing risks in the world, whether it is a conflict in Syria, the departures of people from Eritrea and other territories, the conflict in Ukraine, the situation still seems peaceful for the Czech Republic. As of 31. 12. 2014 was registered 451 923 foreigners with allowed temporary or permanent residence in the Czech Republic. This is about 10 300 more than in 2013. According to this figure, cizinec account for about 4 percent of the population in the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, more foreigners currently live with the status of permanent residence, namely 251,000, with a transitional status of approximately 200,000 people. This is the result of the economic crisis, when the arrival of foreigners in the Czech Republic has been more or less stable since 2008. The number of foreigners from countries outside the European Union is 266 thousand, of which almost two thirds, i.e. 67 percent, reside in the territory of the Czech Republic with permanent residence. The number of foreigners from European Union countries is 185 thousand. However, I want to make it clear here that the citizens of the states in the European Union are not obliged to register and this number may not be entirely accurate. Among the most represented nationality are the citizens of three countries: Ukraine - 104 thousand, Vietnam - about 57 thousand, the Russian Federation - about 35 thousand. From the countries of the European Union they are citizens of Slovakia, which we record in the Czech Republic approximately 96 thousand, Germany and Poland always after 20 thousand. [[16.40 hours]] Newcomers are approximately 15,000 a year, with more than half coming to educational activities at Czech universities or other schools. For comparison, between 2006 and 2008, up to 50,000 foreigners arrived annually, i.e. $50,000 at the time, currently 15,000. However, the area of migration is very dynamic. In the previous years, we prepared for a possible and possible wave of migration from Ukraine. At present, it appears that, for example, the migration wave from Kosovo is very important, where citizens of Kosovo are trying to reach their target country, which is Germany in most cases, through the Czech Republic. Since 2003, when 11,400 applicants for international protection have been registered, the use of this statute, i.e. international protection, has declined every year. At present, however, things are different. There is an increase of around 64 percent and these are primarily problems associated with the crisis in Ukraine. The largest group of applicants in 2014 were nationals of Ukraine, which accounted for 44.6 %. In 2014, a total of 650 thousand applied for international protection in the European Union. persons. Even here we record an increase of about 40 percent. The number of exposed persons for the illegal crossing of the European Union's external borders on the basis of FRONTEX's supporting documents is 278 thousand. This represents 2.5 times that of the previous flights, e.g. In 2011 it was 141 thousand, in 2014 it was 104 thousand, in 2011 it was primarily due to the so-called increase. To the Arab Spring. The countries in the following refugees are most represented: Syria, Eritrea and the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. The vast majority of illegal migrants are trying to get to Europe through the so-called the sea border, i.e. primarily through Italy and Spain. However, we are currently picking up attempts by these illegal migrants, e.g. the territory of Hungary and other countries. The Czech Republic must now clearly define itself against further immigration debates, both at the level of the debate in the European Union. The Czech Government and the Czech Republic have clearly declared their readiness to help countries directly affected by migration waves, be it Turkey, Jordan and other states. She's ready to help financially. The government has allocated up to CZK 100 million to programmes related to refugees coming to these countries. I would also like to remind you that the most people have been on the run from their home since World War II, especially because of the conflict in Syria and Iraq, where more than 4 million people have left their homes today. The Czech Government is preparing for all possible risks associated with refugees, whether they are adopted, how to take care of them, but we refuse to discuss the so-called. compulsory quotas. I just want to remind you that the Czech Republic currently has a very calm Muslim community on its territory, which is about 20,000 people, i.e. If Germany had accepted 140,000 refugees from the conflict in Iraq, it would have meant an increase in the Muslim community in Germany to around 5% if we had accepted 5 or 10,000 people, it would have increased the community by up to 50 percent, i.e. We see this as a certain security risk, which needs to be debated and very cautious. As part of our projects, I would like to highlight the MEDEVAC project, which has been supported by the Czech Government for several years. It is a system where the Czech government sends both funds and its doctors and material humanitarian aid to countries where conflicts take place. At the same time, we are ready and in the past we have helped some citizens of these countries to heal in the territory of the Czech Republic. For example, in the context of the Ukrainian conflict, injured people were transported here from demonstrations in Ukraine. These people are being treated. If they can be cured, they return to their home countries. It is currently the relocation of a small group of about 15 children with their families from the Jordan region. This process has begun. The Czech authorities are currently selecting suitable candidates for this programme with the Office of the High Commissioner. I will inform you, if necessary, at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, how this project has progressed. However, we are not yet able to estimate when these children should reach the territory of the Czech Republic, the process is only at the beginning. Also running a project approved by the Czech Government, which is a project for Volyňské Bohemia in Ukraine. This project is currently being finalized and according to my information, the first Volyň Čech should reach the Czech Republic sometime after 15 March. The government has set criteria that must be met. We take these criteria very seriously and the representative offices will require that the government criteria required be met when communicating with these applicants. Of course, with migration, when it is our duty to help citizens who have been in an emergency or who simply need to be helped under European law, so as far as refugee status is concerned, we are currently capturing refugees in the Czech Republic several hundred a year, so if we do not succeed these people so-called. Returning to a country where they crossed the Schengen border, we already have a legal obligation under European legislation to take care of these refugees. For this purpose, the Ministry of the Interior manages and operates refugee facilities. The current spare capacity of these facilities is about 700 seats. Of course, we take migration as a security risk and place great emphasis on ensuring that safety parameters are met for people who want to move to the Czech Republic, i.e. These applicants are going through a rather deep scan of the security forces, whether it be the police, whether it be the BIS and other intelligence services, primarily the Office for Foreign Relations and Information. As far as other security risks are concerned, the IOOZ and other police forces, of course, also assess how some communities behave, how they risk the security risk of the Czech Republic there, and share this information, i.e. within the framework of the security system not only within security forces in the Czech Republic, but also within the framework of signed international agreements with our partners both in Europe and in other countries with which the Czech Republic has signed international agreements. At present, documents were submitted to the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman in Jordan as preparatory documents for the preparation of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and Jordan for police cooperation. They have been handed over to the Minister of Interior of the Jordan Kingdom and we expect this treaty with this country to move forward and we will be able to accept its wording in the Chamber of Deputies, I hope, this year. Information from the Jordanian side is of course important to us in receiving possible refugees and their movement on the Czech territory. That is all, my fellow Members, and I am, of course, ready to answer in the course of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u3	I thank the Minister for his opening words. And before I start the general debate, I have a note here. So first Minister Svatopluk Němeček apologizes today from 19:00 for family reasons, Mr Leoš Heger apologizes today between 16 and 17.30 for work reasons, and Mr Josef Novotný apologises for today's meeting from 18:00 and Mr Jiří Skalickýý apologises today from 17.30 to 21 for work reasons, and Mrs Věra Kovářová apologises today from 16.45 to 21 for work reasons. Thank you. I am opening a general debate, which was the first to be heard by Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u4	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. This item was requested to be discussed in the Chamber of Deputies a month ago, just after the critical unfortunate events in France, Paris. It shows how time flies quickly and how it is not a mere statistic, as we have heard from Minister Chovanec from the mouth, that it is playing against the possible debate that would have a strong charge with a message for our citizens. How we simply wasted this time. I am convinced that the debate is to be conducted in a different direction from what we have now heard. It is certainly okay for us to get statistics on how many refugees are coming from which countries, how many countries are asking for asylum in our territory, what roughly can expect us - and I did not understand the Minister's speech - what can be expected for us in the coming months. Whether this increase will strengthen or not strengthen how we want to stand up to asylum policy, how we want to stand up to citizenship policy, how we want to tighten up these rules precisely in order to ensure that we have what is written on the board, the security situation of the Czech Republic, in relation to the immigration waves that are on the move. Minister Chovanec was undoubtedly right that this is the largest wave of migrants that has now flooded the world after World War II. Millions of people are on the move, only some countries are picking them up so far, and the situation doesn't seem to be easily resolved. According to Europol, for example, which admits that the threat of terrorist attacks in Europe is now so high that there is no way to capture all possible risks. We have here a report on how in Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands there are up to 20 sleeper terrorist cells possibly with 120, maybe 180 members ready to attack. In this context, we certainly do not only think about what happened in Paris, because we each have a memory longer than in the horizon of one month, we have been able to compare the attacks in our minds since at least 1980, which affected the countries of all continents, except perhaps Antarctica. All the countries that have ever faced Islamic terror have, in their own way, paid for it by not missing them sooner or later. As Minister, I could also read statistics, I have prepared it, which countries since 1980 islamists, whether it was the Taliban, Al-Qaeda or now the Islamic State, have attacked how many thousands of victims they have committed. But we need to get to something else. We need to discuss what the Czech Government can really do for the safety of our citizens in our territory, how individual departments are prepared for their task. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs - who is not here, but they are two decisive figures in this matter - how they consult with the President on foreign policy, how they reach the same positions as those presented at international level. I have the impression that, while we have tried several times here in the Chamber of Deputies, we have tried to instigate a debate on our country's foreign policy, the government has not supported this debate, and if, and only with assurance, it will try to consult the hrad, that it is more or less working, that the President is in tune and interested in the government's views, but then it comes to the issue and we are confronted with what it looks like in reality. Here in the Chamber of Deputies we hear how they consult and tune in at the Castle, and then we learn at every single exit of the President beyond our borders that nothing is aligned and that both NATO partners and partners from the European Union are astonished at us and they do not know what to do with the Czech Republic. So my question is to the Prime Minister, how he really accepts his constitutional role, the constitutional role of the government, which is responsible for the President's actions, how he wants to cope with this constitutional role, without moving away, however hard I understand that he has it, because within social democracy there is still a strong wing that supports President Zeman, and the Prime Minister must dance between the eggs to keep it going. But I don't care what social democracy inside wants, can or must fight. I am interested in the security policy of the state and I am interested in whether the Prime Minister is able to fulfil his role, i.e. the person responsible for the foreign policy of our country and does not refer to the Czech Republic as the country of question mark as a country of chaotic, unreliable and unperspective. I would also like to know the answer to the question from the Ministry of Defence, what is going on with the export of weapons from the Czech Republic. See if they can't come into the wrong hands. Whether we really control exports so that it cannot serve terrorists. We have been communicating these questions at our press conferences 14 days ago, three weeks ago, and I expected the Prime Minister to speak in the opening of this debate. I do not mean that the Minister of the Interior is not a competent person for this, but if this is the state's security situation under the critical conditions that we are now witnessing, I would expect that there will be a clear, understandable word first for the Prime Minister, who will introduce us to the general framework, and then for the various ministers, as we have asked them, to say what they have out of their jurisdiction, of their competences, ready and what they want to do. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister of Culture how he views the activities of Muslims in the Czech Republic, how what we read from some of their texts that claim that they would like the Czech society to be Islamised, to develop the good things our culture contains, but to be in line with Islam and that the Czech culture be gradually inspired by Islamic values, whether the Ministry of Culture is somehow opposed to this, what it says, how it deals with Muslim communities, how it has an overview of them. While we read in the media that there is chaos between them, that some are rather such, I fear to say directly militant, but we see it from some of their representatives' speeches, namely Mr Abbas, for example. in a television performance, or there are those who claim a moderate wing, however much they themselves say in their texts that there is no such thing as a moderate Muslim, that it is a contradiction. So I would like to hear something summing up, some attitude of the Minister of Culture, if not for anything else, because the initiative of some Members of the Chamber of Deputies, the Úsvit movement, has been announced here, who want to tighten up the law concerning registration of religious societies. The minister replied, but in the press, not in the Chamber of Deputies, that it is actually a call on the wrong grave, because there is no need for such a thing, because the law all the risks mentioned in the Dawn movement are eliminated by the law. I would like to hear him tell us here about the special rights of religious societies and churches in order to, for example, be able to do so. working in the army, in social services, in education, they could indulge etc. So how precisely this is modified today and what all Muslim communities in the Czech Republic would have to do to obtain this registration. I personally know this because I have dealt with this subject, but I think that a part of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies would accept this explanation with gratitude, because it would mean a much broader information for them so that they could have a more comprehensive view of this issue, and at the same time the Minister would have fulfilled his obligation to the public. [[17,00 hours]] I would also like to hear from the Ministry of Finance how it stands up to the BIS report, which mentions strange flows of money that work between some representatives of Muslim communities and some foreign entities and some states from the Arab world. He has this information. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister of Finance how he stands up to this. Whether it consults and helps the BIS to clarify the origin of money that some Muslim organizations in the Czech Republic, for example, have. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should tell us when we have already heard the statistics on how many refugees there are, how money will be provided for social programs for these people in the future. Because it is not possible to imagine that we will learn here that there are 700 seats in some facility or former hostel or shelter, but this also includes some money, and we should know roughly what outline of money could be in this year, what can be expected next year. Then there is a special question of our appearance in foreign forums, how individual ministers defend the Czech Republic, how our opinions are understood. Minister chovanec said here a moment ago that the quotas are clearly passed. I'm grateful to him for that. I thank him for this, because I have heard some answers from some representatives of the Czech Social Democratic Party in December and they have considered possible refugee quotas, which would be divided between the individual Member States of the European Union. And even in the context of social democracy, or maybe it was just a proposal from Minister Chovanec, I don't know, a national referendum that could decide whether or not we would receive refugees, which clearly rid the government of its responsibilities to rule and manage things. I need to answer these questions. What does our appearance look like abroad? I would like to imagine the Prime Minister or one of the competent ministers coming to the meeting, I can imagine, but I would like to know from you what it looks like when they ask you: And what did the President mean when he said it was the flu in Ukraine? What did he mean by the Security Council to pull against the Islamic State? How do you respond to that? You're saying, "he's the president here and there, we don't even take him seriously"? Or are you saying, "No, he's the head of state, and what he's going to say is holy, and that's just how it is, take him behind a coin"? I would like to know what the real policy of this government is and how it defends it in foreign forums, as well as in relation to the fact that the President of the Republic speaks hot and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is making it sound, sometimes also the Prime Minister, as it was in the United States of America, and they call it clean. So that's a few of my little points on the subject. I would like to point out that the MEDEVAC programme, which was mentioned here by Minister Chovanc, was established in 1993. It was for governments with the participation of the Civil Democratic Party. It is the treatment of those affected in conflict countries that it is intended to help. It was extended under the ODS in 2012 to medical aid to children from Syrian territory. Perhaps for the fairness of the debate, this would be beneficial to add, so that we know exactly what the government has ever done and what it hasn't done. So many of my notes. I hope that the debate will develop so as not to forget all aspects of this. If I were to mention one for all, and which the Minister neglected, I would say how it will be with the free movement within Schengen. I'm very interested. Whether foreign negotiations on European Union soil have reached a conclusion or an extraordinary meeting is convened, when it will take place and with which position the Czech Republic will go there. Thank you for your attention for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u5	Thank you. That was Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue this time with priority rights. First, with priority rights in the debate, Mr. Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. In addition, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka reports with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked myself some questions here by Mrs Němcová, through Mr President. I'll try to answer that. I do not think, my colleague, through Mr President, that he has wasted some time here. In the meantime, since the events in Charlie Hebdo in France, this issue has been discussed by the Security Committee, the Foreign Committee, the European Committee and representatives of the Petition Committee have attended a visit to the refugee camp. I was at a meeting of the Security Committee that discussed with representatives of our services - Security Information Services, Military Intelligence and the Office for Foreign Relations and Information. The discussion was very interesting. There were representatives of your political party. I think that after we spent three hours there, we left, at least most, believing that our secret services were already engaged in the problem and devoted themselves to it long before there was a problem in France. The nota bene government of Bohuslav Sobotka was the government that demanded their position and their information from the Security Information Service and other components to radicalize the Muslim minority in the Czech Republic far before this problem arose in France. The issue of quotas is the position of the Czech government. The Czech Government, and I have said this here, has clearly said: We want to help above all in the countries where refugees first wander: Jordan, Turkey and other countries. There we are ready to send funds, send our specialists. We are ready to debate quotas, but it is not an option for us to be our position, which we so-called headlessly accept. That's all. It is also fair to admit that there is currently a debate on the protection of the external borders of Schengen. Immediately after the event in France, representatives of six large European countries and the United States met, and the position of these representatives in the position of interior ministers sounded clear: the European Union must better start protecting its external borders, particularly the sea. That's the debate that's going on. I had the honour of representing the Czech Republic at the Forum of Interior Ministers in Riga and our position was very simple. We are a country that, fortunately, does not have a large Muslim community that radicalizes itself. We are countries that are not related to foreign fighters, we do not register any such, but we consider the problems of our partners as our problems. That means we're taken, at least from my point of view, as a very good and good ally in all these activities. We're not a country of the second or third category, that's not true in any way. And the fact that the Czech Republic has gone forward in a pro-European direction is now proving to be very wise in the debate in the implementation of the Service Act and in the fact that we are succeeding in agreeing with the European Commission the parameters under which programmes in the range of 660 billion will be launched. Crowns. I do not think that the Czech Republic is currently a hit man in Europe. The opposite is more true. Regarding legality and the law, if we are prepared to tighten up laws concerning the residence of foreigners in any way. Yes, we are. We have a novel prepared and the amendment should give more space to security files in the Czech Republic in the so-called security scan. You talked about how the Ministry of Finance would, I don't want to speak for him, react to transfers of suspicious money. If you would notice, this information has been in the explanatory report for about two years. The transfer took place. But it's old information, it's not new information. The government responded by approving the possibility for the Security Information Service to have insight into both bank transfers and cell phone statements. In her own way, the government responded to this. We're ready for the debate. I offer all the committee chairmen involved, if they want to continue the debate, we are ready to come, we are ready to hold the debate, and we are prepared to answer your questions very patiently and carefully.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u7	Thank you, Home Secretary Milan Chovanc. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic will now perform Bohuslav Sobotka. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u8	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I came to the Chamber of Deputies today to participate naturally in this debate, which is being held here within the framework of the Information of the Government on the Security Situation and Immigration Policy in the Czech Republic. I can confirm that the fight against terrorism has become a priority for the whole of the European Union. And it's not just about the terrorist attacks that took place some time ago in Paris. It is about what is happening today in Syria, what is happening in Iraq today, it is about how many citizens of a number of European Union countries are taking part directly in this conflict. It is clear that the Czech Republic is not immediately exposed to the terrorist threat at the moment, but we have been included in the fight against terrorism among the partners of those countries of the European Union that are directly affected by this threat. As I have already said, the fight against terrorism has become a key issue and in the coming months the European Union will focus on strengthening the implementation of the existing measures and strategies that we currently have on the European Union. The point is not only to remain on paper, but to become realistic in the policies of individual Member States of the European Union. I am thinking, for example, of a strategy to combat the phenomenon of foreign fighters, which was already adopted at European Union level in October 2014. The necessary counterterrorism measures were discussed last month, both by foreign ministers, at the Foreign Affairs Council on 19 January, and by our colleagues at the informal meeting of Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs on 29 January, which was also mentioned by the Minister of the Interior in his speech. The debate on this subject also continued at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday, and I suppose we are prepared to do so, and one of the key elements of the current informal European Council, which will be held this week on 12 February, will be the issue of strengthening the coordination of individual European countries in the fight against terrorism. The European Council will give the already agreed initiatives a formal framework in the form of a concrete decision on how to proceed. These decisions will then direct the further work of the European institutions and Member States at the highest level. As regards the external dimension of combating terrorism, it will also be considerably deepened at European Union level. The EU Ministers of Foreign Affairs agreed to strengthen cooperation and political dialogue with the countries of the Middle East and North Africa, as well as the Arab League, the Islamic Cooperation Organisation. We consider sharing information on effective international cooperation as key elements in the fight against terrorism. We also agreed with our partners within the European Union that the European Union should develop a communication strategy aimed at Arab countries and Arab communities in the European Union, which should strengthen action against the radicalisation of these communities, particularly on social networks. As a result of the terrorist attacks in Paris, which reminded us once again of the imminent danger of radicalising certain parts of the European Union's population as a result of the activities of the Islamic State, there is no way to avoid strengthening internal measures within the European Union. The Czech Republic supports strengthening checks on risky persons at the external borders of the European Union and, above all, we also support the creation of a Union system for sharing information on air passengers. This Directive should be urgently unlocked in the European Parliament. Common action within the Union system is a key part of our ability to identify and detect suspected terrorists in time. I must also say that, on the other hand, we see very sensitive interventions in Schengen rules in the form of proposals for controls at the internal borders of the European Union. We consider free movement within the Schengen area to be one of the cornerstones of European integration, and we should do everything, as the Czech Republic, to maintain this freedom despite the aggravated external and internal security conditions. Of course, the key source of terrorist threats is unresolved and ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa region. It is therefore essential that the Czech Republic and the international organisations, of which we are a member, primarily the European Union, increase their commitment and efforts to resolve the conflict, particularly in Syria, Iraq, but also Libya, Yemen, Somalia, Nigeria, Afghanistan and Pakistan. These are all countries that, very often despite the long-term efforts of the international community, provide infrastructure facilities today that can provide support either in the form of financial, organisational, training, arms supply for possible terrorist structures for their attacks on the European Union's soil. I think it is obvious that in the process of stabilizing these regions, the stabilisation of these countries, which are very often among those countries that are torn down by civil war, which are among the countries where state structures have collapsed, where the state does not fully control the entire territory of these states, is evident that Muslim states, especially Arab states, must also be very heavily involved here. It must also be noted that the fight against terrorism and extremism is certainly not a fight against Islam and against Muslims. This is not a conflict of civilizations or a conflict of the West with the East. I think creating this false impression is precisely the target of terrorists. Their aim is also to contribute to the radicalisation and fragmentation of European society by carrying out such brutal attacks as we have witnessed recently in Paris. It should also be stressed that the large majority of the victims of the Islamic State or other terrorist attacks in the world are Muslims. So this is not a question of clashing civilizations. This is a question on the ground of the European Union of conflict between those who seek to uphold the law, the existence of the rule of law, respect for the principles of democratic culture and democratic establishment in Europe, and those who violate the laws, those who commit violent crime, which often takes the form of politically motivated or religiously motivated terrorist attacks. As I said before, the Czech Republic is active in combating terrorism and promoting cooperation between European countries. I want to remind you that our security forces at all levels are integrated into sharing information that helps prevent and detect terrorist activities. We confirmed this again after the attacks in Paris and again our security forces were in current, direct and intensive contact with their partners, not only in European countries. The Czech Republic supports strengthening cooperation between all relevant European institutions and we will support the implementation of strategies that should improve the chances of combating the risk of terrorist attacks. I would also like to remind the Chamber of Deputies that the government has now approved the new security strategy of the Czech Republic, the security strategy of the Czech Republic 2015. We have thus updated the security strategy, which was last updated in 2011. The new text of the state's security strategy places terrorism, whether in the form of international terrorist organizations or lone fighters, among the most important threats to the security of the Czech Republic. [[17.20 hours]] This new security strategy also specifically addresses the issue of returnees from conflicts in the Middle East back to Europe. The topic of the returnees does not directly concern the Czech Republic, but the topic of the returnees is already affecting our neighbours, it concerns Austria, it concerns Germany, it may also concern Poland to a certain extent, or it is a danger that is up to date in the region of Central Europe, and we must prepare ourselves for this situation when the participants of conflicts in the Middle East return to their home countries in the European Union. The priorities of the security strategy are also measures against terrorist financing, against radicalisation and recruitment, the issue of population protection, the protection of critical infrastructure of the state and, of course, the protection of individual targets that are potentially vulnerable to terrorist attack. In line with the European Union's counter-terrorism strategy, the Czech Republic is taking systemic, preventive and legislative measures. I am very pleased that the work on the new security strategy of the Czech Republic was launched far before terrorist attacks in Paris took place. It's not a conjunctural change, it's not some unthinkable last-minute reaction, but it's the result of our government's annual work. I am very pleased that the government identified these risks even before the assassination in Paris, and that we are gradually preparing and gradually preparing our country for a situation where unfortunately outside the European Union, but too close to the European Union, there is an escalation of security risks. Unfortunately, this is the situation that we must be counting on, not only today, not only in terms of the short-term current situation, but also in the medium term. From this point of view, it is very important that the Czech Republic is not only a member of the European Union, but that the Czech Republic is also a member of the North Atlantic Alliance. Naturally, we are fully integrated into all activities in the North Atlantic Alliance. I would also like to remind you that it was our government that adopted a new strategy for financing the armed forces months ago. We decided in connection with what began to take place in the east of Ukraine, in connection with the fact that we were signaled that the Czech Republic was not fulfilling, and it was a year ago when we were signaled that the Czech Republic was not fulfilling its obligations as part of the membership of the North Atlantic Alliance, so in connection with these signals we decided to strengthen the financing of the Ministry of Defence budget in the coming years. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence's budget for this year has already been increased and we expect that it will be increased in the following years as well as in the mandate of this government in order to make up around 1.4 percent of the gross domestic product by 2020. This is the first important measure we have taken and concerns strengthening the external but also internal security of the Czech Republic. As the Vrbětice case has shown, even in terms of strengthening the Czech Republic's internal security, it requires better capacity and sufficient capacity of the Czech Army. This is a key systemic decision, which I firmly believe will be reflected in terms of the state of our armed forces in the coming years and will also be shown by being able to integrate into the capacities of the North Atlantic Alliance, for example in terms of the forces of the very rapid response that are now being built on the ground of the North Atlantic Alliance. If we did not have enough strength, if we did not have enough resources, the Czech Republic could not participate in these activities. We're ready for this. I am also pleased, and this is the second aspect, and it concerns external security, after all, the Chamber of Deputies has also agreed that the government has also approved a multiannual framework for the operation of our soldiers in foreign missions. I would like to remind you that we have not withdrawn from Afghanistan, but we continue to expect our soldiers to assist there in the training and training mission, and I would also like to remind you that we are solidly involved in Mali, where there is also a conflict with Islamist fighters. Thus, within the framework of the strategy of participation in foreign missions approved by our government and which has already received the support of Parliament, the Czech Republic is an active country. And when I return to Homeland Security, I cannot ignore another important fact and that is the stabilization of the security forces of the Czech Republic. We started the first steps with the Police of the Czech Republic, which means our goal is the personnel and economic stabilization of the Police of the Czech Republic, because among other things within the Police of the Czech Republic there are also units on which we will have to rely if the Czech Republic is exposed to an acute terrorist threat or God forbid to a terrorist attack. There are units of specialized forces that must be sufficiently staffed and technically prepared if anything happens. If the police were to continue to be ruined by large-scale cuts, if it were to be torn down by personnel disputes, as it has been in recent years, we could not guarantee the security of citizens here as a government. And I would like us to guarantee the security of citizens. That is why we have prepared the budget of the Police of the Czech Republic for this year, which is stabilizing. Another point concerns the security services. As you know, and the Home Secretary has also mentioned, the government has tabled an amendment to the law that strengthens the powers of the security services. I want to confirm that the government will also submit a draft of legislation this year, which also strengthens the control of the intelligence system in our country. I fully understand the argument and I am ready to sign under it that, together with strengthening powers, it is also necessary to improve the system of security services control in the Czech Republic. The government will come up with its proposal and stand for a debate with the opposition parties, because if we want to set up a better control system here that will be more credible or stronger and complement existing parliamentary control, this should apply for a long time and it should go across the political spectrum and across the parliamentary periods. So we want a debate on strengthening intelligence control. But it's not just about strengthening control or increasing powers. We could endlessly increase our powers, but if we don't increase our technical and personnel capacity, it won't do us any good. I return again to the question of the returnees - the returnees from the battles in the Middle East. Yeah, we're not really in any danger. But what problem is that the returnees from Austria who return to Austria, the returnees from Germany who return to Germany, cross our borders and develop activities in the Czech Republic? We need sufficient capacity for such a situation, and that is why we have also started a debate within the government and within the coalition to strengthen the army in the coming years, as we have strengthened the police, in order to similarly strengthen the security services economically. The aim is to modernise their technical equipment so that they can actually be partners of their colleagues in developed countries, such as France or such as the United Kingdom, and at the same time to strengthen their personnel capacities a little, so that they can face the risks currently posed by the threat of the Islamic State. I am convinced that the government is doing so responsibly in these areas. We have prepared a new security strategy for the state, which has already been approved by the government. We stabilized the army's budget and gave it a solid budget perspective so that it could strengthen its capacity. We are stabilizing the Police of the Czech Republic and preparing a plan to improve equipment and strengthen capacity and secret services in our country. This is what I think is absolutely concrete practical measures that should serve to guarantee citizens that the government will do everything within its competence not to make the security situation worse in our country with regard to the risks that are taking place in the European Union or beyond the borders of the European Union. [[17.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I could, of course, speak for a longer time, I could speak in more detail about the individual measures that are being taken in the European Union, what is being prepared for the European Council, but I think it is also important for the members of the opposition parties to be given the floor, so that there are not only members of the government. But, of course, I felt it important not to leave the Minister of the Interior alone in this debate. As this is, of course, not only a matter of the competence of the Minister of the Interior, it concerns the work of the Prime Minister, but also the work of the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and, in part, a number of other members of the Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u9	I thank the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka for his speech. Before we proceed with Mr Petr Fiala's priority right, I will state the apology that I have run out of. Mr Karel Fiedler, Mr Jan Volný apologizes from 17:00 to the end of the working day and from 17:30 to the end of the sitting day of Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. I now ask Mr Petr Fiala to take the floor in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u10	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the Prime Minister wants to give room and opposition so that she can express herself, as he himself said. However, I am particularly glad that he has spoken here because we have long tried to hold discussions on immigration policy, the security situation of the country, and of course on foreign policy, which we have failed for a long time, and I think the Prime Minister has avoided this debate in a way or has avoided it. So I'm glad he's here today and he's talking to us about these things. However, I have tried to listen very carefully to him and to some of the questions that have already been asked in the opening words of Mrs Němcová, and to some of the questions that are actually hanging in the air, we have not heard any answers. I have learned a lot about where the European Union meets, which institutions meet, that we are members of the European Union, that we are active members, that we are active members of NATO, that we have increased defence spending, but about the concrete positions of the Czech Republic in the negotiations within the European Union, in the negotiations of other institutions, that I have learned very little about these concrete steps. I will once again return here to the question that was raised at the beginning of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I mentioned earlier at the press conference. That's our not taking part in the Munich Security Conference. It's not trivial at all. We may be taking part in some negotiations in certain Union institutions, and there we listen to what is going on, but the key conference at a key moment, a key moment in terms of the security of European civilization, Western democracies, is simply not participating in our government. And I think it says a lot about our foreign policy and the sense that this government has for the real dangers that exist in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many dangers, but there are two basic dangers. It is a conflict in the east of Ukraine and it is, of course, what is happening in the fight against the Islamic State, virtually. what is happening in terms of an aggressive attack by Islamic terrorism or militant Islam, towards Western civilization and specifically towards the countries of the European Union. In the last two days, the whole Western world has been tensely following developments around the situation in eastern Ukraine, diplomatic negotiations, activities that took place there by Chancellor Merkelová, President Holland and others. The whole Western world, Western democracy, participated in the Munich Security Conference, because that is where these issues were discussed. Who was missing there was the Czech Republic, which is extremely affected by this situation. We are still in geopolitical space, which may be a possible larger misunderstanding, or a lack of understanding between the West and the East - and I deliberately use these words, which appear again in the foreign press - we can be significantly dangerous by this misunderstanding. What the Czech Government is doing, the position it has, why it does not participate, why we do not comment on this in any way, I have not heard the answer from the Prime Minister. I consider this a serious mistake, a mistake that threatens us. Never in the last 20 years, and now I quote from foreign media, never in the last 20 years has the misunderstanding between the West and Russia been as great as it is these days. The Czech Republic is silent, pretending that nothing is going on. The second danger, which also extremely affects us, is radical Islam. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat a number of my arguments here, which I bring to the public debate, but I will mention only one thing. The fight, or the threat that we face from radical Islam, is not only a threat from the point of view of the Islamic State, which is progressing in an extremely brutal way in the Middle East, but also a threat that we have within the European Union, with which we are immediately - immediately! - confronted. And I understand that a number of politicians have a major concern that after the events in Paris and after further information on what is happening, what the Islamic State is doing, so that the wrath of the population does not turn against Islam. I understand, I understand, and of course I'm the first to say that Islam and militant Islam are not the same and so on. However, we must not close our eyes to the fact that in the name of Islam, there has literally been hell on earth in many Asian and African countries, and that it is the terrorists who threaten us, who mostly claim radical Islam. And our greater concern than for anyone to happen to think something bad about Islam, we are always able to explain this difference between political ideology, political religion and religion, so it must be - it must be! - the safety of our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a really serious problem here. We're not just being attacked by an outsider. And even this danger of being attacked by an outsider is not to be underestimated. Especially if the Czech government doesn't even know whether to fight the outside, such as the Islamic State, or not to fight actively. The President thinks we're supposed to fight, the Minister of Foreign Affairs thinks we're not supposed to fight, and so on, so I can continue. But the problem is that Islamic terrorism, virtually. militant Islam has its bases among the citizens of the European Union, and that is already a problem that we must face and do something about. And here it is very important what the Czech Government is holding in the search for these common procedures within the European Union. What's that attitude like? What this will mean for our citizens, how we will safeguard security, but at the same time preserve the freedom of our people. What the Czech Government thinks about this, what it will do in negotiations in the European Union. I have heard no answer to these questions. [[17.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are other problems that we have to face. We are the most domesticated - socially but also nationally - the most domesticated society in Europe. It has a lot of advantages of course, but at the same time it has one disadvantage. It puts us in a dangerous lethargy and the feeling that nothing can happen to us. Moreover, thanks to the action of right-wing governments, we have one of the more strict asylum policies within the European Union, so that the stay of foreigners seeking asylum in our territory is regulated in a reasonable way. From this point of view, we feel safe. But we're not safe. Let us look at comparable countries where society is also homogeneous, where there is a complex language where refugees never chased, did not try to live in those countries, and suddenly these countries have refugee problems. To give one example, let us look at Hungary, where 35,000 people applied for asylum each year in 2013, twice as many as a year earlier, and where the number of asylum seekers is growing radically year-on-year. This is a good example from a point of view, in order to warn the Czech Republic that the influx of immigrants and asylum seekers can increase dramatically and that we must somehow prepare for this. Mr. Interior Minister Chovanec here spoke of some specific measures. For this I am glad, and I am also glad to be clear, and for the first time in my view, he clearly said for the Czech Government that the Czech Republic will not agree with the ideas of Brussels officials to divide immigrants into European Union countries by quotas, which would be extremely dangerous for the Czech Republic. However, I think that the government still owes us answers to key security issues, that it still owes us, above all, an answer to how it often does not participate in all those negotiations, unfortunately, but if it participates in what position it will take, what the Czech policy is, what we want to achieve in the EU at all on these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, without knowing these answers that we will have a clear position of government, we cannot convincingly defend the security of our citizens and the security of our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u11	I thank Mr Petr Fial. Before we continue our discussion, Mr. Benešík, with a factual remark, then with a priority right, Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura, then we will return to the duly registered ones. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, I believe that in the previous contribution there was a call for Parliament to have a greater opportunity to discuss with the government, if any. to control the government about its mandate before negotiations not only by the European Council, but also by the EU Council, which are individual formations by strategy. This is a matter that I have been thinking about for a long time, and I think, following the example of some other European committees and, of course, even after a meeting in the Bureau of our European Committee, i.e. with President Fiala, we would consider the possibility of inviting individual ministers to our meetings before the key important meetings of the various formations of the Council of the EU, so that we know their position, e.g. in such an important debate as asylum policy, but also for example. in some negotiations on economic affairs before Ecofin. brát us take this as a kind of commitment, a kind of joint call for the Chamber of Deputies to have this control through its committee. From this point, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, who regularly attends our meetings and regularly informs us of the positions of the government, about the Prime Minister's mandate before the European Council meeting. I think that for tomorrow's meeting he is excused for serious reasons, but for those of you who would like to know his mandate before the European Council meeting, our committee will continue tomorrow at quarter to nine in the morning, and we will certainly make it before the House starts at 9 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u13	I thank the President of the Committee on European Affairs and for keeping time. Mr. President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u14	Thank you for the floor. President Petr Fiala has already said a lot, but let me ask the Prime Minister a few questions precisely to find out what the position of the Czech Government or the Czech Republic is. Conflict in Syria. I wonder what the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic's opinion is, who is a partner for the Czech Republic or the EU for negotiations on the situation in Syria. Who's a partner in Syria? Whether or not we see such a partner and what we will promote within the EU, whether we agree with our allies on a partner, because we certainly need a partner there for dialogue. The second thing, in a rather long speech by the Prime Minister, I lacked the name of one state, our ally in NATO, and this is Turkey. I had the opportunity to be in the delegation with Mr. President Hamáček, we were representatives of six clubs and we had very interesting meetings with the President of the Republic of Turkey, with the boss in Parliament and with many others. You may not all know this, but 2 million refugees from Syria are officially registered in Turkey, and it is estimated that the total number of refugees is 4 million. Turkey is our ally and care for the millions of refugees is worth about 5 billion. U.S. dollars a year. And I ask what is the position of the Czech Republic. What EU financial assistance to Turkey will we promote, because if Turkey does not take care of those refugees, Europe will take the lead. That is certainly true. And there's a huge refugee wave at risk. I think it is in our interest to help Turkey economically. Just to give you an idea, five billion. US dollars is the total trade balance of the Czech Republic with Turkey annually. I think it is in the interests of all of Europe that our ally, Turkey - so far the European Union, if I remember exactly the number, should not be higher than EUR 200 million. So let us often consider the senseless European programmes that are running not only in our country, but in many other countries, against the EUR 200 million. President Fiala spoke of it. In that speech, the word Ukraine, the Ukrainian crisis, did not once speak. In recent days, the whole democratic world is really following proposals, diplomatic activities, and we are hearing proposals from our Minister of Industry and Trade, which are completely in contradiction with what Europe, the United States and our allies are promoting. And I ask what is the position of the Czech government. Did we join the sanctions because we had to or because we wanted to? I want to hear it. Whether we wanted to or whether we had to. Or we'll still hear it's not working, it's not working, etcetera, etcetera. The very serious question mentioned by the Prime Minister is returned. I want to ask you what the position of our government will be when one of the Member States comes up with a legitimate proposal that they will either confiscate or take citizenship from the returnees, and they will be 100% heard by the so-called. Human rights defenders who will protest. And I ask, even though it doesn't concern us, fortunately, what will be the position of our government. Will we encourage our allies to take a hard step towards these people, including the loss of passports, the possibility of travelling or the loss of citizenship? And the last question is, the Prime Minister was talking about the Ministry of Defence's budget, etc., and then we're going to read when we get the result of the 2014 budget, I think the Minister of Finance published it on January 5 that last year the Ministry of Defence was unable to exhaust 4 billion. your budget. How is that possible? [[Minister Stropnický off microphone: This is very simple.]] It's very simple, says the Secretary of Defense. Why does he want more money if he's not able to drain what he's got? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u15	Thank you. We will now continue the debate. First of all, Mr Matěj Fichtner's factual comment. I can't see, I think it's a mistake. In that case, Martin Stropnický, Minister of Defence's priority right. Minister of Defence of the Government of the Czech Republic Martin Stropnický. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just made a brief remark on what has just been said. Of course, it wasn't the slightest problem to spend the money. It's hard to spend money economically. It came from the vast majority of the fact that we didn't want to sue into disadvantageous contracts, that the companies were very unusual for the condition that they even say about us now - I take it as a flattery - that we are squabbling for money and so on. And the volume, of course, was large. That was the main cause. Then there were some others as inability to compete with some things, like Law 137, which basically paralyzes some things, and our partners buy alliances according to completely different rules. So there were several reasons. Still, if I can afford to add a little bit to the security situation, even though the Prime Minister said relatively a lot from the area of defense. We were really among the most active countries at the Wales Summit, I must say, from the point of view of responding to budgetary insufficiency. Of course, we've had a fall in one of the two, out of the three largest of all member countries in the last few years, so we're still not so good at it, but everyone appreciated the change in trend. But by far not all fellow ministers of defense of the alliance countries have succeeded in their governments or in their parliaments to increase their budgets. Even in France, the entire general staff wanted to resign precisely because of the lack of budgeting. But it wasn't just in this respect that we were trying to be active members. It was also in that we offered as a second country immediately units of very rapid deployment in the number of 150 men. The project is already being prepared in detail in order to be fully operational in 2015 in the autumn and in the 16th year. We, for example, were active on Georgia's issue at the last meeting of the Ministers of Defence of the Alliance. Georgia, it didn't fall here, obviously it's not the very first line, but it's a very serious situation. Georgia is trying, is a very active partner of alliance. He has the largest contingent in Afghanistan, he has a very strong contingent in Africa, too, and the situation in Abkhazia and South Ossetia is not easy at all. And actually, if we had learned more from the situation in Georgia, for example, we may not have been so surprised in Ukraine. So it's just what we are - I say it quickly - trying to draw concrete conclusions from this summit. I would like to say that there is a defence law in the Government's Legislative Council, which should make it much easier for us and make it more flexible for us to create advances that we cannot do without. Not even a much larger army than the Czech army can do without backup. I'll be very happy to defend him here in front of you. But it already allows us to recruit three times the number of candidates for the military profession this year than last year, and we want to increase that number every year. This year, fifteen, the following year, eighteen hundred and the other two thousand soldiers. As far as I'm concerned, just in a hurry, Munich, just for themselves - the defense ministers weren't part of the auditorium that was supposed to be there. As far as Syria is concerned, just a brief remark that you probably know that we have, like, by far not all the functional representative offices that actually carry out some of the agendas for our allies, for the United States, which appreciate this very much. As far as Turkey is concerned, the question is certainly very legitimate and I agree with that, as has been said here. To some extent, my surprise was not discussed at the last meeting of the defense ministers, or just in some detail. As far as Ukraine is concerned, I think that, in the end, the French President had to say it under some kind of pressure, and it certainly had some kind of political subtext that he broke through some kind of hypocrisy, as the crisis is called, aggression - it's war. I wouldn't worry about that word for myself, even if it's unpleasant. Fortunately, it's a local war, so far, but I think that Europe could have been a little braver here. Once you say the word, you start working with it and realize it, maybe you start acting a little differently. Last sentence. It's no cheering on my part, but I think all those who doubted sanctions should question their conscience. It is one of the few ways to put pressure on the Russian Federation. And if I read correctly today, there will be food stamps. And I really do not appreciate that people have food problems there, but those sanctions somehow forced Russia to act and we believe that it will bring some result in the coming days, finally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u17	Thank you, Minister Stropnický. Before we proceed to Mr Stanjura's further factual remark, I will read the apology that has been received. From 5:30 to 20:00 for reasons of family, Mrs Lorencová apologizes. Now a factual comment from the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u18	Thank you. I'd like to add one more question. I think Minister chovanec was talking about sharing information among the secret services, which is certainly a matter that supports the entire political spectrum, that is not a problem. However, I would like to see the Czech Government again, if we are discussing this, to share this information with Turkey, for example. She was informed that the bomber's co-worker was traveling through Turkey. During our visit with President Hamáček, Turkish officials simply said that they had no information, so they could not intervene in any way. Now, on top of the budget, don't let the minister slip away so easily. Please don't take this as an opposition attack. When I talk about it with many government MPs in the gallows - they, of course, will not go out of loyalty to the government on the microphone - they see it as a serious problem as I do. Although there's a complicated law, but you've been there for a whole year, and I think there might have been a meaningful use of the money, and unfortunately, it didn't. So don't just think of it as an opposition scream. Indeed, believe that there are many who share the same view among coalition MPs. I understand they're not coming to the mic in the debate. But it's not teasing the opposition, it's more about the fact that there wasn't a lot of money. And if we don't exhaust them, then what are we complaining about?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u19	Thank you. We will continue the debate according to the Members duly entered. Now, Mr. František Laudát. Mrs Anna Putnová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, when I asked for a separate point, my concerns were quite fulfilled that what you are about to hear will not be so much compatible with the previous discussions. I have announced here that I would like to draw attention to one specific group and convince you, or ask you for some generosity and helpfulness in this matter, and I will even propose a House resolution. Dramatic power twists in a number of Arab countries have produced evil that has not been parallel since World War II. You'll probably agree with me that the symbol and executor of this evil is so-called. Islamic State, ISIS. His psychopathic followers are killing their victims right in front of TV cameras, a phenomenon that the civilized world has long not encountered. There are millions of people on the run who survive in the poor conditions of refugee camps. Our Republic is involved in humanitarian aid. I think he's giving $100 million to help on the spot, and the government decided in January to accept 15 seriously injured children who, according to the Interior Ministry's staff, would sooner or later die, and their families in our territory. [[18.00 hours]] I don't think I'm gonna be popular about it, but I think it's much more in our options to do. Past governments have helped to receive refugees from Serbia, Burma, Kosovo, etc. effectively without public halas. And who knew about this? But today everything is a problem, xenophobics and populists have harvests. It is this group of xenophobes and populists in our society that may need help as urgently, albeit of a different type, as refugees from Syria and Iraq, even if they are not in danger of their lives. For the highest level of assistance that I consider the acceptance of people and their integration in our territory, integration in our society, so I consider it necessary to answer two fundamental questions for the highest level of assistance. First, which part of the refugees is the worst in terms of the current situation and their future. Secondly, which immigrants are most likely to successfully integrate into our society, including their offspring. To answer the first question, I will allow myself a small excursion into both the ancient and recent past, and perhaps you will find a slightly different perspective than Prime Minister Sobotka said. There has been a Christian tradition in Syria and Iraq for nearly 2,000 years, considerably longer than in our countries. Over the centuries, however, the share of Christians in both countries has been steadily declining due to less physicality, frequent persecution, extermination, and large emigration. In the last decade, dramatically fast. For example, Syria was a predominantly Christian country until the 13th century when it was conquered by Islam in the seventh century. Even in the 1920 census, Syria had a total of 2.5 million inhabitants of 25 percent of Christians. Please remember the number in 1920 - 2.5 million of all inhabitants. Christians live here, or rather many of them lived mainly in large cities, Damascus, Aleppu, and Homsu. It is mostly a middle and higher social class with secondary and university education, including prestigious Western universities. This community has very good relations with Lebanon. For Islamists, they are "thankful " targets because of their property and the fact that they are not organized into armed militias. Today, a large part of them are on the run in refugee camps, if they survived the rampage of fanatics at all. Syria had the largest population in 2010, about 22 million people. Since then, there has been a large decline in the population, so about 18 million are being reported today. Christians are about 10 percent of this amount. Other statistics show a spread share of 6,5 to 14 %. Note the figure of population growth dynamics and the pressure of a group of religiously oriented people between 1920 and 2010. Iraq. In 1960, the BAA Party came to power and Iraq was no longer allowed to publish official statistics. In 1987, a total of 16.3 million inhabitants were estimated, and of them about - the rough estimate - 8 percent of Christians, that is 1.4 million. In 2004, the total population of 24 million was about 1.8 million Christians, which is 7.4 percent. However, the following data are most favorable in terms of what is happening on the territory. After 2004, the number of Christians fell to 1.5 million, 5%, and in 2014, out of the 36 million people in Iraq, there were only about 350 to 450,000. Today, World Fact Book reports only about 0.8%, apparently those who failed to escape, or those who fled north to Erbil. Before the conflict, most Christians again lived mostly in the big cities of Baghdad, Kirkuk, Erbil, and Mosul. In earlier years, their position in society was similar to that in Syria. Although not interested in government or high administrative posts, I think Tárik Azíz was a big exception, and the only exception, but they used to be advisors to professional areas typically industrial companies, tourism, hospitality and free professions. The crucial thing is that even with minority representation in the population of 20 percent of all teachers in Iraq in schools and universities, they were Christians. From several statistical data and historical contexts, it is clear that in the worst existential hopelessness and with a bad outlook for the future, Christian refugees in Syria and Iraq have found themselves. Even with potentially optimistic stabilization of political conditions in these countries, there is little hope that Christians will be able to fully live and maintain their faith. To get an idea of the horror of the humanitarian crisis, I'm going to say one more number here. According to the United Nations for Refugees, 40% of children under the age of 11 are among refugees, in other words, parents are trying to save their children. Some are not even in refugee camps because they fear the Muslims who control these camps. Therefore, they flee from violence from the village to the village. In the second question, I stress that the problem of successful integration into our society must also be carefully considered when offering residence and citizenship in our territory. We already know that in our country, for example, in the field of culture and health, many people from Syria or Iraq are working very successfully without realizing their origins. Sharing the values of our civilization circuit is a matter of course for them. The Czech Republic has high quality experts at the Ministry of the Interior who have also managed the previous integration of immigrants into the Czech Republic and are ready to handle this work at the government's direction. I do not know that it is the people of Syria and Iraq who are a troubled group. On the contrary. If we fear the violence that has been shielded by Islamic faith over the last few years, there is no better defense than accepting their victims in our territory. For centuries, Christians in the Middle East have experienced intolerance, violence, and pogroms. Only a fool can think that not only refugees but also their children and children of their children will commit violence in the name of any religion in our country. On the contrary, many of them have been integrated for a long time in other developed countries around the world. They excel at the extraordinary ability to adapt, tolerance and insight. Why shouldn't they integrate in our quite tolerant society? From the perspective of our society, I want to personally guarantee that these people will be an asset to our country, not a burden, even from an economic, cultural and intellectual point of view. If I were to take this entirely pragmatically through the eyes of economic arithmetic, the contribution of accepting potential applicants would exceed the cost of the state of their integration. I fundamentally reject the populists' claim that we can't take care of our poor and we want to take on strangers. Within a short period of time, Syrian and Iraqi Christians would certainly belong to a group of residents that create social potential, not consume. The potential we're helping the needy. I am quite interested in statistics on the economic situation of immigrants in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, the agencies are doing research on everything, all kinds of nonsense, but I haven't come across any such research, even though I've been looking. But I don't see immigrants in our social ghettos. On the contrary. And if a part of these people were to be adopted, perhaps some of our churches, including the greatest of their cooperation with the state, could finally demonstrate the basic meaning of their actions in a clear way for the wider public. The Czech Republic has the full and inalienable right to decide who it accepts in its territory. In any case, it should not treat any policy of mandatory quotas. This could be very dangerous for our still immature democracy and would be a source of great problems. However, I am sure that our international prestige would increase if we chose a form of assistance. In subtext, we don't have to tell anyone that we're still making money. A similar policy has been made by neighboring Germany for a long time, and it is probably the mekka of Syrian and Iraqi Christians. [[18.10 hours]] Our country has economic capacity to accept a number of immigrants. Our country has an expert and organizational background for the integration of immigrants. Our majority society is tolerant of all who integrate, make a living on their own work and share our values. It therefore depends on the goodwill and ability of the government of the Czech Republic. I would like to put forward a motion for a resolution which may be subject to certain modifications, but I will in no way agree if it loses the fundamental message and the mandate for the government. I do not want to order this resolution, rather humbly ask. I will be proud of this House if you support the resolution across the political parties. In doing so, the government should have a strong mandate and free hands so as not to see strange xenophobic scenes such as they were when it decided to accept 15 Syrian children at risk of death and their parents. The resolution would be: Item one. The Chamber of Deputies appreciates the government's acceptance of disabled children and their families and humanitarian aid in the areas of war. 2. The Chamber of Deputies notes that Syrian and Iraqi Christians and Yazids are the most endangered group of residents in the current war conflict in Syria and Iraq. 3. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to allow entry into the territory of the Czech Republic to applicants who are the most vulnerable group at the point of conflict and meet all the requirements for successful integration into our society. Particular consideration should be given to the merging of divided families. Ladies and gentlemen, a visit to the petition committee at the asylum camp in Kostelec nad Orlicí has already been mentioned here. Unfortunately, in the meantime, since then, representatives of political parties from which no one has been there have been appear most on the issue. The Foreign Committee held a closed meeting on immigration, on the issue of Ukraine. As an MP, I was admitted there. I was allowed to participate where I was talking about it. Unfortunately, I believe that gross very sensitive information can only take place in the committees of the Chamber of Deputies, in closed or non-public committees. I believe that the workers, the experts of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will answer a number of things that the Prime Minister cannot answer for you here, the Minister of the Interior cannot answer for you. Not only is it a matter of security, that you can learn very interesting information from them, for example, about how different refugees of different nationalities behave in refugee camps, about people who have a problem and are troubled because alcoholism is being honored in their countries. You could learn more and more things. This is what I really think belongs to committees, and I would recommend putting pressure on them. Of course, we will support the steps of the government that will lead to greater internal security of the Czech Republic. It turns out that we can buy super expensive scanners for the airport, but there's a hole in there, and in a short time, I'm going to try with the Minister of Transport to give you here, and here, quite exceptionally, in the regime of Section 90, we're going to discuss a certain amendment to the law. I hope that someone from the coalition will present this, so that it is not taken in any political way, and we will run something through here that will lead to an increase in security. It's got a series of conventions. I would like to point out that if it is invested in security measures at, for example, the airport in Ruzyne, then it is also necessary to invest in another airport. We have four international ones, I think. Should responsibility for measures be delegated to owners or operators there, it may be final for some. So it has a whole series of conventions. The government should be generous, because it is really about our security, but I believe that this needs to be done in a partial, qualified manner, with data knowledge. So please, I'm willing to proceed to any modification. I don't know if we're going to discuss that point today when Vrbětice is firmly placed at 19:00, and if it is submitted and someone proposes a partial modification of my resolution, additions, enlargements, I have no problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u21	I thank Mr František Laudát. Now, with Mrs Jana Černochová's factual remark. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u22	[[He covers his microphone with a napkin.]] I am very sorry, Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I am here with priority rights, not our President, but I would like to ask Mr Laudát and all those who are spouting germs on all of us to stay at home, because I am glad that I do not belong to the endangered groups yet, but by going on a microphone after someone who spoke here in front of a lot and spewing germs here, I will certainly belong. It's not fair, it's not solid to all of us who came here. We want to be healthy, even if some of us are vaccinated. But maybe it's a shame that Vice-President Jermanová isn't here, that instead of the amazing idea of running around with an alcohol tube, someone could have measured the temperature of their colleagues at the reception. And whoever has the temperature wouldn't be allowed in here. I really refuse to sit here with 200 people carrying germs. So please, let's at least treat each other with a little consideration. And either put some plastic bags in here when we're talking about each other, or let those who are sick really stay home in bed and watch us on TV. About what was said here by the ministers and the Prime Minister. I don't think it was just about the Munich conference. Previously, for example, there was a conference within the Council of the European Union on 9 and 10 October, where there was a meeting of ministers for justice and internal affairs, in Luxembourg, and not at this conference, respectively. None of our representatives were present at the EU Council and the conference after it. Neither was the Minister of the Interior Chovanec, nor was the Minister of Justice there, nor was the Prime Minister there. And the main theme of this meeting was precisely the risks associated with the beginning of the integration wave into the Schengen area. This concerned the policy of threats to terrorism, the protection of the European Union's external borders within Schengen. I think that maybe a number of you and myself would be interested in the Prime Minister's opinion and, possibly, other members of the government, how we are going to deal with Greece, because it is clear here that the Řek who are in the Schengen area -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u23	My colleague, I know you've made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u24	I applied for a priority right hand. I said it right at the start.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u25	I'm sorry. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u26	Thank you. The view of Greece, which has been in the Schengen area since 2004, and, as we know, has not long maintained the protection of external borders. I am interested in the opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic on how, if there is a debate in the European Union on whether Greece should remain and form part of the Schengen area, how our representatives of our government will decide on this. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to give his opinion on how he would address the Greek question. About what the Prime Minister just said. Please, let's not pretend that security strategy is something new now. You've only dusted off the security strategy we worked out in 2011. It's the gros that's really left of her. You can compare it on all possible servers. Only you copied it so thoroughly that you missed the fact that the geopolitical situation changed in such a crucial way that Russia began to speak into it, so unfortunately it is not named in your security strategy because you copied from us, it is not named the main threat and it is Russia. [[18.20 hours]] Prime Minister Sobotka, it is sad that you do not know this, but we have been on a multiannual mission mandate for several years. So this is no news that this Chamber of Deputies would approve of your premiering. It's been happening for years. About what Minister Stropnický said here. I agree with most of what has been said here. But I'm a little embarrassed that we're saying we're doing the best we can. I think, Minister, that your government could have done much more, even your resort could have done much more, because, as we know, the law on the defence, the Act on active advances, we've been talking about this House for over a year. And I know I'm mean. I know that every time I speak, when the law comes within the Government and within the Committee on Defence in plenary, and I'm always flattered that next month, the next month, the next month, the next month. I'm glad we've had two hundred and twenty-one, which, of course, is an important standard. But an equally important standard for the security of our citizens, our country, and for the stabilisation of our army is the Act on Active Advances and Defence Law, which could have been here a long time ago. And we could already have this law in force, started recruiting active advances, new incentives for employers. And everything that Alexandr Vondra has prepared in that law is. And it's a shame the law hasn't been here in a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u27	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. Before we continue the debate - I will, of course, respect that you have declared your priority right, but I do not have a colleague, Stanjura, who has been excused or told me that he will be far away for some time, so don't be angry that I have accepted your application as a factual request to which you have been applied for. At the same time, I will use this short gap before I give the next word to ask the MPs to propose a rapporteur. It is mostly the first speaker in the debate. I respect Mrs Černochová's proposal that he should not be the one who is more seriously ill and is performing here. In this respect, of course, I did not ask for the position of rapporteur either from the government or with priority rights. So we will continue with the factual remark of František Laudát, then the proper application by Mrs Putnová. And I'm gonna ask if my colleague Miroslava Němcová is the rapporteur, so if she's okay with it, then we'd...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u28	Thank you for the floor. I've only had a short time. Just because I'm hoarse doesn't mean I'm spreading germs. If someone's spreading germs more and more hate because you're 6 percent and you don't know what to grab on to... [[Laughter on the left.]] I've always reported my past in ODS, but lately I'm really starting to feel ashamed that I've been on this side. [[with emphasis]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u29	Thank you, in particular, for keeping time on the point of fact. So if no one objects, we will stick without the vote of the council, which is true in the Chamber of Deputies, that the first speaker in the debate - that is, Mrs Miroslava Němcová would be rapporteur for this point. If no one objects to the President's procedure, we have agreed to do so. [[No objections.]] Mrs Anna Putnová will now be speaking. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u30	Good evening, Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me share with you a personal experience that has touched me very much. I mean, sometimes a story can tell more than political analysis or--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u31	I'm gonna interrupt you one more time and ask my colleagues for peace! [[Noise especially from the left.]] If you're discussing other matters, please move them to the galleys. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u32	So I'll take the liberty of going on. In 2011, I received an invitation from Professor Ahlam Imad of the Petrochemical Faculty in Homs. I was very pleased by this invitation to visit. I didn't know what I deserved. I assumed because it was at a time when I was dean of the Faculty of Business, that it had to do with my activity and to try to support women in their creative development and break down barriers to their self-realization. I replied that I would be very happy to accept this invitation, and as soon as time allows me to go to Homs. In the autumn of 2012, my colleague told me: You will never see Professor Imad again. And he referred me to the austere agency report in SANA, which was dated June 28, 2012. In this report it said: Professor Ahlam Imad was killed in her home in Homs province on 28 June 2012 along with five members of her family... Furthermore, the agency states: It is part of a terrorist strategy that destroys experts and intellectuals. I have to say that I was deeply offended, and although I did not have the opportunity to meet the professor, I often think of her. We're peers, we have a similar professional career. We tried to support women as part of their self-enforcement. I was just born in a different country. The story, the sad story, could end here. But he's not quitting. Because the invitation was interpreted to me by my colleague, Syřan, who is a lecturer of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Communications at the BUT. He studied in Brno, lived here for 18 years, married a Czech girl, had a child. In 2012 he managed to get part of the family to safety, to the safety of our republic. His brother arrived, also an electrical engineer who graduated from Damascus, and his wife, an English teacher. They both found work very quickly. The Czech Republic had no costs with their relocation, with their assimilation. So did my parents. Unfortunately, his sisters are still in Damascus. They're college girls who live with families in a dangerous area. If we have called here to clarify our positions, to actually know who is who and who is behind what, I want to say clearly and openly here that I believe that the Czech Republic must show solidarity towards people who are in such immediate danger of life. The solidarity consists both of those who suffer, so it is the threats, those divided families, Christians, etc., but at the same time it is also solidarity with countries that are not sticking their heads in the sand and doing their utmost to help this disaster, human misfortune, alleviate it. I think the Czech Republic has its experience with totalitarian and dictatorial regimes trying to destroy their elites, intellectual elites. I suppose that's why we should have our understanding. And if we're calling and asking for split families to come together, I'd like to say that it's part of the help that we're helping ourselves. We help ourselves as a nation to say that we did what we really could at the moment, and we could stand by our decision. I ask the absent foreign minister whether he can help actively by trying to intervene and arrange for divided families that show no security risk and which are easily acclimatized, because they have background with their family members, to unite. It is really helping our own nation so that we can also be properly proud of our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u33	Thank you, Mrs Anna Putnová. The words will be taken by Mrs Zelienková, and a colleague, Seďa, will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u34	Thank you. Mr President, my Lord, my fellow Members, thank you for a very interesting story, but let me briefly return to the situation in Ukraine. There will be a meeting in Minsk tomorrow. Norman format, i.e. Porošenko, Putin, Merkelová and Holland. I frankly say that this is one of the last ways to prevent further deepening of the war, and now no one can imagine how deep it could go. Because if the meeting fails again and the United States answers Ukraine's request for arms supply, no one knows what Russia will do, and our debate on state security will be much more restless than it is today. When I spoke in Strasbourg a week ago at the Council of Europe plenary session on the situation in Ukraine, I recalled what many still doubt. And because some colleagues in this House also doubt that, I will repeat my words: Russia is the Initiator and organizer of the armed uprising against the Ukrainian state. Today and daily, our observers, journalists, and secret services inform us that more tanks, armored vehicles, heavy weapons, and Russian soldiers are arriving from Russia on rebel territory. This war has driven hundreds of thousands of people out of their homes, dug deep moats, and after the war, it will take a long time for local people to live together again. No one harmed the Russian-language population as President Putin did, and without his support, the war in Ukraine would have ended long ago. Why Putin's doing this, we can only argue about that. However, it is clear that it wants to create a frozen conflict in Ukraine that will long-term plunge Ukraine into political instability and economic marasm, but which will, in particular, prevent any systemic convergence of Ukraine with Europe, because, as an answer, Putin would quickly turn the frozen conflict on again. It is also clear that Putin extends the war to forget about Crimea so that we can all one day say to each other: Thank God he is no longer fighting at Donbas, and with Crimea now Putin will not provoke, because who knows what he would do again. We can therefore only hope that Putin has achieved these goals and will go to Minsk tomorrow with the fact that he really wants to make a deal. If not at the end of the war, at least on a real truce that could then be built on. As rapporteur for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I am preparing material on the political consequences of the Ukrainian crisis. I am going to Kiev on Sunday, where I will meet President Porošenk, Prime Minister Jaceňuk, ambassadors of the countries of the European Union, and there will be a journey to the east of Ukraine. The only objective of the Council of Europe is to end fighting, restore justice and the democratic and human rights of all the people there, without distinction of nationality, language or conviction. And I will do my best to fulfill this mission of the Council of Europe. At the same time, I believe that this is also the interest of the Czech Republic and that such is the government's policy, that our primary concern is the termination of the fights and the subsequent political stabilization of Ukraine, and that this is important for us not only from a security point of view, but also in terms of the values thanks to which there is a common Europe. I therefore call on all of us to unite and act in the interests of the Czech Republic in a united and understandable way, to realize what our values are, what part of the world we belong to, who we rely on, who our friends and partners are, and that every other death of an innocent person is our great failure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u35	Thank you, Madame. Have a nice evening. I have here one factual remark from Mr Böhnisch, after which Mr Seďa will be prepared for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u36	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. The comment does not concern the subject at issue, I was just looking for a moment to get in touch with the correction of my vote. It was the last vote number 86 that I voted in favour of, but I'm late for high school. I am not questioning the vote, and I am stating this only for the sake of the tapestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So now duly signed up for the debate by Mr Seďa and then by Mr Šarapatka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the Government, dear colleagues, I want to introduce you to resolution 412 adopted by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly at its Annual Meeting in The Hague on 24 November last year, as President of the Permanent Delegation of the Czech Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance. This resolution, called the humanitarian crisis at the southern borders of Europe, stated that the overall instability in the Middle East and North Africa, and in particular the conflicts in Syria and Iraq, has triggered a devastating humanitarian crisis that is now reaching Europe's borders, and that tens of thousands of people have lost their lives in Syria and Iraq since the beginning of the war, and millions have fled their homes and that thousands of refugees and migrants from the MENA region have died trying to cross the Mediterranean. At the same time, the Assembly appreciated Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and other countries' efforts to provide shelter and food for millions of Syrian and Iraqi refugees, stating that Lebanon and Jordan's capacity was nearing exhaustion, and that the arrival of Syrian refugees in recent years has led to overpopulation, price growth, water shortages, increasing social tensions and increasing economic difficulties. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, the southern states of Europe have taken on disproportionate burdens in the care of these refugees and migrants, although many of them do not stay in these countries and move quickly to the norther states. The Assembly thanked Italy's humanitarian efforts in the context of the Mare Nostrum operation, which enabled the arrest of a significant number of human traders who have a significant share in the loss of the lives of migrants at sea in the Mediterranean region. The Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance urges the governments and parliaments of the Member States of the Sevroatlantic Alliance to increase support for those border states that bear the greatest burden as host countries. Furthermore, to establish a genuine multilateral programme to discourage human trafficking and smugglers from their deadly business activities in order to reduce the number of refugees dying at sea and to deepen cooperation and increase assistance to countries of origin and transit countries in order to find a lasting solution for refugees and internally displaced persons. Ladies and gentlemen, the members of this assembly ask that countries align their national legal standards for prosecuting trafficking in human beings and re-evaluate the procedures for the reception of refugees across Europe so that the burden of receiving such a huge number of illegal migrants is shared more fairly. [[18.40 hours]] This requires Member States to develop comprehensive approaches on the specific problems facing refugees, in particular women and children, and to work with host countries to implement support systems to improve the living conditions of these innocent victims of war and terrorism. NATO Parliamentary Assembly calls on the Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance to address the idea of creating humanitarian corridors in war zones so that the essential needs of war-traumatic populations in their homes can be taken care of, thereby reducing their motivation to leave. Furthermore, to support vaccination programmes, especially in Syria, and to pressure warring parties not to use health-care denial as a tool of war. Even to explore the possibility of creating a no-fly zone and safe zones in Syria in order to provide shelter and protection to local communities and internally displaced persons. honourable Members, the resolution adopted by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly shows the ways in which NATO Member States should take. Personally, I believe that emphasis should be placed on humanitarian, health and food aid directly in the countries of origin, possibly in countries that accept refugees and which are directly adjacent to the countries of origin. I also believe that this assistance cannot only come from Europe, but it should primarily come from rich Arab countries. The fact that the Czech Republic, as a member state of the North Atlantic Alliance, has become involved and will further engage in solidarity in helping refugees with war-stricken countries is in line with these principles of the adopted resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I shall now ask Mr Šarapatka. Mrs Langšádlová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members of the Government, I have heard many opinions and opinions here both from the plenary and from the members of the government. It seems to me, especially with regard to the presentation of ministers and Prime Minister, that we are very satisfied and we do not realize the difference between the situation in the Czech Republic and the situation in Western Europe. It seems to me that we should not copy the steps that France, Holland, Belgium and others do. We should be making arrangements to never get into the situation where Western European states are today. Today they pay in France for the many mistakes of their previous governments and elsewhere, when they have failed to eliminate frustration between immigrants and their descendants and majority societies. In the Czech Republic, we must take care that we do not find ourselves in this situation. I do not believe that simple solutions such as demonstrations and calls for the destruction of mosques that are not yet standing here and so on will help. Our advantage is mainly different historical developments. In our country there is a minimum number of immigrants, in our society, compared to Western Europe. We don't have a colonial past, so there's been no disproportion and some feelings of historical injustice. Thanks to the construction of socialism, we did not experience a period of economic boom in Western Europe in the 1960s and 1970s, when Western European economies brought in a lot of cheap labor from both their colonies and other developing countries. The largest group of immigrants in our Republic are Ukrajinec. There's about 200,000 of them. Their advantage is that they have similar cultural and historical roots, I do not say the same. Honestly, when you meet them on the street, in many cases you won't recognize them from the Čech. There is also no social tension between immigrants and a majority society. Those are all benefits. On the other hand, it seems to me that the government is basically very happy with what's here. It seems to me that this may not be the case forever and that we should be very active in not putting our problems on the line. I believe that the government and our entire Republic must take a very active approach to the problem of immigration. This means not waiting to see who will bring us another conflict or any humanitarian or other crisis, or possibly who will be assigned to us by Brusel, as we have learned from the Secretary of State Prouza. We should be active ourselves and actually look among immigrants for those who will benefit our country who will not be a burden to the majority society. And it is our right to decide who we invite to our country to start a new life here. We should therefore clearly define the criteria that we want in our country. We should strictly control these criteria. For example, a minority community cannot be allowed to abide by its own right, as is the case in some parts of the major cities of Western Europe, where communities live under Islamic Sharia law. Of course, compliance with the criteria so set should be closely monitored, even in such a way that, for example, the right of permanent residence already allocated or the right of temporary residence could be withdrawn from immigrants in the event of a breach of, for example, a criminal code or criminal code. I think that all I've been talking about here is the crucial role of the government. The government simply has to assume responsibility to prepare all the essential assumptions that the majority company should not be restricted or possibly influenced by potential immigrants. This means that the government must ensure that immigrants become an asset to our society and not a burden. I would therefore like to ask the government officials. I believe that we do not yet have an adequate legal framework to allow immigrants to be accepted in greater numbers and that we do not have a legal framework in place to really integrate these immigrants into society. We do not define where we will take resources for their integration, where accommodation capacities will be defined, where these immigrants will go to retraining, where, for example, their children will go to school, who will guarantee them jobs where they will be educated, so that they do not succumb to the sense of inferiority, as is the case in France. But no less important, he'll be working with the majority company. Although we have been protected by intercultural and social antagonism because of the colonial period and the absence of economic Western Europe's miracle, we have not yet learned to live with other ethnicities. We really need to learn this so we don't get scared of them. On the subject of Syrian families and Syrian children. Me and priori are not against their acceptance. We have to realize, however, that there are 70 children mentioned here, that in Syria there are not tens or hundreds, but hundreds of thousands of children who suffer in a similar way. So our help should be directed above all to the places of conflict and the countries immediately adjacent to them. [[18.50 hours]] To my predecessor, I would like to add that I absolutely cannot accept a religious key - that is, we will accept Christian refugees and we will not accept Muslims. If anyone is in need, they are in need no matter what religion they profess. Finally, I would like to say that it is also appropriate to address our co-responsibility in addressing the issue of Islamism and, where appropriate, immigration throughout Europe. I mean that we should therefore actively participate in the protection of the common Schengen area, because it is not only a declaration of European values, but it is also our life interest. There are no borders in Schengen and I cannot - we are still talking de facto about protecting or addressing immigration from the outside. But how are we going to address the immigration of the Homeland Schengen? In France, the French passport has at least ten million immigrants and their descendants, who are of Arabic origin. In Britain, they are descendants of Pakistani, Bangladeshi. And these people can travel freely, which means we should deal very intensively with this. At the same time, I think it is our right, on the other hand, to require that border countries in charge of the protection of the Schengen area protect and fully fulfil their responsibilities, and not that, for example, immigrants who are not registered come from Malta to the Schengen area and then appear in Germany, in those target countries where they are being dragged by a rich social system, etc. So that's about it so far, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I note one point of fact, Mr Benešík. After that, Mrs Langšádlová will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u42	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members and members of the Government. I would only briefly respond to what Mr Šarapatka said, especially to the beginning and then to the end. It is we who must learn from France, but from the very early stages. This means preventing us from creating the problem that France has today. So if we're to accept any migrants and immigrants, best off the civilization circuit that's close to us. So it's kind of a reference to religion, because we're basically protecting them. I have noted some petition by 20 Muslim ambassadors who claim that the Czech Republic is Islamophobic. And that is why, if they feel that way, it is ideal that these immigrants, who would happen to be at risk of alleged Islamophobia in the Czech Republic, are accepted by rich states with the same culture as they have. This means Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, where health care is free. This means that I think that we could share fairly, and then Europe and perhaps the Czech Republic could just accept immigrants who will not feel threatened and benefit, which is in the vast majority of those Christian refugees. That's about as much as it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have two factual points here, I apologise, Madame. [[Langshade]] Mr Šarapatka and Mr Fiedler have the first. So I will first ask Mr Šarapatka for his point of order and Mr Fiedler will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just like to say to the speaker that I totally agree with that. I really believe that we should invite people from the same cultural sphere here, which means people from close countries, if possible. I even believe that, paradoxically, the conflict in Ukraine could help us in this. There are people here today who are eventually willing to change their lives completely, and so on. On the other hand, when it comes to humanitarian disaster, we will not be able to distinguish whether this Arábek is professing Christianity or Islam. Oh, my God, I can't believe this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u45	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Fiedler. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u46	Good evening, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to respond to what my colleague Ondřej Benešík has said here, and I agree with the ideas that have been expressed here by my colleague Benešík. I'm really glad that there's a consensus that we don't want to get to where the states that went before us have gotten to. That's why we're discussing this here. And if that's our common goal, as they say, thank God for it. We just don't want to get in there. That's all. As my colleague Benešík here also mentioned before me about the compatibility of religious cultures and the rich states where health is free. It's very considerate. And let us ask ourselves why people of this religion do not want to emigrate to much richer countries than the Czech Republic, where they would have much smaller language problems where they would not have religious problems and why they want to join us. As I read on the Internet, perhaps Saudi Arabia intends to build a wall against these refugees. And why is it that the country that has the same culture, the same religion, wants to build a wall - and we're going to take them here? Really, don't be mad at me, he has no logic, and I agree with my colleague Benešík's views.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u47	Thank you. One more point of fact is made here by Mr Benešík. For the record: we will discuss this item by 19.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u48	I'm so sorry to keep you. It's a short line for a colleague of mine, Fiedler. They might even want to go to that country. The question is, and it was actually answered at the end, if that Muslim country wants the Muslims herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now duly signed up for the debate, Mrs Langšádlová. We've got three minutes, so we've settled, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u50	Beautiful evening, Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen. Migration has always been one of Europe's. It's always been in Europe, it's always going to happen, it's going to happen. We must be aware of that. But it is up to us how many and from which areas migrants come to us and how we can integrate them into our society. We can hardly look at this problem from the point of view of the Czech Republic, because we are also concerned with what is happening in Europe and around Europe. This has an immediate impact on the state of migration and, at the moment, on the migration crisis. Since the Committee on European Affairs is also aware of the seriousness of these issues, we have set up a subcommittee on migration and asylum policy and I believe that we will also come to the Chamber of Deputies with our specific proposals on migration. The information I have been meeting with in recent months at various conferences, seminars, but also at meetings in Brussels is extremely alarming and many have been said. There have been several conflicts around Europe, the Arab Spring, the collapse of many countries, and 25 million people - some talking about even more - are on the move. There has been an extremely extensive humanitarian crisis around Europe, and we have had an incredible human trafficking in the Mediterranean. You may have heard that trafficking in human beings today is to a greater extent than trafficking in weapons and drugs. Those are all things we can't close our eyes to. [[19.00 hours]] Only last year, more than half a million people came to Europe who applied for asylum. And what can not leave us calm - several tens of thousands of people came into our common space last year without identification. We don't really know whether or not they're a security risk because we don't know who came. Therefore, the question and the discussion about protecting the common border is also our question. It's not just about those desperate Ital who just can't handle the situation. What is alarming information for me and it did not sound here, within the Schengen visa, which is issued for tourist purposes, is not the subject of a system. In short, we do not know who is coming to the common Schengen area and whether he will also leave in the framework of the Schengen visa after three months. These questions are extremely serious. When we talk about migration, we really cannot close our eyes to what is happening especially in Western Europe. It has deep roots many tens, hundreds of years ago. It is true that these two problems have now been encountered, and as we have not managed many things, we have not managed, for example, to integrate our Rom, so it is necessary to speak openly that many of those who have come to Western Europe have not accepted European values and many European countries have not mastered integration. This also applies to us, and I believe that attention will also be focused on this in the context of negotiations at European level, because those effects will also affect us. These issues need to be followed because they are also closely linked to demographic developments, and I have to say that they can also have a very significant social impact, because when I learn from sociologists from Prague's Charles University that 40% of the children of foreigners in Berlin, in the advanced wealthy Germany with a good education system, do not finish the primary school, we are not just faced with a question that concerns various religious views, but we can really face a very serious social issue, because the impact of this not successful integration can actually be very large social problems. I think that we must act responsibly and we must speak openly about these issues in the Czech Republic. And I would like to thank in many of the Ministry of the Interior that the situation is stable, but I would also like to point out that when we talk about migration, we must fundamentally divide two types of immigrants. One species is an asylumant. No republic, no country can choose that, no country must accept it at that time and open asylum proceedings. If asylum is not granted, it must be -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u51	Madam, I'm sorry. Since we have exceeded nineteen o'clock, I suggest that if someone objects that you would make your contribution and then we would end or interrupt this point, and that there will be no further factual comments or other contributions to the debate. So I want to ask if anyone is objecting to this proposed procedure. It's not like that. So I will ask you, Madame, to complete your contribution, and then I will interrupt this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your tolerance. I won't be too long. What is important to distinguish and in the discussions of the last few weeks it has not always been distinguished, there is an asylumant coming, and if he is coming, we simply do not choose him, we cannot choose him. We need to open an asylum procedure. If protection is allowed, yes, our state will take care of it. But there are often talk of large social benefits. It is good to know that in the Czech Republic the benefits for asylum seekers after they are provided with accommodation, food, are in the amount of about CZK 15 per day, if there are long discussions here, how much it costs our social system. On the other hand, we need to talk very consistently with European partners about a consistent return policy, because those who come here on the basis of an asylum application are not granted, so they must return to the countries from which they came. Of course, the other whole group are those who come here within long-term visas, long-term stays, and this is the part of migration that we have and we have to manage, because it is actually several groups of people. They're the ones who come to study, they're the people from science and research, and I believe they're welcome at our universities, they're the ones who do business here, they're the ones who get jobs. And we've also heard a lot of untruths and rumors in this area. Nobody's taking our jobs! If any foreigner gets a job in the Czech Republic, it is only after he is not interested in this job from the Czech Republic or from another country of the European Union. Other sometimes discussed groups are those who come from the merger of marriage, yes, and, in some cases, organized crime is once again taking advantage of this title and there are illegal practices. Let's talk about all this. I also think it is absolutely appropriate for us to talk about what countries migrants are actually coming from in the Czech Republic. This, when some colleagues spoke of the possibility of being Syrian Christians, for example, and it aroused disapproval, aroused disapproval from a number of sides. But I think it is perfectly legitimate to acknowledge that European civilization is on Christian roots and that it is Christians who would have a better chance of integrating, and I think that we are aware of that whether we believe in bůh or not. The fact that our European civilizations, unlike other civilizations, stand on these very roots is not a question of our faith, it is a question of the nature of our civilization. And what is ahead of us is undoubtedly to be responsible for this issue, not to repeat the mistakes made by many Western European countries, so that migration policy, the one that we can influence, remains at national level. It is our great interest not to accept those migrants that basically our European partners could not handle. I think we need to talk about the issue of adapting information systems. It should also be noted that our intelligence services should have the possibility of veto rights in the event of long-term stays and long-term visas. It's not like that at the moment. This means that when someone applies for a long-stay visa, even though intelligence services assess this applicant as a security risk, they sometimes get a long-term stay and it doesn't matter if it's an Eastern or South applicant. The moment our intelligence services evaluate anyone as risky to the Czech Republic, they do not get a long-term residence permit. I think there are many challenges ahead of us and in this area. It will certainly transform what has been happening and what is happening for demographic reasons, and it will extremely transform the Europe we live in. I believe that the crisis we are experiencing is also firmly linked to the Evropan' value and demographic crisis and we have the right and the duty to defend the values on which European civilization stands. On the other hand, in defending these values, we must not deny them ourselves at the same time, and that is for me, if we are screaming against accepting, for example, wounded Syrian children. Because if some today refer to our civilization values, solidarity is undoubtedly one of them. I would like to support the proposal by František Laudát, and I would like to ask our government to consider whether we can accept more injured sick children, because it has been said here, there are millions of people living in refugee camps, children who are at risk in their lives. There are thousands, not units. And I think we have a duty to stand up to this responsibly, so that we can maintain security in the Czech Republic, but at the same time, so that we do not go against the values on which our civilization stands. We simply need to be more interested in what is happening not only in our country, but also in Europe and its surroundings. No doubt we have dealt with a lot of migration and asylum policy, but we need to look at this issue comprehensively, talk and discuss immigration policy and at the same time the integration of foreigners who come to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-10-ps2013-025-05-004-108.u53	Thank you, Madame, for your contribution and all other colleagues for your patience. I am now interrupting the 25th meeting and interrupting it by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning with the fact that we will continue with the points already firmly placed. Now I'm going to take a short, three-minute break and we're going to continue the 24th meeting, and that's the point of Vrbětice. We'll continue at 19.13 hours.
