ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u1	5. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 /German press 617/ - second reading The submitted proposal under the authority of the Government shall be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 was approved by the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament at first reading. The draft state budget was discussed in the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] Allow me now to thank all the gessional committees for discussing the various chapters of the State budget and the Budget Committee for the comprehensive discussion and processing of the documents for the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u3	Minister, I am very sorry, but I must interrupt you and I ask that you continue when the House calms down. I'm asking everyone to transfer their calls to the galleys because we're just talking about the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u4	I assume that the amendments to the draft state budget will be tabled at today's meeting. In this context, I would like to point out that the General Treasury chapter has a budget of more than 144 billion. CZK, contained in tens of items. I would like to point out in advance that any amendment concerning the chapter of the General Treasury must necessarily include a specific specification of the items concerned, otherwise such a proposal is unvoteable. I would also like to point out that the Budgetary Rules Act clearly defines the Act on the minimum amount of the government's budgetary reserve, which amounts to 0,3 per cent of the total expenditure of the state budget. I shall give my opinion on the proposed amendments when voting at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u5	I thank the Minister for his opening words. This proposal was ordered by the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies to discuss the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 617/2. The Committee on Budgets also adopted a report from the negotiations delivered as House Press 617/3. I now ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Václav Votava, to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, good morning to all. I would like to introduce you both to the budget committee's resolution and to the budgetary committee's report on the budgetary committee's deliberations. The resolution of the budget committee of the 32nd meeting of 18 November 2015 on the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2016, House press 617, you have it as press 617/2. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Gregor, the report of the Chairman of the Votava Committee and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament 1. Notes that all the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the chapters and headings of the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2016, as instructed by the Chamber of Deputies by their resolution number 929 of 22 October this year, and adopted their resolutions with the exception of the Committee on Petitions, which discussed Chapter 304, the Office of the Government and the Resolution on the Chapter did not adopt, and the Committee on Social Policy, which discussed Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Resolution on the Chapter, did not adopt. The Committee on Budgets notes that the Constitutional Law Committee asks the Ministry of Finance to release the necessary funds during 2016 to complete the reconstruction of the facade and cellars of the building of the headquarters of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. The Committee on Budgets recommends: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2016, Parliament's Press 617, and the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016: The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 and with the Government's proposal on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 according to the House's 617 press, as amended by the amendments adopted in accordance with the Annex to this resolution. It empowers the President and the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which I have done. I will just add that the tables are annexed to this resolution, as the various amendments have been discussed, and they have also been approved by the Committee on Budgets. I would now like to introduce you to the report from the budget committee meeting of the same day on the Government Bill on the State Budget. Following the opening remarks, the Committee on Budgets did not recommend: The Chamber of Deputies shall have the following accompanying resolutions of the committees: The Defence Committee, as amended by: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic considers, from the point of view of the defence of the Czech Republic and the development of the security situation, the unsustainable use of the fighting and support units of the Czech Army to protect the civilian perimeter in Vrbětice and asks the Government to terminate this participation by 31 January 2016 at the latest. He also did not recommend the accompanying resolution of the Economic Committee in which the Economic Committee asks the Government to increase Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic by an amount of 245 million. CZK in favour of the binding indicator "other expenditure related to state transport policy" for increasing the contribution to ESA optional programmes. He also did not approve the accompanying resolution of the Economic Committee in which the Economic Committee asks the Government of the Czech Republic to increase Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic by an amount of CZK 4,800 347 to cover the salaries of employees of the Directorate of Waterways of the Czech Republic. He did not approve the amendments to the numeral items of the Committee's resolution as set out in the Annex to this report. It shall authorise the rapporteur's President to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this report, which I have done. Once again, I will remind you that the unapproved resolution and the unapproved amendments are part of this report on the budgetary committee's deliberations. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u7	I thank the rapporteur. I am opening up a detailed debate on the bill that Mr Zdeněk Ondráček joined first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u8	Hello, Mr President, colleagues. I am proposing one specific amendment to the state budget for two chapters, while I want to maintain the state budget as a whole, that is, I will not increase the deficit, and I would propose to reduce it from one chapter and add it to the other chapter. This is specifically Chapter 355 of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, where under the heading "Combined Indicators - Expenditure" I would reduce the original amount of CZK 174 450 808 by CZK 30 million. CZK 144 450 808 CZK. I would transfer this money to Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior, namely to the items "cross-section indicators', as follows: salaries of staff of armed forces and services in service. [[9.20 hours]] I would increase the original amount of CZK 21 166 566 807 by 25 miles. to the amount of CZK 21 191 566 807. Under the salary item of employees in employment, excluding employees in employment, I would increase the item CZK 3 565 948 062 by CZK 3.5 million. CZK for total amount 3 569 440 062 CZK. And since we have a service law, I'd increase the salaries of employees in service posts under the Civil Service Act by 1.5 miles. CZK for the target amount 1 266 988 048 CZK. What makes me think of these proposed changes? The proposed changes in both chapters of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 are based on specific priorities that I would expect the government to have for 2016. The government has already responded to the worsening security situation and has approved an increase in the number of police officers by about 4000 tables. But this promotion is supposed to take five long years. In a situation where we cannot predict further security developments in Europe, let alone in our country, in a situation where practically day-to-day there may be a major deterioration in our security situation and, for example, in terrorist attacks, or as a result of failing to cope with the migration crisis, checks at national borders or a narrowing of the Schengen area may occur, while the Czech Republic could become a country with an external border that needs to be properly guarded, there should be a sufficient number of well-trained and prepared police officers. However, they also need to be rewarded according to the degree of risk they take in performance. This, of course, also applies to the civilian staff of this Security Service. It should also be noted, however, that the Police of the Czech Republic are already working at full power today and that other tasks placed on it need no longer be carried out. In addition, there is the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, which has in recent years shown the results of its activities, both in quantity and quality, which do not correspond to the expenditure associated with them. It is a question of whether in 2016 we need this office in such a staffing capacity and, therefore, expenditures which are virtually identical to the budget chapter of the Constitutional Court and which it had in previous years, or whether we can allow its gradual slimming. If we evaluate the proposal only in terms of priorities of citizens of the Czech Republic and avoid ideological ideas, it is necessary to ensure the security of citizens of the Czech Republic a priority. I therefore believe that this proposal could also receive your support. I don't know now, Mr President, I have... [[He is turning to the President.]] We're in a debate. So you will find this proposal as House Document 3273. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u9	Thank you. I am just being vague, because many wondered why there is no general debate. According to Article 105 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is necessary to apply the provisions of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The draft law on the State budget and the resolution of the Committee on Budgets shall be held by a detailed debate in which amendments and, where appropriate, other proposals shall be submitted. So you didn't miss anything. Please, everyone who is logged in has the opportunity to present their proposal now in a detailed debate. I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Another duly registered member is Mr Zdeněk Soukup. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u10	Ladies and gentlemen. Before I sign up for my amendment, I'll give you a few numbers. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs states in Chapter 313, that in 2016 it consumes 12 784 740 353 CZK for the payment of benefits in material distress. This is CZK 869 840 993 more than in 2015. The Czech economy has been growing for a long time. In addition, the unemployment rate is decreasing from 8,6 percent in January 2014 to 5.9 percent in October 2015. During that period, the number of job vacancies is steadily increasing from around 36,000 in January 2014 to today's 107,000 jobs. According to the forecast on economic developments, at least stagnation of these indicators can be expected. I do not see logic in reducing the number of unemployed people and at the same time increasing the demands for payment of benefits in material distress. I really don't see her. I'd expect the opposite trend. There are fewer people without work, more people receive a proper wage, fewer subsistence allowances and fewer benefits in immediate material distress will have to be paid. There should also be less demands for payment of the housing supplement. After all, Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Marksová Tominová promotes the reduction of this supplement, as I have learned from the media several times. I originally intended to reduce the amount of benefits in material distress to this year's level, i.e. by some 870 miles. Crowns. That's a very high number. But I'm going to compromise. I propose a reduction of 600 miles. Crowns. I recommend transferring this amount to the pension benefit item, knowing that resources should be sought within Chapter 313 for the payment of a one-off increase in pensions. The amendment dealing with this transfer has been inserted into the system. I'll sign up for it later, even after I say the final few sentences. The compromise gives the opportunity to use at least another 300 miles. CZK to move to other items where necessary, for example, to valorize funds for the disabled or to any of the other undervalued items of Chapter 313. Money is never enough. But I'll leave that up to one of you colleagues. Thank you for your attention. And now I'm going to sign up for this motion, as the Rules of Procedure impose on me. My amendment is included in the system under number 3272. Well, I'm applying to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u11	I thank Mr Soukup. Another duly signed up is Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u12	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I will limit myself to two budget chapters for which I have prepared my amendments. Specifically, it is a chapter of the Ministry of Education and the second amendment concerns the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As far as the Ministry of Education budget is concerned, at first glance, it seems that we can be satisfied with the budget that it is acceptable, at least if we compare it with last year. The agreement is certainly more than 4 billion more money for education compared to this year. koruna, of which 2.4 billion. they're supposed to go to raise salaries in regional education, half a percent increase in FKSP, funding for sport, that's certainly worthwhile. On the other hand, when I study more closely, I wonder whether this increase is really sufficient in connection with the extensive changes planned by the Ministry. Compulsory pre-school education in the last year before entering primary school and the related need to increase capacity in kindergarten schools, increase in number of pupils in primary schools, that is to say, increase the number of pedagogical staff and expand the space, be it classrooms or school clubs. Last year's 300 miles are also missing. crowns for textbooks and aids. [[9.30 hours]] Another question will be the intention of the Ministry to integrate pupils who are now educated in special schools into ordinary classes. An amount of 80 million is earmarked for this. The koruna is quite inadequate in my opinion. If, in my opinion, the wrong step of inclusion occurs at all costs, it will be necessary to ensure and, above all, pay a large number of special educators, psychologists, consultants, assistants, methodologies, preventists and others. The construction and reconstruction of school buildings will be necessary because it is impossible for children with, for example, light mental disabilities and other problems to be educated in classes of 30 pupils. A proper evaluation of the teachers will be necessary, which will increase the amount of work. Further ensure an adequate education system. I am thinking specifically of special pedagogy, because the current preparation and hourly grants at the faculties for mainstream school teachers in no way can be sufficient. Of course, when it comes to salaries, each teacher welcomes an increase. But it would be fair, in fact, to say that the promised growth in these salaries by 3.3 percent is average growth, with most teachers not meeting such an increase. The same applies to the 3% increase in the salaries of non-teaching school workers, but they have a disgraceful salary. However, of course, as I said before, every extra crown for educators is good. I could also ask where the money needed for the Ministry's next upcoming steps will be taken. Change of financing of regional education, introduction of career regulations, planned meals in the final year of kindergarten, respectively. still in the first three years of primary school for children free. I stress that I am in no way questioning this intention. On the contrary, I consider it to be very reasonable and I think that it will help socially weak families, I warn that 100,000 children do not have paid lunches and choose different charities for them, but also that it is in the interest of creating the right eating habits of children and perhaps motivation for parents of children who currently do not participate in pre-school education to consider and reconsider their position. But all of this, as I said before, will cost something. I consider the area of funding for universities to be a big problem. A strong criticism of the reduced amount of finance by 1.3 billion compared to the 2015 budget is quite appropriate here. The Prime Minister's promises that there will be no cuts in higher education, promises in the government's programming declaration have somehow disappeared and financial declines are occurring, at a time of economic growth. The current expenditure on one student is even lower than it was in 2006. A reduction in the budget for higher education may jeopardise their functioning and quality of the educational process, which will lead to a reduction in the competitiveness of our economy. The impact will also be felt by families of college students whose family budget is already heavily burdened with study-related expenditure. I therefore propose, in my amendment, an increase in the budget for universities of CZK 400 million, namely in the chapter of the General Treasury, to reduce pension insurance and supplementary pension savings by CZK 400 million and increase the budget of the Chapter of the Ministry of Education for higher education by that amount. With regard to the second proposal, the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I have to say here that the government owes a lot in an area that involves the needs of a variety of population groups. Unemployment, availability of housing, social benefits and contributions, pensions, social services. These are just some cases of what needs to be addressed and, of course, financed. However, the budget of this chapter does not correspond to this. Shameful 40 crowns for pensioners, with 54 percent of which will not reach even an average of 11,000 pensions, low contributions to disabled persons, insufficient levels of planned expenditure on employment policy. And this is about half a million registered in the Czech Republic at the employment offices. Needless to say, long-term unemployment contributes to the spread of poverty and homelessness. There is also funding for social services on the border or beyond. Since 2007, employers' unions and regions have been drawing attention to the serious situation in this area. On the deteriorating working conditions of the nurses, on a desperately low salary for their very demanding work. Their earnings are about 7,000 less than the average salary in the Czech Republic. As of 1 January 2014, all the agenda associated with the subsidy procedure for local and regional social service providers has passed to the region. According to the summary information from the medium-term plans for the development of social services, the optimal requirement for transfers for the regions is CZK 12,5 billion. For the next one. The social and health parts have very unfortunately separated from the effectiveness of the Social Services Act. The strict allocation of nursing care and the low level of performance of these activities, along with the low health insurance remuneration and the restrictive approaches of health insurance companies, have led to a gradual reduction in the number of general nurses and other health professionals in social services residence facilities. There are currently only 5862 general nurses working in residential facilities, which is 2.5 thousand fewer than in 2007. At the same time, the needs of these devices are rising. Employers, on the basis of the fact that they are not fully compensated for the wages and salaries of general nurses, are increasingly treated as not providing health care. At the same time, no one denies the need for healthcare, but no one wants to pay for it. The representatives of the Ministry of Health and MPSV are constantly acting and acting and time is running out, and unfortunately, the nurses are also running away with it. There is a threat to the future, but it is already manifesting itself, as I have already said, that nurses will be in the homes of seniors and other social facilities, where their presence, given the infirmity and degree of illness and the disability of clients, is absolutely necessary, that they will be released, because there will simply be no money for them. Who's gonna take care of these people? For this reason, I am putting forward my amendment, the essence of which is to increase the subsidies for this purpose by CZK half a billion. In particular, I propose to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 396 of the State debt on the interest indicator by CZK 450 million and Chapter 355 of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes by CZK 50 million and by these means, a total of CZK 500 million, to increase Chapter 313 of the MPSV to expertise 913, that is to say, the financing of nurses' wages. In conclusion, I will just add that I am signing up for the amendment, which is under number 3267 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u13	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, Minister, I would like to sign up for a joint amendment under House document 3246. The reason is given in this House document, but this is an increase in Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport to increase the contribution to the optional programmes of the European Space Agency. I would also like to sign up for House document 3258. A brief statement of reasons is given in the document. However, this is an increase in the expenditure of Chapter 336 of the Ministry of Justice for programme funding, namely the reconstruction of the former prison in Uherské Hradiště. Furthermore, I would like to subscribe to House document 3259. It is an amendment concerning the expenditure of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It's for ISPROFIN program investment. And lastly, I would like to sign up for House document 3260. Again, these are expenditures of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely a specific indicator of benefits in material distress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u15	I thank Mr Seďa for his proposals. Another party to the detailed debate is Mr Vladislav Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u16	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I was quite embarrassed about the state budget negotiations last year. Embarrassed, in particular, that, if I remember correctly, almost no amendment, which supported the Committee on Budgets, did not even pass last year, happened for the first time. This time, the Committee on Budgets has not approved many of these proposals, so we will see how successful it will be at third reading. It is more or less just an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education and then some transfers that we have already approved on the Social Committee. But unfortunately, because the Social Committee failed to reach the end of the final resolution, it had to be passed through the Budget Committee. However, I would like to go back to the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. You know, at the meeting of the Social Committee, we mostly hear the disappointment of representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that this and that of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs demanded it, but it came across the Ministry of Finance. I confess that I do not intend to make an arbitrary of relations between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, but the truth is that some items actually contain a chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in a very incomplete form. I'm sure you will remember, and after all, Mr Soukup, a fellow Member, remembered that we recently approved the provision of so-called "a week or so ago." one-off pensioner's allowance. Finally, it decided to approve the highest option of CZK 1,200, which makes about CZK 3.4 billion. Crowns. And when I expressed doubts at first reading that the State Budget proposal sets aside some funds for 2016 to cover this financial assistance, it turned out to be justified because it showed at the Social Committee meeting that no funds earmarked to cover the lump sum of the pensioner does not include the State Budget proposal for 2016, although the report on page 39 of the draft State Budget states that both pension and lump-sum expenditure are taken into account in all chapters of the pension service administrators in the draft budget. When I looked at the amended amendments, I do not know if they will all be tabled, so there is a rather significant proposal from the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, a member of Mr Bartošek's government coalition, I do not know if it will be loaded. The proposal consists, in fact, of an announced increase in the allowance for care and, in fact, of the amendment to the Social Services Act. It is quite a special procedure if a member of the government coalition proposes to insert an amendment to the Act on Social Services into the State Budget Act. No offense. It's possible. And it is obvious that we know from open sources, and it was also confirmed at the Social Committee meeting that there is some sort of agreement of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities with representatives of the government coalition to increase the contribution to care at 1. 7. 2016 by 5 percent and by 1. 7. 2017 by another 5 percent. Mr Bartošek in his amended amendment this increase from 1. 7. 2016 calculates to 525 million. CZK and only proposes to obtain these funds from the social support and foster care allowance. They're these numbers games, and when we look at the draft state budget that was submitted, there's no such thing in the chapter. I do not know if it is perfectly normal for Members to settle part of the mandatorial expenditure in the draft budget. This is indicative of the not entirely responsible preparation of some chapters of the state budget, and I think that if I went back to the past, it never happened. I, too, have no choice as a member of the Social Committee, if there are such proposals, to make amendments, which should have been made by the government a long time ago. I am therefore not surprised, and now I am going back to discussing Chapter 313, of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs chapter, that, for example, government Members could not agree at all on the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so that because of the division of government Members, the chapter was not approved at all. Therefore, following what I have said in general, I am making two amendments to Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This is the first point of reducing the social welfare benefit and foster care ratio by 550 million. CZK, that is the amount calculated by Vice-President Bartošek, and I think that the amount corresponds to reality, while increasing the contribution to care under the Social Services Act, in the logic of Mr Bartošek's revised amendment to increase the contribution to care by 5% to 1. 7. 2016. In the second point, I propose to reduce the specific dosage of material distress by 20 miles. CZK and at the same time increase transfers to territorial budgets for social and legal protection of children by 20 million. Crowns. These transfers are of a mandatory nature, which results from the Act on Social and Legal Protection of Children. The current draft budget, just to be clear, is counting on reducing these transfers by 20 million compared to this year's budget. CZK, although it is not possible to assume a drop in the children's placement and neither any of the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs explained why a reduction of 20 million is proposed in this item. Crowns. In my opinion, the reduction in the amount of the benefit indicator in material distress by 20 million. It is also appropriate to take account of Mr Soukup's other proposals and other proposed proposals, taking into account the need to at least avoid the abuse of child benefits. These amendments are contained in the Houses of Document 3280, to which I also apply. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u17	I thank Mr Vilímc. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Berdychová and after her with priority rights, Mr... [[Mrs Berdych doesn't want to get off.]] Okay, so now with priority rights, President Votava. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Vilímec mentioned here the amendment of Vice-President Bartošek. I would like to point out, and I have already told my colleague Bartošek that this amendment is unvoteable. It is not possible to deal with the Act on the State Budget of the Social Services Act. That's just unacceptable. The State Budget Act is governed by a process other than the ordinary law and this is not possible. Although I understand the sense that my colleague wanted to express, it is an unvoteable amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u19	Thank you for this remark. I'm still reporting that Home Secretary Milan Chovanec has a replacement card number 13. Another duly registered member is Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u20	Mr President, fellow Members, Government, fellow Members, allow me to introduce you to the amendment which is derived from the resolution of the Defence Committee and which I am specifying, because the Committee on Budgets could not vote on it and it stated that the source from which the funds would not have been precisely identified was not identified. This is a House document 3250 and the point is that in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury, the specific indicator of the government budget reserve of the original 3 billion 784 million 656 thousand 240 reduces by CZK 2 billion 280 million, and in Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence, the cross-cutting indicator of expenditure maintained in the EDS/SMVS programme financing information system increases by CZK 2 billion 280 million. This increase will be reflected in the relevant chapter indicators in the draft State Budget Act for 2016. Now allow me a few words for reasons. The budget committee resolution on the proposal for such an increase in the Ministry of Defence chapter, i.e. defence expenditure, is based on how we assessed the security situation in which Europe is located and the condition of the Army of the Czech Republic and the situation in which we are. The current draft budget, without an amendment, is less than 48 billion, representing roughly 0.98% of GDP compared to our commitment to give 2 percent of GDP in defence. After deduction of the amount of less than 7 billion, which includes, in the defence budget in particular, pension expenditure, we therefore reach a limit of 0,9 or even below 0,9 per cent of GDP, i.e. We are among the three countries in the North Atlantic Alliance, which issue the least defense. At the same time, we are not even at the level of 50 billion, which we consider to be the border from which the armed forces can develop and modernise far more significantly, and according to the analysis, we are not even at the rate of increase in defense spending, which was part of the coalition agreement. The proposal goes and allocates resources especially to modernization of equipment and corresponds to the need to quickly increase the fighting capacity of our army, i.e. they do not go to wages and personnel expenses. At present, and there is no doubt about it, we are, in terms of defense, the stowaway of the North Atlantic Alliance and our allies, both in terms of the performance of our army and in terms of spending. Proof is that we are once again involved in any operation against the Islamic State only by supporting the fighting forces, i.e. hospitals or chemical protection and not participation in these fighting forces. Here, too, we will rely on the security of Europe, and thus on our security to be won by others. That, in my opinion, is the definition of a stowaway position. Our allies are currently changing budgetary policy very quickly. According to fresh analyses, the minimum could be described as cutting cuts. We haven't even started this process yet. This means restoring modernization programs in armaments, in unit equipment and in combat performance on the side of our allies does not find adequate response in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence for next year. I know that this is a significant change, I know that the committee has discussed this resolution very carefully, we have discussed the condition of our armed forces, we have discussed the need for modernisation, the pace of modernisation and, of course, there is an argument that the defence department is not draining all available resources. Let me say, in this respect, to the address and defence of both the resort and the army, that to some extent this resort has been operating for a long time as an ATM and has been strangled to such an extent that it has almost lost its absorption capacity and has a difficult palpable heartbeat. That means if we're going to assume that he can't draw and restore his abilities, does that mean we want to accept it? I don't think so. I realize that this is a lot of money, but very big changes in the security of Europe and Europe itself are taking place in front of our eyes. Let us not be irresponsible in this regard, please, like some previous generations of Czech and Czechoslovak politicians. On the contrary, let us act responsibly. We've already paid enough to be irresponsible in our history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u21	I thank Mr Gabal, now with priority rights, the President of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, I must also point out here, through your honored colleague Gabal, that there is no way of robbing a government budget reserve in quotes like this. The government's budgetary reserve, the amount of funds that are earmarked for the government's budgetary reserve, is governed by a law of 0.3 per cent of total expenditure, which is something more than 3.8 billion, and you would essentially use 2.8 billion of it for a good purpose, I do not question it, but it cannot be done because the government's budgetary reserve would have to be supplemented by that amount somehow, because it needs to be approved at a legal level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u23	I thank the President of the Committee on Budgets for this point of fact. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u24	Thank you. Thank you for your help. I, too, understand, of course, the reminder by the President of the Committee on Budgets that we cannot rob the government's budget reserve. So will we wait for someone to rob us of our prosperity and security? Or will we rely on our allies to deploy their budget reserves in an extreme situation, including the risks of the lives of their soldiers? Is that the price of this budget reserve for us?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u25	I thank Mr Gabal. With priority rights, the President of the Committee on Budgets. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u26	Thank you for the floor. No, you really need to stay within the limits of the law, and the law just says something about the budget. This is what I said, what the government's budget reserve should be. Of course, following the approval of the budget, the government can deal with the government's budgetary reserve and can allocate from the government's budgetary reserve, if necessary, the funds that Mr Gabal wanted already during the budget discussion, in order to be earmarked from the government's budgetary reserve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister. With a factual remark, Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u28	Thank you. By your means, I would recommend to the President that he have this bill printed in sufficient quantities and assigned it to the armament of our soldiers who are going to fight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u29	I thank Mr Gabal. With another factual remark, Mrs Černochová, then with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u30	Thank you. In response to what Ivan Gabal said here, I would ask colleagues from the government coalition to look for a way in, not a reason. This really, what Ivan Gabal said here is a resolution adopted by the Defence Committee across the political spectrum. It didn't really matter if there was someone from the opposition or someone from the coalition. The security situation in the Czech Republic, in the world around us, is what it is. And if any of you guys here think they're gonna get better, get off the cherries. It's not like that. This situation will be worse and worse, and in the past year our Defence Committee has already warned us about this. We asked for a budget increase last year. It didn't work out. So, I beg you all, let's stop politicating and argue about whether someone's robbing from some treasury administration or chapter within reserves, and let's find a way to put the money in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u31	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Kalousek, after him, Mr Seďa. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u32	Thank you. I, in substance, agree with the defence committee's proposal. But then there's the rule and the law. This rule states that the State Budget Act cannot be amended by any other law or by the Budgetary Rules Act. And the Budgetary Rules Act simply states that the minimum amount of the government's budgetary reserve is 0.3 %, nothing will be done about that. In other words, in my opinion, at a time when any amendment would reduce the level of this statutory reserve, the proposal is unvoteable. I have always done so, and I am convinced that it is by law and that we cannot break the law even for the noblest thoughts. In other words, yes, I agree with that, but the plaintiff must beat it against other items than the government's budget reserve. Not that there aren't enough. Then beat it against non-investment subsidies, business entities. So Minister Babiš will have less money for business and we will have more money for defense. But it cannot be beaten against the government's budget reserve at a time when it would fall below the legal level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u33	Thank you to President Kalousek. With another factual remark, Mr Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just very briefly. I'd be the last one who wouldn't wish the armed forces a budget increase. I agree with the Chairman of the TOP 09, that this is a bit problematic. Perhaps it would still be good to modify this proposal. But I would have two things. One thing concerns the security situation. I think it's more of a government issue, i.e. all power resorts. And as part of the State Security Council, they should have fun dealing with both the financing of both the security forces and the armed forces. That's the first thing. And the other thing. I'm not 100% sure that the resort would spend this money effectively. The reason is simple. In the past x years, at least two or three years, the resort has not been able to spend around 4 billion. Crowns. It's a system of purchases and acquisitions of military equipment. So even here, we need to find a solution as quickly as possible. I'm glad the Minister of Defence is looking for this solution. We'll see what happens in the future. Then there's the question of the kvačr, too, i.e. The concept of the construction of the Army of the Czech Republic, because it has to do with it, also with the budget and budget proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u35	Thank you, Mr Seďa. With a point of fact, Mr Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u36	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to thank both the President and President Kalousek for your clarification. With his help, we will now see if we can find any other solution, because Jana Černochová is right, that we need to find a legislative conformal solution. I was primarily trying to argue that the defence committee's opinion should be taken seriously in terms of both the assessment of the security situation and our ability to respond adequately to it by the armed forces. And we're gonna try to find that solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u37	Then that the debate in the Chamber of Deputies is barren. I thank Mr Gabal. Now with priority rights, the Minister of Defence. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in such a two-time situation because, on the one hand, it can certainly be seen positively that Members of the committee responsible support the increase, are very keenly interested in the matter and argue with strong arguments. On the other hand, I do have to stand up for the budget a little bit, because especially for this budget, numbers can be quite successful. Of course, the two-percent bond of GDP is some kind of alliance mantra, and I'm sure I won't question it here. On the other hand, we all know that relatively high GDP growth this year simply penalizes us in terms of this percentage. And I think that's fair to say. If we took the 2013 Gross National Product and our current Ministry of Defence budget, we're at 1.2%. If we take a percentage of the total budget, defense spending is 4 percent. If we compare the 2015 budget and the one that lies here before you for 2016, there's an increase of 9 percent. The 9 percent increase is roughly two or three alliance countries in Europe. For God's sake, I'm not saying the army doesn't need more. I'm not saying 50 billion. is not the threshold for the ability to really develop and not just punch holes. But given what has also been said here from the point of view of the need for the budget reserve, I will be very happy if there is any other way. And I can guarantee you that at this point we're already preparing, even if this doesn't happen at all, other projects that might possibly be able to absorb any increase meaningfully. So thank you, on the one hand, for the support, for the argument, on the other hand, I just wanted to say in a few words that the 2016 budget allows the military to breathe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u39	Thank you, Secretary of Defense. With a factual remark, Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was in Paris at a time when some of you were watching what's happening there, from here. Unfortunately, I was at the place where it happened. And it looks a little different than when you're looking at it from a distance. All of a sudden, you'll find that these politicians are deciding in seconds, in hours and in days, as political representation normally has been deciding for years. In addition to the fact that the Francouz have found that the Brit like them, they have made many different measures such as a state of emergency, deepening the cooperation of secret services, budgetary measures that mean significant strengthening of the interior and the army, etc. I think the situation is really serious and it needs to be perceived as reality. The proposal can, of course, be supported factually, but it is more difficult to work into the budget somehow. I think there might be some kind of agreement in France where Hollande called all the opposition representatives and said to them, "Hey, now, don't be silly, now is really not the time. And you see, it works. I think that there could be a consensus here either that we are all prepared in seconds, within minutes, to strengthen the government's budgetary reserve within hours so that the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic can be ensured in the maximum way, or to agree at this point that we will not take from the budget reserve into the chapter, but that, on the contrary, we will increase the government's budgetary reserve, which could be prepared for such a moment. Let's take this seriously. Let's not think of it as a remote story, a TV show. This is a reality we can't get rid of. This is a reality that can reach us. Let us simply behave in this really very politically but responsibly towards the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u41	I thank Mr Urban. Another duly registered member is Mr Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u42	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, let me present here and sign up for the following amendment. The amendment is fully in line with the resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and concerns, in essence, the following amendments to the Chapter 377 Technological Agency of the Czech Republic as part of the overall indicators. I would like to start by saying that this is a transfer of funds under the chapter, it is not an increase. The amendment is as follows: (a) In cross-cutting indicators of Chapter 377 Staff salaries and other payments for the work done increase the amount of CZK 32 189 991 by CZK 10 000 000 to CZK 42 189 991, (b) In cross-section indicator of Chapter 377 Compulsory insurance premiums paid by the employer increase the amount of CZK 10 944 597 by CZK 3 400 000 to CZK 14 344 597, (c) In cross-cutting indicators Total expenditure on research, development and innovation including programmes co-financed by foreign programmes, institutional support in total, increase the amount of CZK 106 428 000 by CZK 28 400 000 to CZK 134 828 000, (d) In the cross-cutting indicator Total expenditure on research, development and innovation including programmes co-financed by foreign programmes, in which total dedicated support, reduce the amount of CZK 2 852 511 000 by CZK 28 400 000 to CZK 2,824 111 000. I introduced this amendment into the system under No. 3287 and I am signing up for this amendment. Reason for the proposal: The Technological Agency essentially requests the transfer of funds of 28,4 million. CZK from special-purpose support to institutional support. This amount is composed, as I said before, of 10 miles. to the employee's salary and other payments for the work done, 3.4 million. to the indicator Compulsory insurance paid by the employer and another 15 million. to the R&D&I expenditure indicator due to the acquisition of a new information system. The Ministry of Finance decided to comply with the last request of the Technological Agency and with the first request of the Technological Agency. 1. 2016 increases the number of posts to the main employment by ten, i.e. to fifty-nine. The funds for these places were transferred from the Ministry of Finance from the budget of the TA CR from the item of other personal expenses. So the Technological Agency, as I have already said, dares to request a transfer from dedicated expenditure to institutional expenditure in 2016 of 28 400 000 in the above composition. The most important thing about this request is that the Technological Agency does not have any requirements for additional funds from the state budget, as I have already said. It's about moving within the chapter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u43	I thank Mr Rais. Mr. Vice-President of the House Jan Bartošek. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my amendments were mentioned here in a detailed debate, with the fact that they are unvoting. I've looked into it, and the fact is, I've been led by good intentions, and that's because the care allowance hasn't been validated for years. This group of residents really deserves this contribution to care to be increased within the framework of social justice. I have therefore decided to amend my amendment in such a way that it can be put to the vote. I'll read it. In Chapter 313 of the State Budget for 2016, the specific indicator of active employment policy is reduced by an amount of 520 million. For an amount of 520 miles. the specific indicator of the contribution to care under the Social Services Act will be increased. The point is that negotiations with representatives of the National Council for Disabilities resulted in the need to strengthen the budgetary resources from which care allowances are paid, and I am more or less creating room for the Ministry to address the situation. So I am not applying to the previous amendments because they are unvoting, and I have read this new one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u45	I thank Vice-President Bartošek. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the liberty of signing up for my amendment, which you will find in the system under No. 3278. Now, in brief, I would like to introduce you to what this is about. It relates to Chapter 315 of the Ministry of the Environment, where I propose the transfer of an amount intended to support the operation of rescue stations for disabled wildlife. I note that my amendment does not entail any extra costs, it merely technically moves within the scope of the chapter. That means no one gets hooked and no one gets added. The money was earmarked for this and it is only classified in the wrong category where it is not possible to drain it. Let me get this straight. Basically within the Czech Republic there is a safety net which is partially financed by the state. The state contribution for these organisations is about one third. There was quite a broad discussion in the preparation of the budget, when there was essentially agreement on the amount of the contribution to the stations, which overall makes about 12 miles. in Bohemia. However, this amount, which was actually increased by the budget, was included in the category Environmental Protection Activities, but in recent years these funds were in the Landscape Care Programme, where category C was created under the internal directive of the Ministry of Environment, which directly counted on the financing of stations. For example, classification in a new category does not allow, for example, funding for stations that are set up by non-governmental organisations, such as zoos, or the largest Prague station is established by the Forests of the capital city of Prague, so that these stations would not be able to draw. In addition, even in the Landscape Care Program category, the amount retained remained about 5 miles. to finance the stations, so there would be double funding. Therefore, for this reason, I propose to move from the budget heading of the Environmental Protection Activities to the Landscape Care Programme, where the system is already established and rescue stations can draw from it and there has been no problem in the past. That is my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u47	Thank you, Mr Zemek. Another duly registered member is Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to read three amendments here. They're in the system under number 3246 and two under number 3247. Short comment. The Economic Committee was at an exit meeting in the Ústí Region. I know that the National Park of Bohemian Switzerland is such a cinder for the time being when it comes to equipment, infrastructure and its future. In addition to promoting and supporting major projects across the political spectrum, we have promised that we will perhaps start with smaller ones. It is a region that is heavily plagued by structural unemployment. The elite are leaving there. One of the chances that is not mentioned because the Ústí region is always seen as a place devastated, but actually has a number of very valuable natural sites that are a tourist hook. [[10.20 hours]] Therefore, even in the past one of them, which is today's Czech Switzerland National Park, meets them. That's why we agreed to protect him here in the past. I would therefore like to speak in favour of this proposal, which has not just passed through the Committee on Budgets. It's from the General Treasury chapter. It is partly to promote innovation in the various property affairs of the state, where there is certainly a reserve. That means it doesn't increase the demands on the state budget. It's just a transfer to the environmental chapter. Another suggestion is a bit of a moral issue. It's not a dramatic amount again. This is a transfer of CZK 758,000 from the Ministry of Defence chapter to the USTR. It is unclear to me that I took part in a meeting where the issue of recognition or non-recognition of document procurement and decision-making on the third resistance was to be addressed in some way. Things are dragging around, and the whole thing is a moral disgrace. A lot of people, a number of applicants won't live to see the verdict of a decision, and I think it's a disgrace to this country. A solution was promised. None of the routes indicated have been put into practice, and I therefore propose that this matter be dealt with in such a way that the Ministry of Transport promptly prepares all the necessary documents in an accelerated procedure so that the Ministry can acknowledge this quickly, because it is the decisive body. [[properly defense]] If you do not agree with this proposal at the third vote, I would ask very much that the Minister of Defence speak here and promise that he will simply resolve the matter. This is no dramatic money, but it is a dramatic embarrassment. Thus, my third proposal is not about small money, i.e. it is a joint proposal that we are giving to Mr Pilný. A colleague of mine, Seďa, has read yet because there has been some disagreement between us. I am also assuming a similar proposal, and I did not have time to contact Mr Snopek, who also applies to this proposal, so please take into account that we are proposing this here across the political spectrum, and this concerns the ESA mentioned above. Last year we proposed that the Ministry of Transport's budget be strengthened so that the Czech Republic can, respectively. its firms were able to participate in the optional parts of the ESA programme. We finance, virtually. our budget is funded by the mandatory part. There may have been an increase, but this is for a one-time project involving a company from the United States. However, I would appeal very much to you to strengthen the budget so that purely Czech companies, which are very successful in this, take part in this. The Minister of Finance, I assume that the Minister of Transport, too, has been given material with economic justification that this is not a disadvantageous subsidy or support, that it will return many times. I know how huge the lobby has been, how much pressure has been on this in recent years, and the Ministry of Finance has complied with it, and has done so generously to support and finance financial incentives for the Czech film. I don't remember now how much support there was, or the effect that every invested crown would bring. Just to remind you that common practice, but not only in the most developed countries, but also in the countries around us, is that the return of each inserted crown to cosmic research is 190 crowns. So I'm begging you to consider it. Again, my proposal, our proposal, is not aimed at increasing the deficit of the state budget, only from the General Treasury, where there is an item that is even to support innovation plus some property affairs of the state and any arbitration or whatever it is called, and the chapter of the Ministry of Transport is strengthened. We're here to argue about Law 130. I just have to say that there are a number of things in the budget to support the country's extensive issues, but unfortunately there is no support for intensive issues. I watch tripartite meetings almost daily, trade unions, where there is great weeping, why there are no higher salaries in the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, they will not be higher if we build logistics warehouses here or they build multinational companies here until we invest in unnecessary support that does not have a future, just so that the selected part of the companies can help each other as long as we create a cushion for a certain segment of the food market to push even further into the corner of the seller. I would therefore argue too much, it seems like dramatic money, but I believe that and those who participate in the actions of the aviation, cosmonautic and innovation subcommittee know that the support works well. When I took up the chair of the subcommittee, I immediately received various embassadors, who stole what, who had wasted what, but I have to say in spite of some reservations that, as the Ministry of Industry and Trade in recent years, coached these aids for innovative support that you will find in those companies that it works. And then there are completely different salaries. That's where social potential is created. So not handing out non-perspective subsidies, but actually moving the money into the innovative one that guarantees social potential. There's a shortage of labor today. So it's reconnected to education. And there are also salaries that start from 35, 40 and more thousand crowns in those companies for ordinary workers upstairs. That's the future. There's no future that's being applied, and there's a budget that I would be projecting at this point in time. So once again, I am applying to the amendments under 3246 and 3247. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u49	I thank Mr Laudát. Another duly registered member is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u50	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my speech, I will table an amendment. I would just like to comment first on the way in which the draft state budget, namely its Chapter 315, concerns the Ministry of the Environment, is being discussed. We discussed that chapter on the Environment Committee. Unfortunately, the Minister of the Environment did not find time to discuss it, he was not present at the meeting, and unfortunately he was not present at the meeting either. So the draft budget for the Environment Committee was presented by State Secretary Landa. So it seems that officials are actually taking over the government gradually. Secondly, I would like to comment on the formal form of the budget, namely the budget of the chapter. It is divided into expenditure blocks and expenditure headings, while these individual parts are not assigned anywhere any numerical identifier, so it is both hard to find there and very badly when we talk about the budget, it refers to individual amounts. So it is always necessary to read and express the whole name of the relevant block or the relevant circuit. I think that's a mistake. I suggested that the chapter be returned to the recast, unfortunately, without success. [[10.30 hours]] Furthermore, I would like to make a specific statement. So what I lack in the budget is a relatively higher financial evaluation of activities related to the ever-increasing threat of drought, money spent on creating and increasing the accumulation capacity of the landscape so that it can accumulate water, whether in the form of potential future water tanks, or only direct small measures, which would increase the absorption capacity of the landscape. In the programme of support for the natural functions of the landscape, only 30 million are proposed for the future year. Kč. So if we were to figure out what to do with the ponds and how to increase their absorption capacity, the muddying of a hectare of pond costs about a million crowns, so this is about 30 hectares. These are not even all the ponds that the state has in its direct possession. At the same time, however, the level of funding is increasing dramatically from year to year to support non-governmental non-profit organisations and their non-investment activities. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. CZK 20 million in 2015 CZK and in 2016 the Ministry proposes CZK 32 million. Kč. A colleague, Zemek, mentioned here a rather unclear state of affairs regarding the financing of stations for injured or handicapped animals. When I asked about it, the purpose of the 12 million, which is increased to non-governmental non-profit organisations in the environment by their non-investment subsidies, none of the ministers present was able to answer me exactly what the money would be for. Perhaps they said it might be something on the station for handicapped animals. On the other hand, it can be found, and colleague Zemek has also done so, that there is money in other parts of the budget for financing this activity even in the case of other entities. Of course, handicapped animals are also cared for by non-governmental nonprofits, especially zoos and others. So there's 12 miles. it is possible to determine in some way and it can be feared that it would be money for other activities of NGOs that none of us can control. Yesterday, there was a triumph of activists from the State Renovation when you passed the contract disclosure law. A year ago, environmental activists triumphed here when the EIA Environmental Impact Assessment Act was passed, which gives them enormous power. Today, everyone who wants to build is terrified of the duty to return to already approved projects and to approved environmental impact assessments. These assessments must be redesigned. Ecological activists are now re-entering the game and will have a great influence on what will be built and what will not be built with us. No one here has heard our warning, the law you passed in the form that environmentalists here have a huge influence. I think that the subsidy title for non-profit organisations should therefore be reduced; money should be spent to finance measures to increase the country's retention capacity. I proposed an amendment, which is registered as House document 3277 and which proposes that in Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment for 2016, the expenditure block on nature and landscape protection, the expenditure heading on improvement of nature and landscape status, there is an increase in funding in the 115 160 programme to support the restoration of natural landscape functions by 12 million. CZK and in the same chapter, the expenditure heading of other activities in the environment, the expenditure heading of environmental protection activities under non-investment subsidies to non-profit organisations was reduced by 12 million. Kč. So there's an increase in funds in one item in the same chapter, and there's a reduction in funds in the other item in the same chapter. In fact, in my opening speech before presenting this proposal, I justified the proposal, which is why I am done with the reasoning. In view of the fact that this is a detailed debate, I formally sign up for the amendment under number 3277. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u51	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Have a good morning. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Zemek, Mr Kučera, has the first. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must therefore respond to the previous speaker, Mr Zahradník, about the increase in the non-investment cost category to non-profit organisations by 12 million. These, Mr President, are the very means that have been agreed, virtually. which have been negotiated for the operation of stations for handicapped animals only have been classified in another category. So that's about 12 miles. non-investment funds are not raised by environmental organisations, but they are funds intended for those stations. And so unfortunately, it happened there that it ended up in this drawer, instead of ending up in that PPK, which is actually what my amendment does. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u53	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Kučera and Mr Zahradník after. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u54	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must join my predecessor to Mr Zahradník, saying that I also consider it an outrage that the budget of the Ministry of Environment on the Committee on the Environment has not come to defend either the Minister or any of his representatives, but an official. But that's not the main reason I got off here. I mean, in a formal way, and this has already been discussed by Mr Zahradník here, the material presented is absolutely trivial. If Minister Brabec had presented this material to his board of directors as manager, he would probably be the last material to present in his professional career - tables without numbers, without labels, unreadable tables, pages without numbers, without labels, graphs outside the fluctuation band. These are absolutely trivial matters, and it only documents how the Department of the Environment appreciates the work of the House. However, the most important thing. I have long wondered whether I should address this in the form of some amendments, but it is so crucial that, of course, this cannot be resolved by means of an amendment. I would like to point out how much funding is devoted to the state budget for environmental protection. This is significantly less than in a time of economic crisis. Here it shows how the government has priorities, how it appreciates the environment and how it wants to protect it. While in 2009 it was 4.6 billion, in 2010, i.e. in a deep economic crisis of 4.1 billion, for next year it is 3.2 billion, which means a billion less than in a time of crisis, which I consider to be really inadequate and I would like to call on the Minister of the Environment not to grow in the next budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u55	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u56	Mr Vice-President, I am, of course, turning to my colleague Zemek by your means, but I have already said that it is not possible to conceal the fact that we are increasing subsidies to non-governmental non-profits by some sort of confusion, a rather significant confusion that is in Chapter 315 for the Ministry of the Environment. This mess may be going through the whole budget. The orientation in it is shameful. I've said this before, there's no way to get a numerical reference between the individual circuits, between the blocks, between the graphs. It's just really bad, so I have to say this very critically. However, no one was able to find any subsidies for handicapped animal stations when we asked about the committee. They weren't able to explain where the money would be found. They are actually there, hidden there in the form of subsidies for established organizations, which establish a ministry or possibly a zoo in Hluboká nad Vltavou, which operates a beautiful station for handicapped animals, which in turn establishes the South Bohemia Region, subsidizes it from its means. So let's not pretend that we want to subsidize NGOs here, while we'll cover money for them with some noble reason to protect handicapped or injured animals. Unfortunately, it has great influence, but unfortunately it is beginning to manifest itself. And it will manifest itself in the coming years, when the EIA stops working, even worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u57	Thank you. I want to ask you, Minister, you are your factual point - because you deleted it, so I didn't know if it lasted. So it does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues. Well, classic colleagues didn't fail, and it was Radio Jerevan as usual. So I was represented by the Secretary of State on the committee, but you, as colleagues - through you, Mr President - who deal with the environment, I am convinced that Mr Landa also said it there, he is not only the Secretary of State, but I have therefore combined this function with my deputy in charge of the economy as part of the savings. And he was in charge of her from the start. That means he's not only the Secretary of State, but he's got the economic section under him and he's had it from the beginning. So he's my first statutory representative. I'm sorry, I couldn't be there for business reasons. I'll definitely be there next time. You know I go to the committee, too. But I would never send a clerk there, believe me, just some clerk. I sent a highly qualified man in charge of the economics section from the start. So it's just about the unnecessary attack. And now I don't know if it was out of ignorance or on purpose. But that's what Radio Jerevan is to me. About the rescue station measures, we were the ones who added more money to these stations after your governments. In that first year, we added them $10 million, so now we've added $5 million. That means the money's in there. They're in this one, as my colleague Zemek said. That means the 12 million there really - it's not for NGOs, but it's for animal protection stations. That's quite clear. We can talk about whether the money's in the right box. I believe so, but I'm not afraid or opposed to the debate. From the perspective of measures on water retention in the landscape, we have CZK 8 billion in the Environment Operational Programme by the end of 2020, and we want to use this money there. That means, we're not counting on funding it from national sources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u59	Your time, Minister. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u60	Thank you. Last sentence, last two sentences. About tables - the budget has, in addition to page numbering, respectively. tables, exactly the same structure as last year. I don't know what the problem is. My colleagues informed me that everything had finally been explained. You're saying no. I'm sure I'll look into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u61	Thank you. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u62	Thank you for the floor. I'm actually very amused by Minister Brabec right now. If your guy who deals most with finance is able to present such a budget, I'm really worried about how the Ministry of the Environment works. I repeat again - there is no reading in the budget, there is no searching in the budget. Even the person you think is the highest finance specialist has not been able to find the required data. If you consider pages called "Model Form No. 1.5," "Model Form No. 1.5," "Model Form No. 1.5," "Model Form No. 1.5," "Model Form No. 1.5," etc., as a clear budget, I am also sorry. You said you were giving more money than the previous governments. Of course you're lying. Please check your budget. The budget is lower - I repeat - than at the time of the economic crisis when we put it into the environment - [[unintelligible speeches from benches]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u63	I'll ask you, colleagues, not to shout at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u64	We have put significantly more resources into the environment than we do today. The priority of this government is not the environment, it is not the protection of the environment. The priorities are elsewhere. It seems to be subsidies for biofuels and other items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u65	Thank you, too. No one with a factual point of view is to be reported. We will continue the proper debate. I will therefore ask for Mr Bendl's speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleagues here, in the form of the Minister of the Environment, had a partner, even though the debate was sharp. I will turn to the Minister of Agriculture, who has not come among us, but we have become accustomed to the fact that the Minister does not take part in such essential matters concerning his department. Anyway, get to the point. I would like to sign up for my amendment, or perhaps a supplemental one, I would call it, a proposal under number 3289, which relates precisely to the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, namely Chapter 329. I spoke to her in quite detail at the meeting of the agricultural committee, so I will not repeat the details of what is really lacking in the budget. Overall, the budget is also lower than other chapters of the state budget. Although the state budget has higher incomes, agricultural expenditure generally falls in the state budget, with a relatively significant amount of more than CZK 5 billion. However, there will be funds for repairs of chapels and new establishment of organizations, new recruitment of officials, etc. That's quite a lot of stuff in that chapter. But what I believe is to be there and to be seen significantly more is a threat from the point of view of drought. The measures planned by the Czech Republic are very small. The amount of CZK 200 million is completely ridiculous for the whole Czech Republic, which is for cleaning ponds etc. Those are the things I think we're going to have to step up. Working on measures against drought - I think this summer has made it clear that it can be one of the important, really important dangers that the Czech Republic will face in the future. And the fact that the government has dealt with this, but it has dealt with it so that by June next year it will analyse what is actually necessary for the next months and years to do something fundamental with the drought, I think it is really late, and that if we have some programmes here that have been discussed with the European Union in the past, that we should contribute more significantly to them, and not the sum of CZK 200 million, which I really consider very, very low in this respect for the Czech Republic. Just as, while I am happy on the one hand, in the previous state budget discussion last year, I proposed strengthening the flood, this was rejected on the Committee on Agriculture, and consequently the amendment rejected the coalition majority at the Chamber of Deputies. This year, the coalition is essentially proposing what we proposed last year, and I note that almost nothing has changed. And in the past, I've been dehonested here a little bit by the fact that the funds are not needed, that no one really wants them, that no one wants them and that the Czech Republic is unable to exhaust them. Now he's proposing a coalition, and I support it, the strengthening of drip irrigation and irrigation in general, that's right, it's a good direction, but it's not enough. It won't be significant at all. I think that what the Czech Republic is potentially in danger needs to be perceived much more fundamentally. [[10.50 hours]] Chapter 329 admits - and I asked the Minister of Finance here last time whether he could answer that question and whether he was somehow counting on it, I assume that either now or at least in the third reading I will receive some answers, because the material says that there is no money for the chapter, in a volume of about 1.5 billion. Kč. I'll read it so everyone knows what I'm talking about. It is on page 9 at the end: The draft budget for 2016 does not fully cover all the financial needs of the resort, especially in the area of national subsidies to agriculture, which are needed to ensure a gradual balance between the Czech Republic and the founding states of the European Union. In the area of national subsidies to agriculture, the resort does not have a subsidy programme of 1 billion. and half a billion are missing for PGRLF stock companies. That means even government material admits that this amount is missing here. I want to ask if the Treasury Secretary is counting on him to cover it, or where that amount will be covered from. A proposal was made at the agricultural committee's meeting or some information was given that there were some unused claims. The question is, how big are they going to be and if this is going to be enough? My amendment, although I should and I have thousands of reservations about the individualities of Chapter 329 of Agriculture, but it is clear to me that the government's majority coalition cylinder will simply not release anything that the opposition proposes, but I will at least try to come up with a proposal that might be transparent and that would guide the Ministry of Agriculture a little bit in the potential desire to waste money where the Czech Republic's priorities are not. My amendment is: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Minister of Agriculture to give priority to dealing with drought and forest development during 2016. I was talking about drought. Plus the forestry business. Why forestry? For the second time, the Minister of Agriculture has submitted a proposal to the House reducing expenditure to support the development of forestry in general. I'm talking about the unstate woods. Since a number of regions are unfortunately also in the Czech Republic, although the state has transferred funds to support the development of forests and non-state forests over the past parliamentary periods, it does not use and use these funds in favour of the development of the forest, and given that the state has been contributing to this for the second year and the state, it is, in my view, from the perspective of future generations and perhaps also the maintenance of water in the landscape that we are talking about intensively, it is a mistake and it is wrong. Therefore, I would like the Chamber of Deputies to put at least some limits on the Minister of Agriculture, which means to say - all the funds that the Ministry of Agriculture will not spend in accordance with the proposed law and will want to transfer them somewhere else, to transfer them to the area of the implementation of the drought, or to the development of forestry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u67	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Adámek is next in line. Mrs Zelienková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u68	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I took the liberty, in agreement with my co-submitters, who are colleagues of Procházka, Kolovratník and Šincl, to submit to you an amendment which I would like to read first. I feel obliged to justify it as a member of the body you set up, and that is the subcommittee on culture. It is a House document 3286, which reads: In the expense block B5 cultural services, support of living art, b) cultural activities of Chapter 334 Ministry of Culture from the amount of CZK 536 716 783 by binding indicators determine the amount of CZK 44 985 000 and divide it as follows: 17 million. for the Prague Spring International Music Festival, 8,070 mil. for the international music festival Český Krumlov, 5.915 mil. for the international opera festival Smetana's Litomyšl, 5 miles. for the international music festival Dvořákova Praha, 4 mil. for international theatre and music festival Janáček Brno, 1.5 mil. for international music festival Janáček May and 3.5 mil. for the international music festival Czech Music Touches. I think it is important - I don't want to keep you long - to explain why my colleagues and I, especially my colleague Procházka, have gone this way. I would like to read the reasoning contained in the amendment: the Ministry of Culture has not submitted a programme for financing classical music festivals until today. We present this amendment on the basis of the resolution of the Sub-Committee on Culture of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and, in particular, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which supported this proposal almost unanimously. We would also like to stress that the Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic, Mr Daniel Herman, delivered a favourable opinion on the proposal when discussing the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports of the Chamber of Deputies. These are festivals of classical music, which are not only a musical phenomenon of Czech culture, but also significantly contribute to the development of tourism, services, employment and promotion of the Czech Republic. I would like to delay you for a moment and stress some of the aspects that are sloganfully mentioned in the amendment. I would like to emphasise - and I consider this to be absolutely fundamental - that this is not an accident, that we are talking about a long-term interest, say, and now forgive me, about saving the family silver, as was once mentioned in this House. Because I really consider the Prague Spring when I say it in short, Český Krumlov, Smetana Litomyšl, Dvořák's Prague and after all all the other festivals, as they are listed there, as family silver, and especially today, I do not want to specify this in my opinion, and not only my, after all, as I have already mentioned, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports has clearly signed up to this, to support these one of the basic attributes or great attributes - I stress - classical music. Perhaps it is good to say a few more words about the systemic nature of this view. There are large debates that are being held on this subject, as I have said, over two years ago, about whether the system is being deposited from the position of the Chamber of Deputies by means of the Act on the Budget of the Ministry of Culture, where it specifically has the money that we are talking about - and I would like to emphasise in this context that it is clear to everyone that we are not talking about any change in the budget, that only on the basis of some of the criteria that we have put on the subcommittee, which we have put on the committee, and which I hope the House will also adopt. The criteria are basically very clear. I've already talked about this in part. First, unfortunately, even though I know that the Ministry is working intensively on this, there is no comprehensive programme to finance such important festivals. You know, sometimes I get the impression that we simply mix and connect the unconnected in the preparation of the program and the opinions. [[11.00 hours]] I'll allow myself to move it a little bit into a sporting issue that maybe many of us understand more. I sometimes feel like we're assessing water polo and football based on the same criteria in culture - and now the sport equivalent. That's not possible. Every sport, every industry, and every festival has a different mission, and has a long-term effect on a different level. We cannot evaluate the festival, such as the Prague Spring, which has a budget of 81 million this year, or by chance Český Krumlov, which has a budget of 40 million, and others, and I could continue this way, with certainly significant and certainly beneficial for the mess of Czech culture festivals or events of district format. It's just not possible. These things must be clearly separated. And since it hasn't happened yet, that's why, and let me say, we have been very hesitant with our colleague Procházka, especially if we are to go this way, and yet not to get into the situation that was here last year. Perhaps many of you remember a rather turbulent debate and debate on this subject during the last budget approval. It must be said, to the credit of Minister Herrman, that at that time he basically respected what he promised behind this counter that he would not let these festivals fall, but it was, let's say, some enormous effort and I would say, in particular, the sensitivity of the Ministry of Finance, specifically Minister Babiš, that he had freed up this money for culture and that, in essence, I dare say, one minute after the 12th, he managed to finance some of these important cultural events that I am talking about. I won't talk much longer, just to conclude one or two things. I would like to emphasise what is once again one sentence in the explanatory memorandum, and that is the multiplier effect that we are talking about. Because when, in cooperation with the Ministry and others, for example, with the Association of Music Festivals, we intended this, and this is not the process now in this proposal, this is the two-year process, because the Sub-Committee on Culture began to deal with this issue almost six months after its establishment in the spring of 2014 and adopted several resolutions thanks to its colleagues because they understand this issue. And that's it - and I'm going back to the multiplier effect. That's just the fact that some criterion from the point of view of the specialty quotes we're talking about, these festivals, let's say, the economic parameter was chosen, and that was the turnover of 10 million. Today, we have a precise calculation, and I will not overwhelm you with the figures of how much one crown inserted into such projects will bring into the state budget. And then it's another thing, and I think it's very up-to-date, and that's, let's say, some kind of transparency. Because by actually giving the money to us, and I hope it will be precisely determined, if you take the positions that I'm talking about, they'll be precisely intended for these festivals, so we'll just remove the fact that the directors of the festivals will go to the Ministry, and forgive me for saying this, they'll be knocking head-on, like they used to say. For those who do not understand me, they will knock forehead, because they will have their hands full, which has become dense in the past. I'm not saying today. But I think we need to do everything we can to prevent these things. I won't talk anymore, I won't keep you. I am prepared to interrogate any of my colleagues and explain more deeply and closely. Thank you and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u69	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'm registering two factual points and then one application with priority rights. The first, with a factual point, is Mrs Berdychová, and after that, Mr Kolovratník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot agree with the proposal made by Mr Adámek. I have already done so at the meeting of the school committee. I consider this proposal completely unsystemic, it goes against the principles of the prepared programme of festival financing, which was approved by the Ministry of Culture and was sent to a commentary procedure. Approval of this programme is foreseen at the beginning of next year. He did not discuss the specific list of seven festivals with the proposed amounts of the subcommittee on culture, but he recommended that the Minister ensure the support of priority festivals. It's fully in his jurisdiction. The proposal was not prepared by the Ministry of Culture. The section of living art only learned about the proposal when it was submitted at the meeting of the Education Committee during the discussion of the Ministry's budget. It is a proposal originally made by two Members and one interest organisation. The festival selection criteria are very special. The costs of the festival 10 million. and membership of the Association of Music Festivals. In doing so, we have other professional organizations. There are other festivals that cost more than 10 miles. They're much more considered artistic, but they're not on the list. For example, the Autumn Strings, which were listed in a similar list last year, came out of the Association of Music Festivals in the spring of this year and are no longer in the design. It reminds me of the situation - if you're not friends with me, you don't get priority support. Not accepting the proposal means threatening the existence of Prague Spring, Smetana's Litomyšl, Dvořák's Prague. The Ministry of Culture expects and supports the festival. On the contrary. If the selected festivals do not deliver the aid bill in time and in order for 2015 by the end of January, their designated support will fail and will not be able to be used for other festivals or areas of live art. It's already underfunded. [[Your time, Madame. I'm sorry.]] Yes, so I don't agree with the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u71	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Kolovratník and then Mr Adámek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u72	Thank you, good morning. I am not so well prepared and she has a factual point to be on the course of the debate and not on the content of the matter. Maybe I won't be charged either, but I have to respond to my previous speaker. On the contrary, I would like to support this proposal and ask you, colleagues, to take a stand on its side in the final vote which it will decide, because this proposal, on the contrary, increases transparency. And he didn't tell the plaintiff František Adámek, but the festivals, they're really not an interest group. Those who want this budget adjustment, and I repeat it without any increase, have to meet the fucking hard conditions as regards permanent and long-term attendance with regard to the overall budget of the festival and the overall economy. So it's not for a particular interest group, it's for those who meet the strictest conditions. That's what you need to know. Of course, when no one's gonna fill them, they're not gonna be in that club, in quotes. And the last sentence in the factual note. It was said in the proposal, it is because of the absence of a permanent program within the Ministry of Culture, where we would be ours, and it is our political will, whether we decide them for it or not, they are happy to ensure certain, I will say, stable conditions for a group of really the best, which represent the Czech Republic. Perhaps the last mention, I will refer to a serious analysis from KPMG, which says that one crown in quotation marks invested in this type of activities from public sources will return almost twice. Those are proven numbers. So support for me, and I beg you for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u73	Thank you, too. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Adámek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u74	Hello again. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I respect my colleague Berdychová very much, I respect everyone who is interested in this issue, because in a way she moves her and other opinions forward and brings her to the awareness not only of this House, but of our fellow citizens at all. However, only two factual points on what has been said here. I didn't say we only did it with the Ministry of Culture. I made it clear that we received some numbers from the Ministry of Culture and that we discussed it with the Association of Music Festivals. And the second point is to make it perfectly clear. It is not an interest club, it is that I am several times, and in my speech, after all, we are talking about classical music festivals in the amendment. I am not an expert, but please, if the festival, which Mrs Berdychová mentioned, is played by the world music, takes place within a month or two, say. Second, there's alternative music and other genres, nothing against it, but it's just a different category. And we're talking about classical music festivals. Just to clarify, we're not talking about any special club. [[11.10 hours]] It is understandable, in conclusion, that the economic evidence that we obviously had to obtain in order to be responsible for this was obtained, and I also spoke about it in my opening speech, as well as from the Association of Music Festivals. We came from the possibilities of the evidence we obtained. That's all for the sake of explanation, just to be clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u75	Thank you, too. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek and then Minister Daniel Herman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u76	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support this amendment for us without saying that it is a systemic measure. It's a substitute measure, because it just doesn't have a program here, including proper evaluation. And the only reason, the main reason I think the proposal deserves support is time. There is no worse nightmare for the manager or dramaturg of the Prague Spring when he does not yet know what state support he can count on in February and therefore does not know whether he can afford the respective conductor, soloist or body. We all know that festivals, and not only classical music, are involved in all such events, but classical music festivals are beginning to be intensively prepared at the latest at the time of the final concert of the previous year. And if I can't be sure of the amount of state contribution, which is some kind of base segment of the budget that I should be sure of with regard to state support, then I'm very sick of working and logically going to the level of the festival. It knows the time. At the moment there will be a clear agenda, a clear evaluation, there will be no need to address this with amendments. However, two comments that I would like to add. Firstly, I would very much like it if, if we approved the amendment, we did not feel that this would be resolved for 2016. It's not. I would very much like to think of it as some sort of basal minimum with which the management of these festivals will be able to count on, and that after the programme has been approved, there will be a fine-tuning process. Firstly, I believe that this amount could be higher due to the current possibilities of state spending and given how much public budgets our neighbours spend, for example, at a festival in Salzburg or Bayreuth or other festivals, because it really is something that the Czech Republic can present, and it certainly does not lose. Secondly, I would like to be sure that a group of experts and not just managers, and not only on the basis of economic criteria, have assessed the level of support. I confess that I am unable to understand the only reason whether in terms of dramaturgy, or the participation of soloists and bodies of the world class, why perhaps Český Krumlov should have significantly more than Dvořák's Prague. I don't care, but I'm a layman. So I strongly hope that after the program is finished, or after the program is presented, that the amount will be higher and that the individual proportions will be fine-tuned. But now, at the moment, when the program is not, if we send a clear message to these major festivals: this is the minimum you can count on, we will certainly do well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u77	Thank you, too. I'm recording two factual points. The first is Mr Kolovratník and Mrs Němcová after him. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u78	Now it's really going to be a point of fact. I've been warned by my colleagues to draw attention to my potential conflict of interest, so I'll be happy to say it in the log that I'm a member of the board of directors of one of those festivals, Smetana's Litomyšle. I'm not scared, and I'm happy to say it. If I have a problem with the vote, I'll stick with it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u79	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Němcová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u80	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to extend the debate on a factual point. I want to sign what my colleague Kalousek said. I would welcome an increase in money for these special programs, but I took the floor because I would like to point out that we are talking about one segment of public money support, i.e. definitely respectable festivals and behind them organizers and I support them. But I also want to talk about those that aren't spoken of and almost unknown, that's those who work and organize great musical opportunities and festivals without public support. For example, Martin's festivities are taking place. I'm saying this here, ladies and gentlemen, for you, so that you may be able to participate. The Academy of Performing Arts right here in Malostranske náměstí. The fifth year is underway and based on the fact that they can attract top performers and have perfect dramaturgy and can do without public funds. I think in this debate, when we're talking about what the state is supposed to support, it's also to say that there's a group of people very capable, skilled, artistically gifted who don't need public funds. This does not mean to destruct the debate on the necessary support for serious and interesting and necessary cultural festivals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u81	Thank you, Madame. Now with priority rights Mr. Minister of Culture Daniel Herman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would first of all like to thank all those who are interested in this important segment of culture, in this case live art. It's an expression that we don't consider culture to be something marginal, something that doesn't concern us. There have been a number of arguments here, which I think are based essentially on a realistic estimate of the situation. We are trying to systemically solve the individual rays of the overall spectrum that make up culture. Probably the best we've done so far in the field of cinema. And I fully agree with what President Kalousek said here that all segments need to be solved systemically, because many people then invest their energy in raising money instead of investing in creating programs with a certain perspective. That's the direction we're following, the system solution. At the moment, as Mrs Berdychová said, there is material in the commentary procedure. All things are not going as quickly as we would like, but I think the path is set well, and in those transitional periods, of course, I welcome the impulses that come from the Chamber of Deputies, because as a member of the Government, I am responsible to the Chamber of Deputies. So I think even those two angles of view don't go against each other, they complement each other. I really thank you for this interest, which I see as clear support for culture, the promotion of living art, and we will certainly try to ensure that there is a system solution in the world as quickly as possible and that we do not have to bridge those periods so far with proposals that help us to restore the very absence of such a standard. Thank you again for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u83	Thank you, too, Minister. I'll read the note. Today, for reasons of work from 17.30, Mr. Josef Hvozdecký apologizes. We will continue the debate. The next envoy is Mrs Zelienková, and Mr Černoch will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I come before you with another issue and that is tourism. I have been engaged in tourism for 20 years in the long term and have been supporting tourism all along. Unfortunately, I have learned that tourism is currently not supported at such a level as it has been supported in recent years, and in my view it has already been greatly underestimated in recent years. [[11.20 hours]] Tourism brings about 3% of GDP, which is a comparable amount of money, such as agriculture, but the entire tourism is managed by a department that employs about 20 people at the Ministry of Regional Development. Physically, there are, say, 18 people involved, because people also have to choose vacations, someone is sick. Furthermore, tourism is supported by the CzechTourism agency, which is currently on a third budget than it has been today, because the funds from the Integrated Operational Programme have flowed into tourism. This appropriation can no longer be used by CzechTourism because the European Union has stopped supporting tourism. I have tried to organise a seminar in the Chamber of Deputies to clarify how long-term tourism will be financed by 2020. Unfortunately, the organizing committee did not come to my attention in this area, it was not very helpful, so I did not organise this seminar in the belief that even though tourism would still be financially supported in a way. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and I would therefore like to come here with an amendment that would increase CzechTourism's resources by at least 50 miles. CZK, although this amount is very small. At present CzechTourism is really on the amount that will cover its operating costs, and the promotion of tourism in this way will be almost none. That is why I too wonder how we want to encourage tourism in the future at least this year. From what do we want to finance marketing support if we now finance the operating costs of CzechTourism? So at this point, I wouldn't want to talk long, I just read this amendment of mine, and we can continue to talk about it on the Committee on Budgets. So my amendment is to the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016, the House's Press 617. I propose that the Ministry of Regional Development increase the expenditure of the chapter by 50 million. CZK with the designation for the state contribution organization of the CzechTourism Agency for expenditure on support of domestic and foreign travel spirit to the VPS chapter, from the item - I have two alternatives: either they are subsidies for export support and the addition of EGAP insurance funds, a. s., where the amount is reduced by 50 million. Crowns. There are currently 2.2 billion in this chapter. and in a way incoming tourism can also be counted as an export from an economic point of view. Then I have the second alternative, the contributions to the budget of the European Union, the contributions of the European Communities' own resources to the budget of the European Union, where the amount would be reduced again by 50 million. It's the second alternative. There has been an increase of 1.5 billion in this next year's budget, and such an increase in the economy is not expected. In my opinion, GDP will certainly not be higher than 4.5 percent, which is why the increase is unnecessarily high there from my point of view. The budget chapter 398 of the General Treasury will therefore be adjusted so that the overall budget deficit of the State Budget proposal for 2016 does not exceed 70 billion. Crowns. Since the costs of promoting tourism provided by the state contribution organisation, CzechTourism, established by the Ministry of Regional Development and linked to the MMR budget chapter, have been reduced to a third in recent years, it is appropriate to support this area by increasing revenue by at least 50 million. Crowns. It is indeed, ladies and gentlemen, a very low amount, however, according to the metrics available to CzechTourism, every crown that is spent on meaningful actions brings up to three times to the state budget. Therefore, I would really appeal not to underestimate tourism, because, as I have already mentioned, it brings about 3% to the state budget, whereas in Austria, for example, the share of tourism in the state budget is as high as 13 percent. I therefore believe that the potential of the Czech Republic is comparable, if not higher, with Austria and we should not underestimate tourism in the long term. On the contrary, we should invest much more in tourism promotion and set some rules that will work in the future and generate profits for the Czech Republic in the long term. But we'd be going into detail here about the tourism law, etc. I'll save that for the Sub-Committee on Tourism. I wouldn't want to hold you up on this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u85	Thank you, too, Madame. Minister Šlechtová is now reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will just comment on a few points that have fallen. I would just like to mention that the agency, virtually. Czech Tourism headquarters - CzechTourism is not on a third of its budget. However, this agency has been used to drawing on the European Union for seven, ten years, which means an integrated operational programme. I would just like to say that the budget, which is on CzechTourism, will completely cover all the costs of CzechTourism, but any extra contribution to the promotion of the Czech Republic, which is the task of this agency, is of course welcome. I will not comment on the next points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u87	Thank you. We will therefore continue the debate. Mr. Marek Černoch is registered and Mr. Josef Uhlík will be prepared after that. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u88	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to sign up for the amendments under 3281, 3282, to the press 617, which is the allocation of funds for personnel and technical border control. The European Union will also face an immigration crisis in the coming years. According to European Commission estimates, three million more people are expected to come to Europe by 2017 alone, three times as many as this year. Since the European Union has shown that it is unable to protect the external borders of the Schengen area, each state must take care of the protection of its borders itself. The other states do so, and it is necessary for the Czech Republic to do so. Separated funds are to be used to purchase technologies such as optical cables, cameras, drones, technical centres, etc. to protect the southern border of the Czech Republic. This is not about the construction of fences like in Hungary. The border is to be protected in the same way as the Slovenian-Ukrainian border is protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Josef Uhlík will now appear and prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, allow me to apply to the House document which amends the Government's bill on the state budget. This is House document 3293, which I am signing up for my colleague Mihola, who is absent and has read this amendment. The amendment concerns a change in the budget, a comparison, an increase in salaries in education. [[11.30 hours]] The government's regulation, as we know, number 831 of 19 October 2015, has increased the remuneration expenditure for schools established by the region, municipalities or associations of municipalities since 1 November 2015. This increase does not concern employees of private and church schools. With this amendment, we want to change this because we think that all employees of private and ecclesiastical education are doing the same work as their colleagues in public education. Equal access to the financing of schools and school facilities of all founders is a prerequisite for the comparable quality of education provided. So now specifically on numbers and our designs. It is CZK 156 million 914 thousand 928. We want to increase this amount by Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the specific indicator B.III.2 of regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations. We want to reduce by this amount - we are giving a variant solution - in the first variant in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration a specific indicator of the contribution of the European Communities' own resources to the budget of the European Union; or variant 2, a humiliation of this amount to Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration, a specific indicator of the subsidy to support exports to the fulfilment of EGAP insurance funds, a.s. Thank you. Or I thank those who pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u91	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Věra Kovářová is now registered and Mr Grospič will speak after her. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u92	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, you may not have missed that there is an exhibition of photographs of endangered cultural monuments near our buffet. But if you missed it, I recommend this exhibition of your attention, ideally before the vote on the state budget before the third reading. From the exhibition of photographs, which the vast majority of us know very well, it follows that the state of a large part of cultural monuments is unsatisfactory, and even numbers confirm this. Internal debt on cultural monuments according to the Ministry of Culture study amounts to CZK 318 billion and that is a lot. A great deal should therefore be reserved in the state budget for the repair of cultural monuments in the relevant subsidy programmes. All the more so, only a fraction of the sights will be supported in the new programming period. National cultural monuments, UNESCO cultural monuments, and these are approximately 300. The cultural monuments to which European money will not reach are 40,000. Clearly, therefore, there is a strong strengthening of demanding grant schemes. We simply have to deal with the blackout of European money. And as a solution, there is no symbolic patch. This view was also shared by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which in its resolution in April called on the Minister of Culture to allocate one billion crowns in cooperation with the Minister of Finance in the draft state budget to grant conservation programmes. Of course, the same view was shared by the relevant committee for science, education, culture and so on. Unfortunately, the amendment tabled by the Education Committee has stumbled upon the Committee on Budgets. It was strange because no one voted against him. Coalition colleagues who abstained even expressed their support for this plan. However, as I said, unfortunately, they did not express this support, unlike the area of sport for which an additional 250 million were found easily in the Committee on Budgets. I cannot accept such a result, which is why I have decided to make the same proposal as in the Committee on Budgets at second reading, so that you, colleagues, can also examine it in plenary. I would like to thank you in advance for any support that would allow the Ministry of Culture to issue one billion crowns in the respective grant programmes next year to repair endangered cultural monuments - I remind you that many of them have the opportunity to see at the entrance to the State Acts. And that's a pretty round number. I would now like to comment on my second amendment, which addresses the following problem. According to available information at the Ministry of the Interior, we lack dozens of workers who would deal with the issue of eGovernment. However, the government did not think about them when drawing up the draft state budget for next year. In my amendment, I therefore proposed to strengthen the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior by CZK 20 million, which I believe will contribute to the Czech Republic becoming a wild cat if not a tiger. According to recent European statistics, we are in an unflattering 25th place in the 28th, and we should do something about that. In the Committee on Budgets, this proposal was not supported because the Ministers of the Interior and Finance already know about the problem and are looking for solutions. At my repeated questions, however, it was not explained in which direction the solution should be taken. And since no new information has been made available to me since the budget committee's meeting on the ministerial solution, I am making this proposal again at second reading. Finally, I would like to comment and on the amendment that we have prepared together with my colleague, Ženíšek and Bezecný. On its basis, CZK 2 billion of CZK 280 million should be added to the Ministry of Defence chapter. This figure has previously been supported by the Defence Committee and included in the amendment by Mr Gabal. However, the Committee on Budgets found the defence committee's proposal unvoteable, and as I found yesterday when I read the amendments, the proposal by my colleague Gabal seems unvoted, which is why we tabled this proposal this morning. My colleague Gabal's proposal is attacking the government's budget reserve. As I believe, the proposed amendment no longer shows such major shortcomings by us. The 2 billion CZK 280 million we draw from the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture from the indicator Support of the agrifood complex, for a simple reason. Unlike the government's budget reserve, there's a lot of money in there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u93	Thank you, too, Madame. In fact, Mr Mackovík is reporting. [[Right Grospic]] A moment of patience. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u94	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, thank you, dear colleagues, for your patience. Dear Government, Minister, allow me to make a short amendment, which leads me to both factual reasons and regional reasons, because we have been working for years in Nymburk and Mladá Boleslav to speed up the railway link between Prague and Liberec on the link and, of course, with Mladá Boleslav. [[11.40 hours]] I know that the current railway line has undergone a major reconstruction. I also know - and I have intersected the Minister of Transport on the issue of reconstruction which was to take place this year, lines from Mladá Boleslav to Nymburk. I was promised that it would be implemented in two stages, this year and next year, including security equipment. However, this has not yet been fully implemented. In this sense, I would like to table an amendment to the Government's draft state budget, which could facilitate this whole plan or at least if it were an event. The Ministry of Transport, the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and, of course, the Railway Infrastructure Administration really did not receive support from you, fellow Members, and those preparatory stages of the preparation and assessment of individual studies, which I believe are carried out in four variants and several subvariants, have been accelerated so far. I therefore propose to add to Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport the grant title for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure of 200 million. CZK for preparation and implementation of project preparation and project called. Vlkavské spojky in the section from the town of Milovice to the village of Všejany, possibly to the village of Čakovice, which could be taken as the first stage of the new connection of the capital city of Prague to the statutory town of Mladá Boleslav and the statutory city of Liberec. I propose to cover this increase from the reserve of the State Budget chapter of the General Treasury. This amendment was distributed to you in electronic form under number 3297 and, at the same time, I apologize for the press error which is in it, where it is written for the State Transport Fund, but it should, of course, be there for the State Transport Infrastructure Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u95	Thank you, too. Now with priority rights, Minister Daniel Herman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, in this case I would like to thank Mrs Kovářová through Mr President for organising the exhibition in the acts Exhibition of endangered monuments, which very plastically shows the state of some 750 buildings in the territory of Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia. This is very important and shows how even 26 years is not enough to put together a huge heritage that has been systematically destroyed for 40 years, when cultural monuments have been transformed into tractor stations or telethons, unless they have been blown up at all. On the other hand, if we go through any city, municipalities, we see that the state of cultural monuments is improving significantly. It is also due to the significant support of the state, it is also due to the significant support of European funds. Indeed, those oil programs, which will also manage the reconstruction of cultural monuments in the future, will be narrowed down, as has been said here, only to certain categories of national cultural monuments, UNESCO monuments and monuments of so-called. an indicative list. However, these are also non-negligible numbers. However, it must also be added that we have a number of subsidy programmes from the Ministry of Culture, which we are also trying to intervene on other objects that are not able to be co-financed from European funds. Of course, this amendment contains needs that would certainly benefit and help the restoration of our conservation fund. On the other hand, as a member of the government, I perceive the constraints of real possibilities. And I have to say that the fact that for next year, we have only one billion allocated to the national cultural treasure, about three quarters of a billion for other conservation programs, so I think the level is very interesting. Negotiations with the Ministry of Finance always develop very positively. In this respect, I appreciate the helpfulness that we face on this issue. This means, I understand this proposal, I understand it, but as a member of the government, I also understand what is possible and what is not possible. This means that, with this level of rationality, let us approach those proposals that are mentioned here, although the merit and interest that they say is certainly good. But again, we can't move in any categories of unrealistic possibilities. Thank you for your support, thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u97	Thank you. With priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to point out once again, because there has again been an amendment against the government's budgetary reserve, which we have already said, but it cannot even be said that the amendment will be built against the General Treasury, because there are a number of items. So you can't just write chapter VPS. The item should be entered directly there. I say to those who still want to table an amendment to take this into account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u99	Thank you. Now, therefore, duly signed up for the debate, Mr Ludvík Hovorka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u100	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I would like to support the idea put forward here by Mrs Kovářová, because I believe, despite all that has been said here, that the money that goes to restore cultural monuments is insufficient. And it is because even the programmes we have, the programming funding is so low that it allows the programs to give around half a million, maybe a little more money, but that means that basically all cultural monuments are being repaired for a very long time and that repairs are being expensive. I have repeatedly made proposals last year to repair some cultural monuments. Sometimes it didn't even go through the budget committee. And even though those applicants who tabled these amendments submitted this in the context of programming funding through the Ministry of Culture, they were repeatedly not satisfied. That is why I would also like to present the amendment that I have put into the system under the number 3296, on the draft state budget, to the House of Press 617, which I am referring to. Let me briefly picture this amendment concerning Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture. And that's what I'm suggesting: Reduce expenditure under Chapter No 396 State debt, specific indicator of the operation of the state debt by 10 million. CZK or alternatively reduction of expenditure of Chapter 398 General Treasury Administration, reduction of specific export support indicator - addition of insurance funds EGAP, a. s., by 10 million. CZK and increase in budget of Chapter 334 Ministry of Culture in indicator support for development and restoration of material technical base of regional cultural facilities, program 134D410 Support for development and reconstruction of material technical foundations of churches and religious organizations by plus 10 million. Crowns. Within this amount, include new actions. First, repair of the parish church of svatý František Xaverský in Uherské Hradiště plus 6 miles. Crowns. Reason: The applicant, the Roman Catholic parish of Uherské Hradiště, submitted a proper application for an EEA grant, yet the application was not accepted. The applicant also repeatedly submits applications to the programme funding for the restoration of urban landmark zones, but amounts of up to half a million crowns are released from this programme, which allow partial repair of one statue on the façade. The resources released from the program are so low that they do not allow extensive repair of the facade, sculptures and wooden elements. As a result, the correction is expensive by more costs on the need to build scaffolding for each small partial repair. [[11.50 hours]] Second, repair of the parish church of svatý Vojtěch in Slavicín 1.5 miles. Crowns. Reason: The applicant, Roman Catholic parish of Slavicín, needs to repair the tower and facade of the church - cultural monuments. The roof covering has been replaced before and the foundations have been drained. However, no funds are available to complete the repairs. This proposal was already submitted to the Budget Committee last year but was not supported. Third, repair of the emergency state of the roof of St. Michael Archangel, Prague-Podolí, 2.5 miles. Crowns. Reason: Applicant, Roman Catholic parish at the church of St. Michael the Archangel, trying to save the cultural memory for the long term. This year, she requested part of the funds through the Ministry of Culture emergency programme, but the application was not supported. The means are essential to repair roof coverings of the roof and copper elements, because the roof structure is in an emergency condition. This is my amendment and the justification for what I propose to include and balance over the relevant chapters that I have mentioned here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u101	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Vice-President Filip is now claiming priority rights, followed by President Fiala. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u102	Thank you, Mr President. I have a very minor change and this is strengthening chapter 306 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by 300 thousand. CZK at the expense of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, from paycheck to so-called church restitution. The reason why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and why from the Ministry of Culture is simple given that it is a conquest and Czech participation at the Holocaust Museum in South Africa in Johannesburg, where Czech glassmakers participated, and created a monument about Terezín Memorial. I believe that this share of the Czech state in the Holocaust Museum in South Africa is a good step both in our foreign policy and at least in the reminder of the acts of fascism that have been created against the Czech state here. The funds would serve both Czech glassmakers, but especially to pay for copyright for children's drawings from Terezín Memorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u103	Thank you, too, Mr Vice-President. Now with priority rights, President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment with my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party, which is inserted in writing into the system under 'No'. 3294, and I hereby apply to him. The essence of the proposal is actually simple. This is an increase in funding for universities by 1 billion. Crowns. I will now briefly justify the proposal. We propose, as I said before, to add 1 billion to Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. CZK and by this billion we want to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely the item of benefits in material distress. Here it must be said that the benefits in material distress have increased by about 60 percent since 2012, i.e. by more than 5 billion. Crowns. Given the economic situation today, the state of unemployment that is taking place in our economy, we cannot assume, and I hope that the government does not expect that the standard of living of the population to deteriorate significantly. So if the benefits paid are controlled consistently, there is no doubt that much more can be saved than we propose, that is, a reduction of 1 billion. Crowns. What is more important, however, is why we want to increase the college budget. And maybe this is where I should be fixed. It's not really about the increase, it's about the fact that the college budget doesn't fall significantly year-on-year. I'll just give you a few numbers that are very clear. In 2013, universities without European funds received 21.8 billion from the state budget. Crowns. But next year, the government wants to give them less than 20.2 billion. CZK, this year the government gave 21.5 billion to universities. Crowns. There is a decline not only against 2013, but there is also a significant decline against this year, which is actually 1.3 billion. Crowns. If we raise the college budget to gross domestic product, we will find that next year, according to the government's proposal, we will achieve 0.43% of GDP, which is really hard to defend. When I mentioned this fact in my interpellation to Prime Minister Sobotka, he told me that he didn't care about his share of GDP because it doesn't say anything. I must say that, of course, in all international evaluations, the proportion of education expenditure is related to GDP, but so if the Prime Minister is not interested, I have looked at what he is interested in, and according to him is an interesting contribution to the total expenditure of the state budget. So if we convert it into a share of the total expenditure of the state budget, then we find that the expenditure of the universities accounted for 1.86 percent of the total expenditure of the state budget in 2013, and in 2016 they will only account for 1.61 percent of the state budget. So the share is decreasing, the money is actually decreasing, the share is decreasing in relation to GDP, the share is decreasing in relation to the total expenditure of the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, if the government says education and research is one of its priorities, the Prime Minister even said literally that education must be a priority, otherwise the state is gambling, it is really hard to understand why this priority, and universities guarantee that our research potential will improve, that our competitiveness will grow, that we will have a skilled workforce, simply guarantee our competitiveness and our future, so it is completely incomprehensible why not only is this alleged government priority not only strengthened in the budget, but on the contrary, the resources are so dramatically reduced. With this proposal, we are giving the government and the government Members a chance to remedy this situation, and by adding one billion crowns to the college budget, we are actually only going to achieve that the reduction in the money that goes to universities year-on-year will not be as high as the current government expects in the proposed draft budget at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Kateřina Valachová reports with priority rights. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u106	Mr President, honourable Members, I am only allowed to respond for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to those Members who supported an increase in the budget of universities, the part of the budget of the Ministry of Education, which concerns universities. Of course, I would be very happy to try, particularly in the medium term, to change the situation in the financing of universities, but the reality is that this year we all had to deal with the reality of the convergence programme. However, I consider it important to say here in the House of Deputies that although there is indeed a fall of 800 miles between the proposals for the budget 2015 and 2016. CZK and from the point of view of actual drawdown is a drop of 1.2 billion. CZK, so we have done so in terms of promoting the legitimate claims of universities and ensuring education in sufficient quality that the government has adopted, together with the budget, a accompanying resolution, where the entire half-billion crowns will still be transferred for the benefit of universities this year. At the same time, as Minister of Education, I have committed myself to supporting university operations outside the budget of 300 million. Crowns. And, of course, I'm glad that we found support in the budget and school committee for a budget increase of 200 million. Crowns. So the result is 1 billion, and I do not consider it optimal, but this amount will allow universities to cope - and I dare say this strong word - to survive 2016, which is very complex in terms of meeting two operational programmes. I would be very happy to support all fellow Members in the event of communication of the medium-term perspective, because there is a dog buried there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask if anyone is joining the debate. That's right. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u108	Good noon. Now we just had to switch meetings. Mr President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u109	Thank you for the floor. My performance will be a little longer than some of my colleagues' performances. I will justify two amendments. One that we respond to the resolution of the Defence Committee, because we have already noticed in the previous days that, as the Defence Committee originally approved it, it is unvoting. However, we support the proposal. It is signed by me and colleague Černochová and colleague Vilímec. But the truth is that it is an amendment to the Defence Committee. We were just trying to find expenses that we might be able to allocate to defend ourselves. Then I'll introduce you to a specific text. So please take it, not that we're competing with the defense committee and we're overreacting, which one of us will be the first to load it. If it hadn't been written by the General Treasury, but the items were specified, we wouldn't have filed the proposal. The second proposal I'm making on behalf of our MP's club is rather thin because it's two sides like this, it's in the system number 399. [[shows]] I'm just going to verbally check with the chairman of the budget committee because we originally had a mistake there, so if I don't sign up for the original version, we're not going to vote on it anymore and we're not going to negotiate. Isn't that right? [[The rapporteur, Votava, nods.]] So we have a revised version. The previous one will fall automatically. When we discussed at first reading, we criticized the government for the excessive deficit, and we said that we would try to show the government where it could find a reserve and which expenditure could reduce. However, since the Chamber of Deputies has already approved the basic parameters of the budget in accordance with the law, that is to say, total revenue, total expenditure and total balance, we could not logically propose to transfer these savings in favour of the deficit reduction. And because we want to show goodwill, our proposal is directed at all these individual items, which we will then want to vote on separately, of course, because we did not want to produce 30 amendments, so we put it in one where there are about 30 items. And we propose to allocate these expenses to the government's budget reserve. This means, unlike many colleagues who have performed today and who even wanted to lower it under the legal limit, so increase it. And that volume is approximately CZK 24 billion. It is, I would say, an expression of goodwill, because if you would approve and say and acknowledge that our proposed savings are in order, we are actually putting this money at the disposal of the government, because it is the government's budget reserve and the government is managing it. And it really is quite a significant part: 24 billion crowns. But this, in our opinion, is the only method in process when the total parameters of the budget are approved. We've had the debate. However, before I go to specific matters, to specific proposals, allow me to make some general remarks on the budget itself, although I will repeat some of the Minister's speeches at first or second reading, but I do not think it is any of the point to recall the basic macroeconomic framework, the basic and most important cross-cutting parameters and budgetary indicators. The budget is based on a forecast of economic growth by about 2.5 percent, and we as an opposition party fully accept that. We think it is based on some average of renowned agencies, the Czech National Bank, the Ministry of Finance. Individual estimates differ in tenths of percent, so we think that 2.5 percent is appropriate and that the budget itself, especially income, is set at the same limit, but if the 2.5 percent of GDP growth is met, it should be fulfilled in particular with regard to tax revenues. We are quite skeptical of how much we will be able to draw from the new programming period. Now, I'm not talking about direct payments, of course, the claims, but the ones that the ministry has planned. It's not exactly in our hands. The experience from 2009 when the first year of the period 2007 to 2013 was really the year 2016 will be the first year when it can draw on the period 2014 to 2020 will lead us to some caution. This is not entirely in our hands, but we will admit Brussels administration and bureaucracy, it is a relatively risky item. I would like to ask one specific question and I am glad that the Minister of the Environment is here, and unfortunately, the Minister of Transport is not here because there is a big problem before us as before the Czech Republic. I have information that the associated delegations of these two ministries are trying to address him in Brussels. But I also have information that it's not going very well. So if we could get some specific information after that. This is an EIA problem. For a long time, we discussed him in detail last year. We drew attention to the risks posed by the adoption of the new law. The government, under pressure from Brussels, claimed that this was a condition for us to be able to draw at all. We argued that it might also happen that if we passed the wrong law, we could draw, but we wouldn't exhaust anything. And according to the information available to the opposition party, for many important transport structures in many regions, whether in my Moravian-Silesian region, but also at D3 in the South Bohemia Region, D11 threatens that the valid EIA permit, which according to the original law of the 1990s, Minister Brabec certainly knows the figure in more detail, that the European Commission does not want to recognise this and claims that we must undertake the process again for these old but legally acquired assessments of the environmental impact of the construction. And that's a disaster. If we do not push for a change in the position of the European Commission, we will not, as usual, remain in the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure 10, 8, 15 billion, as it happens every year that remains there, but there will be much more, because these are the constructions that are actually prepared. There may be one, two, three building permits missing on that route, that's done for individual building buildings, rarely a building permit for the whole building. But if we have to re-start the EIA process there, it won't be in this parliamentary term. We don't stand a chance. We drew attention to this and it is a terrible pity that the government did not negotiate in the context of the pressure of Brussels that, well, if we have to adopt a new EIA law, none of what is already valid will be questioned. I have information that sometime around 10th November the delegation of the two ministries, perhaps even the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure in Brussels, was, and I would quite welcome some more detailed information and rather a view. We're not happy about this. I am talking about this repeatedly, that investment in transport infrastructure is essentially not political. The buildings are basically set. There is no conflict between one political party against another, which constructions are to be done. It's about getting ready pretty quickly. We will also be discussing a joint draft of coalition and opposition Members on land purchases in a few moments. And unfortunately, and that's why we're proposing to cut subsidies for SFDI, because the money would stay there. But we're not proposing them in such a large amount if the black scenario were to be fulfilled and we would really have to I/11, D3, D11 and I could continue to go through the process again because optimists say two years and pessimists say three years. Well, we're somewhere in the 2018 or 2019 financial year, and unfortunately, if we criticize that there's not enough investment money, we wouldn't be able to invest it yet. And I would say that this is a common interest of the Czech Republic. When someone sometimes asks what the national interests that the ODS likes to talk about are, it is a specific national interest to give us new ones, these are the new European regulations, not ordering us to repeat the processes that we have already successfully managed. Every mayor, every person who's been in the county council or who's been around the Ministry of Transport knows how difficult it is to get to the building permit and go through the EIA process. [[12.10 hours]] This is just to explain that there are two items, because unfortunately, even the proposed relatively realistic amount for SFDI will not be able to exhaust, and now it's just whether the government or ministries will be able to negotiate so that we don't have to repeat it, and then the fall will be somewhere around 5 billion. against the proposed budget. If this could not be negotiated, the drop could be much higher. Believe us, this is not a matter for the opposition to rejoice. We want to argue with you about the amount of taxes, simplifying the system, maybe electronic records of sales and things like that, but we don't want to argue about things that we basically feel the same way about. We may sometimes differ in the way to buy out more quickly and what are the right prices for purchases, we may differ in the question where we are more conservative and do not want to open EIA processes, territorial proceedings, building permits for anyone who passes by, which mainly solves construction at the other end of the Republic, establish a small civic association and block the construction for ideological reasons. Not because he lives there and is threatened by it, and he has a legitimate feeling that the locals are in danger. We all know this across the political spectrum, and unfortunately, it's a shame. That's just what I had to say, because it's quite an up-to-date thing, and unfortunately it turns out that our concerns, and remember, not even in the government ranks, if I remember correctly, didn't have any enthusiasm when you raised your hand for the EIA law. Maybe you weren't all of them, or certainly you weren't all of them, because those with practical experience were afraid of that. And I could follow up on yesterday's performance by Pavel Blažek, as he spoke about sunshine laws, how good intentions, when they overwhelm, complicate the practical exercise of politics and the practical exercise of power. Let's go back to the basic parameters of the budget. As a result of economic growth, record revenues are actually being budgeted - no offense, we actually said that this is essentially realistic and acceptable - but unfortunately also record spending. And that's the thing that seems wrong to us. A thing that is not acceptable. Because let's ask ourselves a question, and please don't think of it as a rhetorical question - when will we be able to pay off debts? At a time of economic growth or economic stagnation or recession? And that the economic cycle is working, perhaps we can agree on that. The fact that we all want to be still in the growth period is also true, but it just isn't real, and if, at the moment that the economy will grow by almost 5% this year and we will have a deficit, I don't know, 70-75 billion next year by 2.5 percent, but to this year's increase, to know what we're counting on that base again 70 billion, let's ask ourselves whether, as many of us, and across the political spectrum, say, we want and we're heading towards a balanced state budget, only that year is still far from when we're going to zero or surplus. And let us note our richest neighbor, Germany's largest European economy, and they are succeeding. And I hear very often in the debates about individual departmental chapters - there are higher spending in Germany, and now I'm talking about percentage of GDP, because it's not worth counting absolute amounts, but there's higher spending, yet they're handling it, and we're not doing it in the long run. That's why I'm telling us, and that's why I'm saying in the long run that this should not be seen as a criticism of this government alone. We're not doing it, and we're not doing it in the long run. President Fiala spoke about reducing expenditure on higher education. We didn't hear a proper reason. Expenditure on science and research is not increasing as it should, and investment in general is relatively low. On the other hand, what is growing is the number of civil servants by almost 14,000. I remember the page in my head, so look it up, in print 613 pages 122 - 13 400 employees - 10 billion. increase. Ten billion! If you find another page and there are common expenses of ministries, and only really in what you know from business in five accounts, that means material, energy, services - 55 billion, an increase of 3 billion.! And many of us who have drawn up different budgets know that the very popular method of these expenditures for officials who prepare the documents is so-called. indexing - I'm gonna take last year's result, and now I'm gonna raise it by 2, 3, preferably by 6, so I can, if the boss wants to cross something out, the minister, I'm gonna move from 6 to 3, and I'm already so-called. he's put out savings. Today it's 55 billion, but we originally wanted 70, so we actually saved 15. They don't say anymore, but this year it was 50, and last year it was 45. That's not used in the argument anymore. So even there will be our amendments, because there is really a way to save money. It's not such a simple number and it's not such a big amount, but if we want to make some savings, for example, about the 30 billion we're talking about, we have to start from the small amounts, from the expenditure on material, services, energy in each chapter. Those chapters are somewhere between 40 and 50. Of course, the biggest one is the MPSV, but there's the most mandatorial expenses. Some chapters are relatively small and many colleagues and colleagues from the House say across the political spectrum: this is such a small chapter, there is nothing to be found. But that's not true. You can find savings everywhere in operating expenses, because when other times, as he once asked a question, should we go to zero? And we didn't even tell the government that next year should be a balanced state budget. We were just saying that at a time when income grew by 67 billion, it was enough to keep last year's spending, and we'd have a deficit of 43 billion. lower. If you look again at the structure of expenditure by item, you'll find that expenditures are about 32 billion higher. Sorry to round up the numbers a little bit, but there's a negative 11 billion at the same time. to pay interest on state debt, which is good, I'm not questioning it, but really spending is growing by some 43 billion. By 11 billion. We pay less interest, so the number 32 goes out. But if we kept the same expenses and at the same time saved for interest due to the fact that the Czech Republic is successful in selling its bonds well, we could have been without cutting the government budget deficit against 2015, somewhere around 30 billion. And we suggested, but most rejected it, most of the House, and I think it was a government majority that said: 40 billion. next year's deficit is too strong a measure, the 70 is just right. And the Minister of Finance is forecasting this year's deficit of around 70 billion. I think the numbers in the first 10 months that we all have at our disposal are suggesting that it won't be minus 100, but about 70, that means no change against this year's next year. Let's talk about the facts, let's not talk about it when it's planned, because the 2015 budget wasn't forecasted to grow more than 4%. I am not criticizing this, none of us has been so optimistic and it is good that the economy is growing faster than not only members of the Chamber of Deputies predict, but also institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Czech National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, and I could continue to see who is doing all these forecasts. So then when you look at it, we find that even though we like to talk about savings, the operating parts, whether really overhead costs or wage costs, are actually not saving, and on the contrary, spending is increasing by the index method. And to me and us that the ministers and ministries originally wanted, I don't know, 30, 50, 70 billion. More, and by cutting it off, she spared it, it's kind of folklore. The experienced administrator of the chapter will simply overshoot it so that, in the course of negotiations with his minister, or then with the finance minister or then with the government as a whole, he has nowhere to retreat. So that's where our designs were headed and headed. Individual expenditure shall be documented in quite detail. I don't want to criticize the way the state budget is discussed. The Finance Minister was present in the Committee on Budgets. I do not understand, therefore, the Minister of the Environment, how it is that not one deputy has bothered to come up with a budget for the Committee on the Environment. I consider it an outrage, and a confident committee would simply reject it. But it happened that even the Minister, I would still understand whether he had some foreign trip or other obligation, but not one deputy - I don't know, Minister, how many you have, but the Secretary of State is simply not enough to defend the state budget. [[12.20 hours]] However, the government as a whole has about four months to prepare the budget. I think that the first proposal that the government was discussing is, as a standard, sometime in June when such initial proposals are being discussed. And June, July, August, September, four months, when the government and the army of officials at individual ministries prepare a draft budget. We'll get him on September 30th. We're about seven weeks after we got him today. And it's not just about a thousand sides of the budget, but if you add a single chapter book to it, because if you want to look for savings, you have to read a chapter book, it's thousands of pages. I apologize if there is a slight error in one of our amendments, or a minor illogicality, because that time is much less than my government, and of course the background, such as the bureaucratic apparatus, is much greater than the opposition. But that's always true. When we were in government, it was the other way around. So think of it more as a request that it is possible that something is not quite there and that maybe I rounded the number and I didn't exactly say it on the crown, so it is also given by the amount of data and by the amount of data. I would now move on to those two specific amendments. The first one has the number 3292, I will then hand both of them over to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, today as rapporteur. It concerns a number of proposals discussed to increase defense spending by 2 billion 280 million. I wrote the programming funding chapter by an amount of 2 million 280 according to the defense committee's proposal. I'm sorry about the little mistake. The exact name of the item is "EDS/SMVS programme financing'. I do not have these eight letters, but I believe that the rapporteur will allow such a proposal to be put to the vote, that it is a minor deficiency, or it is not the whole name written, or it could be a legislative technical regulation. We have found the money under the General Treasury, or we propose to find it in this item, but not in general, but in four indicators, where we think it is possible to reduce the indicator of building savings by an amount of 100 million, pension insurance and supplementary pension savings by an amount of 200 million, the expenditure of the chapter, which is called an indicator of compensation for victims of crime, the damage caused in the exercise of public authority, the litigation of the protection of the person and the legal proceedings for the limitation of property rights and other refunds by 80 million, and an indicator of export support, the savings of CZK 1 billion 900 million. Number 3292. But I say, the real author is the defense committee. As I have learned from my colleagues, the $80 million is there to exceed $50 billion. I hope it's a symbolic amount. But if we say 2 percent of GDP and round GDP to some 4 billion 100 million, we still have a long way to go to 82 billion. But I believe that even in view of the current international security situation, we will be able to make the journey together, because I think that defense spending is a common cause for both the coalition and the opposition. And we are proposing this as a responsible opposition, joining the proposal to strengthen defense spending. The second amendment has the number 3299. It contains about 30 items in total. It's in writing, and I'm going to mention at least some where we think expenditures are budgeted too high, really would either be neutral, or they could really be used for something else, and we're giving them to the government. All these items that we propose to reduce are in favour of the General Treasury. sickness insurance benefits minus a billion. If you look at the development in the years since 2012, we think the space is there and that the money would be left over. That, by the way, is also the money that Secretary Marksová then miraculously finds in the middle of the year or the end of the year and says, "I found the four, the five, the six billion in my budget." I think if we're going to budget, let's leave it in the government's budget reserve. Again, I recall the complex international situation, the migration wave. We don't know what the government's gonna need fast money for. And we, the members of the Committee on Budgets, know that the approval of the budget measures of a ministry is a rather bureaucratic and lengthy process, and if it is a higher amount, it must even come to plenary at the Chamber of Deputies. Another item, and spoke of it by President Fiala, are benefits in material distress, when they grow (?) unemployment, pay increases mainly in the public sphere, but also in the private sector, and the government increases benefits in material distress. And it sounds nice, but when we realize that there is also a housing supplement under this item - and I think that many of them, I say not all, but many of us believe, and rightly that there is abuse of the housing supplement, so the money is not well and effectively spent. We are proposing to reduce this item by 1 billion again. But basically, if it gets away with it, you can look for it in the supplement, not in the actual amount of help in material distress. And it would be enough for the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to act in accordance with a law which we have jointly approved here with almost a hundred percent of the votes, and to leave a binding position to the municipalities that know best whether or not the person who accepts the housing supplement is using it. But the MPSV relied on the interpretation of the Ministry of the Interior that municipalities should simply do it, but it doesn't really matter, the opinion doesn't matter. And then there's no savings. That's perfectly logical. Another item that relates to the good situation in the labour market and also to the expected economic growth is the reduction of unemployment aid by half a billion. I believe many of you are talking to employers in their regions. We are slowly approaching the state that we remember the last time in 2008, that even in regions with relatively high unemployment, such as the Moravian-Silesian region, which I represent here, employers have a hard time getting a workforce, even though there is above average unemployment on the Republic average. So there's a way, these people can go to work and we can cut the unemployment benefit. The most popular item of almost everyone, I don't say all, Ministers of Labour and Social Affairs. The favourite item of our leftist colleagues, which is called active employment policy. Soft money, soft projects, back and forth training, no measurable results - the proposed amount of 10 billion for next year. Ten billion! And if anyone says 'Well, because we're going to draw them from the European Union', let's not rip them off. We should evaluate really in the last six years, we can evaluate three governments how active employment policy resources have been drawn, how much and what the results are. If there are any measurable results at all. Of course, the organizations that draw the money are very fond of training, you all know that. Training, especially there must be a presentation list, a flag of the European Union, a photo, and already billing rent, refreshments, reward to the lecturer. Everyone says how long-term unemployed people work one, two, three trainings. It's not real, it's not realistic, it's not happening. We're proposing $10 billion again. This is not an active employment policy, it is actively wasted money. I'm convinced of that for a long time. But I'm saying, it's an item that the ministers of work and social affairs almost everyone loves very much. Here we propose to save or transfer to the government's budget reserve of CZK 2 billion. When we criticized high wage spending, in several chapters - I will not quote it because it is written - we propose to reduce wage spending because we think that in some chapters the proposed increase is unjustified. But what I'm saying right now is that if I'm talking about savings in operating expenses, in overhead expenses, in wage expenses, there are ministries - and I'm going to mention the Ministry of Defense again - where we're not proposing to take anything away. So it's not like we're taking everybody. We think that some proposals for increasing the number of employees are correct. But the biggest problem is that the total amount of wages and related expenditure is increasing. The road should be different. If we want to increase the attractiveness of the public service, we need to increase wages. And the only way we can increase wages is to make it work in the long run, to increase efficiency, to reduce the number of employees, and to pay them better. I think that's the right principle. We tried to do it. As successfully, you can look at those trend tables and graphs, how many employees were, what was the average salary etc., and we think that's the way. Not what colleagues from the left and trade unions like again. Even though I've never been to the union, they're not colleagues. I wasn't on my left either, so they're not colleagues either. Left-wing politicians and unionists prefer to add the same to everyone. [[A note from the benches.]] Fellow Members of the Chamber of Deputies, I agree, they are indeed colleagues and colleagues. [[12.30 hours]] I think we're supposed to raise public service salaries, public service salaries right, but not everyone, not across the board. And instead of talking about some motivational factors, the road is the other way around. We cancel contractual salaries, we put money on tariffs, for example, we raised tariffs for all officials in cities, municipalities and regions, we didn't increase the amount of money else, it would result in a non-interest component, the incentive component, will decrease. Logically, if I have to raise the mandatory one. So there are some savings proposed in some chapters. We propose to transfer 1 billion to the government's budget reserve. from the Ministry of Environment's budget for climate protection. This is also a popular topic especially for green activists, climate protection. I think the government can invest that billion better than spending it here. We also propose to reduce the Ministry of Environment's budget in favour of government budget reserves by 0.5 billion. other environmental activities. I'm getting to the Ministry of Regional Development. Housing support, we propose to cut by 100 miles. I think the best thing would be to cancel the housing development fund, it's as unsystemic as all the other funds that stand next to the budget. Let us note that the budget does not contain all the expenditure of the state. The historical reason is long overdone. Memorialists say the funds were being set up, because they couldn't so-called transfer money from year to year, always the greatest devil in the government was the finance minister, the departmentism lasts until today, so it doesn't give the finance minister the money. That's why the funds were being set up. That's no longer necessary. Unused claims today are normally budgeted items that the government assesses each year, and it is some medium-term task. I think that if we could get rid of the funds and have all the expenses in the state budget in one document, it would be better. We propose that the Ministry of Industry and Trade reduce the business support chapter by 2 billion. I think that the best support for business that a sensible government and a sensible parliament can do - do not do business or interfere. When we put these simple two words into action, it is the best support for business so that we do not unnecessarily interfere by creating new and new, more and more regulations. Yesterday we had tourism, before we had insurance companies, we had cash registers, control reports, one after the other. And not only the big, politically interesting ones, but there's a lot of other materials, they're experts in the Ministry of the Environment. Mr. Secretary, let your people see what a small company must be showing, to whom it must report everything. Then the companies - and let's be realistic - kind of shoot from the side, and then we add exactly how many kilograms of paper have been destroyed by the companies, how much paper, hazardous waste, and so on. I mean, if this report was one place, and it's not just about the environment, it's gonna get very simple, and that's the real business support. I'm gonna run away a little bit. I saw on TV yesterday an interview with the head of the tax administration, who did not seem to have the results of an international comparison, how many hours will the average Czech company spend fulfilling its tax obligations. That number is catastrophic. To be honest, it must be said that this is not the result of merely the activities of this government. Those responsibilities went up continuously, packed up. If we find that the surrounding countries - I will not name an ideal one - the surrounding countries have about 50 percent lower, then we should add support for business here and not introduce a subsidy title to support the acquisition of consultants who will do it for the entrepreneur, but really reduce the bureaucratic burden. Of course, I do not know the exact methodology of the calculation, but by questioning it and that it does not seem to us and that it cannot be as strange as the fact that they have fewer in Slovakia and fewer in Poland and less in Austria, it does not seem to me - that is not the right way. So if we want to support business, let's try in this direction, for example. And we don't have to have a hard and sometimes sharp political debate about individual rates. This is rather a debate about exceptions, about what new responsibilities are, about what is going on, about what the state is getting or not getting new data and new data. This week, I read again such an alarming report that 70 percent of businesses failed to comply with their information requirements in relation to the trade register. That's probably true. But the state has all the data, but in the tax administration. He doesn't have them on his business record. So instead of simplifying it and sending it out of that one place, or publishing it on that tax portal, we've been solving the problem for years why dozens of percent of companies don't give up reports. But those statements are available to the state, only in another place. And it's very complicated. When I tried to change it in the last term, I - I don't want to name the particular Minister of Justice directly, but it wasn't Pavel Blažek - he just said, "It's not possible, it's very complicated. At the same time, the company does not dare to give up tax returns, or the vast majority of companies. I'm sure it's not 70, 80 percent of the companies. So if the state has the data and the information, why is it forcing companies to count again and again? I know the case of a Opava firm that returned a trade register a few years ago with data that they couldn't read because they sent it to a DVD, but they only had computers with CDs. Well, in the meantime, the same data was in paper form. And that, of course, counts in the 468 hours, it has to be scanned, sent somewhere. And that's how it grows, the responsibilities. That's the right business support, not an item at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I spoke, and I hate to say it, but we are proposing to reduce the subsidy for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, because even if we leave the number there and you reject the proposal, I guarantee you that when we discuss the final account for 2016, there will be a higher amount than the one we say: let's make it available to the government, so he may have the money ready for emergency situations. Then we have the Minister of Finance not to take it personally, supporting the agrifood complex, an amount of over 40 billion. We're suggesting we cut by 1 billion to at least stop the trend as it continues to grow. We're not suggesting zero, we're not suggesting a dramatic reduction of 10 percent, 20 percent, there's nothing personal about it. The last items that I would probably mention relate to overhead costs, materials, services, here we cross-cuttingly propose to cut by 2 percent, I think. We have a debate in the coming years about an item called non-investment transfers to private entities. Very often, it is argued under this heading that this is the co-financing of European programmes. But in itself, the name of non-investment transfers to private entities - there we should try to keep the amount as low as possible. And it's growing relatively fast again, I think, by 7 billion. I introduced our proposals that we worked on together at the club. I want to thank my colleagues who have been going over the chapters. We consider the proposal quite helpful by putting the money at the disposal of the government. I will then ask the rapporteur, at third reading, to vote separately on the various proposals, they are not related, but we did not want to overtake the number of 30 amendments. I think if it's for the club, it could be in one. I tried to justify how the law lays down individual items. I apologize for any minor inaccuracies. This is really due to the huge amount of material we have in the state budget, and by the fact that, of course, we do not have as extensive apparatus as the Ministry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u110	I thank the President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjur for his speech and we continue the debate with Mr Stanislav Grospič's proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u111	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am, of course, sorry and, on the basis of the rapporteur's warning, I would like to clarify my amendment that I propose that this increase for Chapter 327 specifically to block 503 and that item relating to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure be taken from Chapter 398 of the General Treasury from heading 5183, that is to say, general financial matters not otherwise classified, and that is to say 200 million. it has humiliated the amount.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u112	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. That was the last one entered into the debate at the moment. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed second-reading debate on the state budget. It's not like that. And since this is a second reading, according to the special provision of §105 of the Act on Rules of Procedure, I am ending the debate, and this also concludes the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister of Finance, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point 5. We still have a little time until 13:00. I am looking for the Minister of Education, who is ready, in which case we will continue until 13:00 with a government bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions and on the amendment and addition of other laws, as amended, and some other laws pursuant to the Chamber of Press 464. Before... [[Mrs Kovářová approaches the President and talks to him outside the microphone.]] We're among the points, colleague. [[Call off the microphone.]] I started another point. Now we're in a difficult situation... To be honest, I have no choice but to address you, my fellow Members, with a request from a very special colleague, who, in her speech in a detailed debate, did not exactly express her application to the amendment. So I'm asking you at the risk of rejecting me, that I would not have started point 22 yet, even though I gave the initial formula, but somehow returned to the state budget point. If the President of the ODS wants to help me, I will be glad because I have limited options from the point of view of the President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u113	Since there was only a detailed debate at second reading and not a general detailed one, I think the only solution is that the rapporteur will be generous and identifies Mrs Kovářová's speech, which spoke to a specific amendment, that she has applied to it. 'Cause I'm afraid otherwise we'd have, because the point is over, we'd have to repeat the second reading, and I just don't think that's possible. But with some generosity from the rapporteur, I intercede for that, and I see the chairman of the budget committee here, so I think it's... I was watching the deputation, I have no doubt that she signed up for it in her speech. This, in my view, is legislatively clean and correct, and we will be able to vote on this amendment at third reading. But in my opinion, we would have to decide on the inclusion of a new point and we would have to repeat that third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u114	No, I can vividly imagine what I'd have to do, but... I will also question the rapporteur's view of Mrs Kovářová's speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u115	Thank you for the floor. I don't have a problem with that. But, of course, if there's any questioning, I wouldn't want that. Personally, as rapporteur, I have no problem with that. It's true that my colleague was supposed to be here, and she was supposed to sign up for what's in the system, that's true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u116	The point is, in her speech in the debate, she justified, but she did not state the formula for signing up for the specific House document. I realize that because I was here before I took turns with the Vice-President. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u117	Well, I'm sorry. I misunderstood you. Yes, I have no objection to that, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-001-005.u118	We'll decide in the vote anyway. Then, if anyone were to question it, of course, it's a second question. So, then, we have solved this tiny procedural problem, and I will repeat that we will launch item number 22 of our agenda, which has been firmly included in today's meeting, and that is
