ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 29th session of the Chamber of Deputies and I warmly welcome you all. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mr Rykala votes with card number 17. I would like to inform you that these Members have asked to apologise for their failure to participate in the negotiations. Mrs Bebarová-Rujbrová - foreign travel, Mr Černoch from 6:30 pm - working grounds, Mrs Dobešová - foreign travel, Mr Fiala - family reasons, Mrs Golasowská - personal reasons, Vice-President Gazdík does not apologise, but votes with card number 22, Mr Pavel Holík apologizes within 16 o'clock - working reasons, Mr Kádner - family reasons, Mr Kostřica - medical reasons, Mr Koubek - personal reasons, Mr Lank - medical reasons, Mrs Marková - family reasons, Mr Nykl - working grounds, Mr Okleštěk - health reasons, Mr Skacký - personal Skalický, Mr Šincl - foreign road, Member Vácha - working grounds, Mr Vondrášek - medical reasons and Mr Ženíšek - working grounds. The Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček apologizes from the members of the government, also for work reasons. So many apologies. Before I go on, I'm asking for peace. Please take your seats... [[He's waiting.]] I will not continue to negotiate until the noise level has substantially decreased. [[He's waiting again.]] I would first like to inform you that the Government, by its resolution number 534, has withdrawn the Government's draft law amending Act No. 38/2004 Coll., on insurance intermediaries, press 415, please do not apply paragraphs 8 and 123. I would also like to inform you that the Senate has returned these bills to the Chamber of Deputies: a bill amending Act No.565/1990 Coll., on Local Fees, Press 219, a bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on Public Health Protection, Press 270, and a bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on Road Communications, Press No. 374. The deadline for their discussion expired on 3 July and is therefore in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the EC Treaty. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the 29th meeting be included in the agenda. I would also like to inform you that this morning's Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies agreed on the following proposals: Firstly, to comply with the request of the Chair of the Committee on Petitions and to eliminate paragraph 166, print 446. Point 173, which is House document 2529, state honours, to place firmly on today, on Tuesday, as the first point. Point 125, print 395 in third reading, place firmly on Wednesday 8 July for a fixed item 122, i.e. as the seventh point. Furthermore, we propose that the Chamber of Deputies should act and vote on all proposals on Tuesday, 7 July until 21 o'clock, i.e. after 19 o'clock until 21 o'clock, and on Thursday 9 July after 19 o'clock, 21 o'clock and possibly after 24 o'clock. This is a proposal for a procedure on which the grémium has been agreed. Mr Kalousek card number 20, Mr Tejc card number 31. If there is no objection, I would have voted on the proposals from the Gremium, so that we know where we stand, and then I will open the debate on the draft programme. The proposal from the Gremium was made, and we would vote, including my proposal, to include Senate press in the agenda of the meeting. Everything I've read here, in one vote. There's no objection? It's not like that. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 150, registered as 160, for 151, against 1, this proposal has been adopted. I am now opening the debate on the agenda. I have here the application from Mr Okamura, Mr Fiedler, Mrs Havlová and Mr Černoch. Is Mr Černoch exercising priority rights? Yes. In that case, Mr Černoch was the first, after which Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose the inclusion of an extraordinary item on the agenda of this House, and this is the Prime Minister's information on the reception of illegal immigrants. The proposal is to include this as the first point of the negotiations today. When we asked for the Prime Minister's information on the immigration crisis at the beginning of this meeting about 20 days ago, the government's coalition was swept off the table with the fact that illegal immigration in our country was essentially not a problem and the government rejected mandatory quotas. Unfortunately, it was a bit of a fake game, and not only from the Prime Minister, but also from the whole coalition, coalition MPs. During the extraordinary meeting of the House on the issue of reception of refugees, representatives of social democracy assured us that we were forced to enter the open door, because the entire Visegrad group clearly declared that they would reject the compulsory quotas, so they would actually meet our demand. None of the government officials had the courage to say openly that the government had actually decided to accept illegal immigrants and to submit to Brussels' dictation. She just made her decision about the so-called "mantra." voluntary admission. We will simply reject what they wanted us to do from Brussels to the citizens of the Czech Republic, but we will do so voluntarily. There are several facts to this tactic. First, at the time of the emergency meeting, an ad was running for about 14 days on the jobs.cz website, where the Ministry of the Interior was looking for new workers for newly established refugee facilities, as well as for facilities where capacity is quickly increased. Where new asylum seekers are to be from, it is clear from one of the conditions for applicants, where it is clearly stated that the applicant should have experience in a multicultural environment, multicultural coexistence or at least respect for such coexistence. So it is hard for anyone to tell us that the new capacity of refugee camps is being prepared for people coming, for example. from Ukraine or another country culturally close to us. At the same time, information from the already closed asylum facilities, where the Ministry of the Interior calls them and seeks to reopen them or increase capacity, began to appear. So that means that at the same time that the Prime Minister assured us in the House that we were rejecting compulsory quotas, government officials were already preparing capacity for the adoption of several thousand illegal refugees, in full compliance with what Brussels bureaucracy enforces. The reason for such a meeting, I think that the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs accidentally revealed this at the public meeting of the petition committee with petents of petitions against mandatory quotas, when, on the direct question of what happens when the Czech Government rejects quotas, he said: well that would probably be Brusel' first to stop us from drawing on cohesion funds. So the effort to keep the European Union's budget flowing clearly leads the Prime Minister to lie to the nation live on this issue. [[14.10 hours]] This whole betrayal of the nation is to be completed on Wednesday, when the government is to vote that we will receive illegal immigrants, and then on Thursday, when the Prime Minister will solemnly hand over this immigrant bianco cheque to Brussels. We completely refuse to do that. During this extraordinary point, we therefore propose that the Chamber of Deputies commit the Czech Government to reject any redistribution of illegal immigrants into our country. The government cannot take steps that are so fundamentally threatening the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u3	Yes, I made a note. Before Mr Okamura comes forward, there are still two requests for a performance with priority rights - President Kalousek and then President Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to declare the readiness of the TOP 09 to comply with the agreement on the procedural process of this meeting. Secondly, given what has happened in recent days and weeks, I cannot say that we believe that it is the task of the Chamber of Deputies to adopt, as soon as possible, a rather fundamental resolution on the issue of crimes that occurred in the violent rural collectivisation of the 1950s. It did not occur to me that I would suggest such a thing, but I cannot otherwise at a time when the Minister of Agriculture of the Czech Government participates in the 60th anniversary of the establishment of JZD in Oprostovice in Přerovsk, which arose there in 1955 as a result of the violent collectiveization of agriculture, as at that time almost all agricultural cooperatives, and he as Minister of Agriculture of the agrosocialist government happily celebrates this step and this state. The thing in itself would be scandalous, but it could be solved in the context of interpelation or newspaper articles. What cannot be resolved in the context of interpelation and newspaper articles is the interpretation of this past, which was distributed in a written publication on that occasion. In a written publication bearing the logo of the Ministry of Agriculture, I assume that in the presence of the Minister of Agriculture, and bearing the logo of the Minister of Agriculture, at least institutional and moral was provided, even though morals in this case cannot be talked about, but probably financial patronage. In this brochure for celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the foundation of the JZD, we can read the extraordinary formulation of how the colchozization of our agriculture was actually created. In this guide, supported by the Minister of Agriculture, we can read: After World War II, young people left the countryside to work in factories. That is why there was a decline in labor in the countryside, and farmers had to help each other, so cooperativeism arose. Therefore, in 1955, JZD was founded in Přerovsk as well. All of us who come from the countryside, we have ancestors and we are over 50 years old, we know that this is how it was that the young went to the cities and the old said, Comrade, I'm running out of strength, take care of my cows, take care of my horses, and take the chickens too, and over the limits, I'm getting a little crazy, comrade, let's rip them apart together. I realize I'm using a certain exaggeration right now. And I don't want to downplay it, and I certainly don't want it to look like an opposition attack on the coalition minister. I don't care what Minister Jurečka thinks about it and what Minister Jurečka will say about it. What he thinks and what Minister Jurečka will say, he has clearly already said by attending the celebrations. It's simply Babiš's neocommunist agrobaronist calm force. But what the Chamber of Deputies think about the crimes of violent collective agriculture in the 1950s, I think it is very important for the future. It's not that funny. It says something once, twice, then it's written in a brochure, then it's written by some ministry and some neobelshevik labeling it, and then it's true. Then it's repeated on the servers. I hope no one gets offended when I say it's a little Auschwitz lie. And that it is a matter of the responsibility of this House that they will not allow violent collectiveization crimes to be interpreted so that the young have gone to work in the fabric of the cities, the old have lost their strength, and that is why they have to turn to those comrades to help each other. That it's different. That they were crimes. That it was closing. That they were tens of thousands of ruined human destinies, taken possession, crimes. Crimes that the Minister of Agriculture denies today by promoting these shameful communist-propagandist brochures and participating in shameful communist-propagandist debates and celebrations. At 10 o'clock, I asked my fellow Members, the President of the Clubs, to discuss this this week. They reminded me of an absolutely firm agreement, incorruptible what we will discuss this week and what cannot be extended by the House of Deputies programme. I'm prepared to respect the deal. I am saying this because I believe that the Chamber of Deputies for the future, for the interpretation of history, must be able to adopt resolutions for subsequent collectivisation. Either it was fine, and it was in favour of the old ones who had gone to work in the cities, as they claim-- excuse me, Minister Jurečka, or it was a series of totalitarian crimes. I believe that the Chamber of Deputies must be able to settle for this. This resolution must become part of this country's history. We will propose this resolution and this point, in order to respect the agreement for this week, in September. And I beg all of you to think about it by September. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u5	Thank you. Other performances with priority rights - President Sklenák and then Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased that President Kalousek has changed the absolutely firm agreement on the course of the meeting this week. It is evident from President Černoch's speech that we understand such clear agreements in a different way. In response to his proposal on behalf of the Social Democracy and the YES Club, I am raising the veto against the inclusion of this point, and I hope that we will veto any further proposal, because we have just agreed on how the meeting will take place this week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u7	Chairman Kalousek, really? [[Yes.]] Yeah, well, that takes precedence over priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u8	It's probably pointless, because there's no discussion, but logically, it's appropriate. The veto isn't appropriate. I'm not suggesting anything. I express my indignation over the totalitarian rhetoric of the Minister of Agriculture of the Czech Republic and claim that we will not leave this Auschwitz lie on the sidewalk and that we will return to it in the autumn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u9	Mr President, I understood the veto on the proposal made by Mr Černoch, not on your proposal. Isn't that right? Yes. Mr. Chairman Černoch, really? I'm sorry, I can't let go of the facts. We don't have a debate, I'm sorry. I apologize to Minister Jurečka for choosing President Kalousek. Without factual rights, only preferential rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u10	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, I would like to say that if Mr Kalousek's fellow Member had read my comments on the Ministry's website this morning, he would have been very clear. The brochure, which was mentioned and quoted here, came out without the Ministry of Agriculture's knowledge, it was not to the extent of the patronage, the brochure was not submitted to any of the employees of the Ministry of Agriculture for approval, the logo was used unlawfully and the brochure will not receive the municipal office or crown. So it's just that there was a material that neither I nor my colleagues at the Department of Agriculture saw. Again, it wasn't even to the extent of the patronage they originally asked for. I must say that I am clearly on the spot - I say this again - condemned the collectivization, the violent collectiveization of the Czech countryside. I must say that the idea of the cooperative is, in essence, an interesting idea, even at the time of the first Republic, our great-grandfathers often joined voluntary cooperatives, for example, of the dairy, or of the founding of cooperatives, such as peasant confectionery and other joint enterprises. Voluntarily. But what happened after 1948 is completely different. And here I clearly said in the same place in Oprostovice during my speech that I certainly do not identify with this idea, condemn it and I sincerely regret all the victims who were tens of thousands affected in the Czech countryside. I have to say, it has touched my family, my grandfather from one side, so my grandfather from the other side. So I really think that Mr Miroslav Kalousek here, Mr Kalousek, is creating a story that is not, he is in this master, but on the other hand, I think I understand him because he himself went through the period of 2006, so it can be partly understood that today he is very concerned, because he himself was the one who, as President of the KDU-ČSL, wanted to establish the government of KDU-ČSL and the ČSSD with the support of the communists, so he probably also experienced something from which he has a real nightmare today, and I understand that he is very concerned today, which is why he came out here with this. Again, if he had read the statement this morning on the Ministry of Agriculture's website, he would have been very clear about the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u11	I will ask Mr Černoch if he wants to exercise the right of priority. He does. He reported to President Kalousek, so he has the floor if he wishes to speak with priority rights. Then President Kalousek, still a priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr President, a colleague of Mr Sklenák. Of course, it is your right to bring it in, but I think there was some resolution 642, where it is written, or where it is stressed that the government will regularly inform the Chamber of Deputies, which was not the case. And it's a shame that we have to ask for it this way. You have the right to do this, we didn't want to make it into any theater, we only wanted information and we consider it a far more serious and more important point than some that are included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u13	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I would like to say to the Minister of Agriculture that what he has just done here is chuffe. Your family history as regards the peasant possessions of your grandfathers is well known to me, Mr. Secretary. I've known him at least since I took you on the side. After all, sometimes we all make personnel mistakes. But family history is not an argument. That's a commitment we either honor or we embezzle. It's up to you how you decide on such a thing. Of course, I read what you published this morning. That's completely ridiculous. You're saying, I've provided a patronage, I've put the logo on it, and I didn't know what they were gonna do or what they were gonna write, I had no idea what they were doing in Oprostovice 60 years ago. Minister, if you were to go up there and say, "You have published a brochure with these scandalous statements, I am disavowing myself from these statements and protesting that the logo of the Ministry of Agriculture should be on the brochure, I am here to condemn collectivization, so maybe I wouldn't even be performing. But we know what you said. I'm able to interpret your speech in September. You were there celebrating collectivization and cooperativeism. And on the brochure with these scandalous statements is the emblem and emblem of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Czech Republic, which you have officially shielded. I repeat again that you have not shielded anything less than a small Auschwitz lie and that from one of the darkest events of Czech history in the Czech countryside you are trying to make an idyll - comrade, the young have gone into the fabric, take care of the cows. I understand that the Faltýnek and Babiš love this interpretation. But we won't let you. And we'll get back to that in September.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u15	That was President Kalousek's speech. I don't see any more priority rights. I have three applications for a meeting. All three are proposing a new point. Of course, I don't want to deny anyone the right to propose anything to anyone, I'm just saying that I understood President Sklenák's speech in such a way that whatever you're proposing will be unvoted. President Okamura. Please. I also draw attention to § 54 para. 6 that the time to justify the proposal to amend the programme is five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a point on the agenda of the meeting entitled Referendum on the stay of the Czech Republic in the European Union and the position of Islamic Sharia law and jihad out of law. [[Laughing in the hall]] I propose that we vote on a resolution which reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic considers the spread of extreme Islam and illegal migration a fundamental threat to the security of the Czech Republic. The fundamental cause of this threat is the policy and functioning of the European Union. The Chamber of Deputies, aware of its responsibility to the citizens of the Czech Republic, calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare a law on referendums, where citizens of the Czech Republic will be able to comment on the continuation of our country in the European Union, and also calls on the Government to urgently prepare legislative steps defining the dissemination and promotion of Sharia and jihad as a criminal offence threatening freedom, democracy and human rights. And now a brief explanation. History knows examples of the decay and fall of civilizations, cultures and states. The common feature of these phenomena has always been that people at the beginning had no idea that the breakup had already begun. Those who draw attention to danger are referred to as extremists and peace invaders. This House has become primarily an executor of the EU's legislative will. This House has its ears clogged today and its eyes covered. You approve of regulation and nonsense just because we have allowed the loss of sovereignty to our law and resigned to our national interests and state interests. Instead, we believed in building a perfectly regulated multicultural superstate. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a big mistake. Today we are not dealing with an EU-building accident. Terrorist attacks, immigration wave, Islamization, debt crisis, they're not malfunctions. It is a legitimate consequence of the functioning of the European Union, in close cooperation with lobbyists of bankers, armorers and industrialists both from the United States of America and from Europe. The immigration wave is also the result of years of efforts by the arms lobby to disrupt states and create civil wars wherever America's lobby is in some way an uncomfortable regime. With all due respect for dictators, Kaddáfí, Asad, or the American ally Saddám Husajn in their entire lives, they have not committed as much evil and pain as they have experienced and experienced today the inhabitants of their lands after their overthrow. It turns out that the path of the current European elite is destroying countries far south or east, but it is also starting to destroy European countries themselves. The continuation of the current form of European integration threatens the fundamental interests of the Czech state and its citizens. Illegal immigration and the spread of extreme Islam are in direct context and are part of a wrong plan to create an EU superstate. [[14.30 hours]] This plan means the end of Czech statehood, nation and culture. We are in the middle of a real jihadist war with Evropan. Only a state can succeed in it, and a nation that will once again find the values for which it is worth fighting. Nobody fights for a multicultural superstate. I don't know anyone who'd sacrifice his life for Brussels, but I know that for my country, for Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, yes. For their particular cities and villages, for their families. And that, without a word, will do a very large part of our nation. If the peoples of Europe are to fight the dangers that come upon them, they must fight for themselves, not for officials from Brussels. Illegal immigration and Islamization are connected vessels. It is necessary to name evil, it is necessary to say the enforcement of Sharia law and jihad - it is necessary to say that it is an evil that threatens our freedom. It is necessary to legally anchor our right to defend ourselves against this. Multicultural pseudohumanists will be the first victim. In this case, European politicians, for whom Hitler was a trendy political partner, make the same mistake as in the 1930s. It was US money and the political support of Great Britain that put Hitler on his feet. Like Hitler, there's no deal with Islamists. Dear Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, I would like to ask you to support the inclusion of this item at the House meeting and the support of the proposed resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u17	Yes. Mr. Fiedler will be next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u18	Good afternoon, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I get to the specific proposal, I will only read a brief quote from the House of Deputies resolution of 12 February 2015, resolution 642 2: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to keep informed of the positions it will advocate at all foreign negotiations dealing with security and immigration policy." How the extraordinary meeting took place we all saw. Now, get to the point. I would like to propose the inclusion of an extraordinary item on the House's agenda, namely the Information of the Minister of Interior on the security situation at national borders. I suggest we include him as the second item today. One thing, of course, is to prevent the redistribution of illegal immigrants, but it must be noted that immigrants are moving across the European Union, regardless of the quotas our government or Brussels is making up or allegedly voluntarily accepting. In our territory, there are already an order of greater or unspecified number of illegal refugees than it was a few days ago. Germany, France, Austria, Hungary and the United Kingdom are closing their borders. Austria, effective immediately until further notice, suspended the asylum procedure, thus completely interrupting the granting of asylum. France is unable to prevent the devastation of its municipalities, and it is only with great difficulty that it seeks to protect international road transport's cargo waters from aggressive immigrants who want to get to Great Britain in any way. I was in Calais to see what it looked like, and the situation is that the representatives of the French police said they couldn't comment on it, but they just couldn't handle it. I'm not getting any information from the Internet or any messages from truck drivers. I went to see what the situation looked like. If you look on the Internet, you'll find out what the situation is, how many alleged children and how many alleged women are among immigrants. I'll tell you - I didn't see any women there, and I didn't see any kids. I saw it with my own eyes, so I know what I'm talking about. But the group of immigrants that were there were all young, grown, healthy, and physically very mature men. I have very serious doubts that these are the real immigrants. Hungary is solving conflicts in refugee camps and is rapidly building a fence on the border with Serbia to protect the external border of the Schengen area. What did the Czech government say? So far, it is merely silent and foggy in front of its citizens and in front of us Members and does not give true information. We called on the government to close the borders, because after Austria and Hungary did so, we became de facto a border country of the Schengen area. But even if we understand the borders of the Czech Republic as the internal border of Schengen, we must remember the text of the Schengen Treaty. Chapter I - Crossing internal borders, Art. Article 2 (1) (a) 2: "Where public policy or state security so requires, the Contracting Party may decide, after consulting the other Contracting Parties, that national checks appropriate to the situation will be carried out at internal borders for a limited period of time. Where public policy or state security so requires, immediate action shall be taken by the Contracting Party concerned and shall inform the other Contracting Parties as soon as possible.'; Thus, the renewal of border control, if you want to simply close borders, is not a violation, but rather a literal implementation of Schengen agreements. The Federal Republic of Germany has renewed checks at its borders from 26 May to 8 June 2015 in accordance with this provision of the Schengen Agreement. Bavarian police have checked 105,000 people in two weeks, 430 of them have banned entry to the country, another 8,600 are investigating for violations of immigration rules. We should probably ask ourselves what an illegal immigrant is, what we will support as illegal. Will we support other illegal matters? Is an illegal fugitive even a fugitive? Isn't that a person or a person who violates the laws of that country? I believe he is, in that case, not a fugitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u19	Thank you. Mrs Havlová. I'll ask President Kalousek if he's claiming priority rights. There you go. I apologise to Mrs Kalousek and then Mrs Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u20	Thank you. I'm sorry too, colleague. But when the President asked me, yes, I reported with the priority right to reply very briefly to Mr Okamur that I respect his views, which I do not share, but when he says that - his words - multicultural pseudohumanists make the same mistake as Hitler did when they supported him, I would have turned back here. "Multicultural pseudohumanists," in the words of Mr Okamura, certainly did, did and will make many mistakes, but certainly never supported Adolf Hitler. This interpretation is about as relevant as the efforts of Minister Jurečka to turn the violent collectiveisation of agriculture into a Ladov idylle. I reject your interpretation and your interpretation, Mr. Colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u21	Mrs Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, honourable Members, although there has been a veto, I would like to propose the inclusion on this House's agenda, the Information of the Minister of the Interior on the establishment of asylum facilities for refugees. I suggest we include him as the third item in today's negotiations. In our Moravian-Silesian region, of course, I am very interested in the situation in Vyšné Lhota, where the government decided to place the refugee camp. In particular, the residents of the surrounding municipalities are very worried about problems with immigrants. The transfer of the prison premises from the Ministry of Justice to the work of the Ministry of the Interior in order to create a refugee camp is almost symbolic. Justice leaves the village, crime can be expected. Nor does the information that it will be a detention camp, i.e. closed, change our view. After all, in neighboring Hungary, refugees are rebelling that they are being shut down and tearing down fences around the camp often because they are convinced that they are entitled to two hot meals a day. Citizens of Vyšné Lhot and petitions on the Internet protest against the location of asylum facilities, even though some of them could get jobs in this complex. It is therefore quite clear that fear of security and health risks simply prevails, and the inhabitants of the surrounding communities are particularly interested in the quiet life of their families and their families. [[14.40 hours]] The question is also whether the entire former capacity of the facility, namely 580 seats, has exceptionally been placed there, or even the total capacity will be increased, and it is a question of how much. I fear that in the end my worst fear is that a small village with a total population of about 800 people will have an invasion army of young men in the immediate vicinity, the population of which may even exceed. These young men come to our homeland accidentally because their destination country is Germany, and all the more so they can be frustrated when they get to a country they didn't want to go to, and they'll be locked in one place in a closed space without leaving. I can't imagine where such frustration can lead when it can be encouraged by Islamic State fighters who aren't hiding at all by sending their soldiers to Europe. At an emergency meeting, the government declared by the Prime Minister that it would not accept mandatory quotas, so it actually tricked not only this House, but our citizens and its voters in particular. The government has also denied a petition with over 180,000 signatures organized by the Bloc against Islam against the redistribution of illegal immigrants. As a Member of the citizens of the region at risk of such a risk, I want to know the clear answers whether the government is ready to face such serious risks and the asylum facility in Vyšné Lhotách will actually open up. At the same time, I'm asking you where else to open another facility and how much capacity you're going to increase for the current one. How do you ensure that people are really needed and not those who bring to our country the danger of terrorism and then the enforcement of the Sharia law, as we see it in a number of French or German cities. Once again, I refer to resolution 642, which was also approved by you, on 12 February 2015, where it is clear that the government is to inform us about these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-000-000.u23	Thank you, that was the last application for the agenda. I am merely saying that the veto of two parliamentary clubs has been raised against all the proposed new points, so we have nothing to vote on. I will also apologize to Mrs Válková, from the whole week until possibly 11. 7. for health reasons, and Minister Ťok will not be here all day for health reasons. So many apologies. We will now proceed to the approved agenda. Opening point
