ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-013-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraph 31 / House printing 513/ and point 32 / House printing 514/ The chairman of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Miroslav Kalousek is the first to report to this. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-013-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, let me ask you, colleagues from the government coalition, not to make fun of us. I completely understand President Votava's failure to report everything as President of the Committee on Budgets. But we reject the law that you consider essential, and we reject it from the other side, yes, that would be a really crucial breakthrough in human freedoms, so we refuse to change the rapporteurs as socks. Please consider it. You just don't do that. It happens that someone who was designated by the Organising Committee as rapporteur simply can't do it, so someone else will take it for him, but then he will make it to the end. I do not remember the institution of the alternate rapporteur for one day. Like Monday, it's gonna be Lojza and Tuesday Franta, and then it's gonna be... Franta gets scolded at the pub that he's reporting it, so I'm gonna give it back to somebody else. Indeed, Mr President, I beg you very much to consider this position of yours. And you, colleagues, I also ask that we do not make the Institute a comedy. At the same time, I would like to turn back and deny in the galley wandering reports that perhaps we have a file on Mr Klaška. We don't. [[Applause for Members of the ČSSD and Members in the right part of the hall.]] I think we are going to have a fairly consistent discussion about equality before the law, about what it will bring or will not bring to the state budget, about what it will bring or will not bring to entrepreneurs, about why retail is the most suspected group of entrepreneurs, when the government comes up with a proposal and says: You are all dishonest, but the most dishonest are innkeepers and retailers. Let's see who we apply it to in the next steps. These are all unacceptable things from our point of view, and certainly step by step we will discuss them very much and show ourselves what this can mean in practice. Therefore, allow me to start with a non-essential point for the state budget, and that is the cost of this project. The costs that, according to an internal study by the Ministry of Finance, she commissioned with BDO do not correspond to what Minister Babiš says about costs in public. Maybe he should let us know, in time, whether the lower figures are saying because he thinks they're gonna save money or because he doesn't believe the study he ordered and paid for. [[13.40 hours]] What's going on? Basically, online cash registers allow financial authorities to record all sales of designated entrepreneurs even before the entrepreneur gets the money from the customer. That's the operation. I don't know if the Ministry of Finance realizes that not all places in the Czech Republic are covered with high-speed internet, so from the municipalities, for example, around my native Bechyna, before the current coverage sends the innkeeper to the data centre and gets his confirmation back, the foam falls and the beer winds up. But that's just a detail. This model, that sales are recorded before I get the money from the customer, is so far used in Bulgaria and Croatia, but neither there nor in Croatia or Bulgaria do I suspect that it is not a range of 600 thousand. entrepreneurs to be connected to this system. I think 600 thousand. Entrepreneurs, with whom the Czech model of electronic sales records counts, are historically the largest project that can be doubted, and thus we risk all the resources spent. The cost of the computer system will not be in the hundreds of millions, but billions of costs will be allocated to the most expensive IT projects in the country. The reason message we have on the table, along with the law, states that the initial investment will be 400 million. and that the operating costs will remain below 200 million. per year. In five years' time, according to the explanatory report, the government's online treasury will be at 1.4 billion. If we compare these costs that the Treasury is presenting to us in the explanatory memorandum with its own internal study, which the Ministry of Finance has and refuses to publish, we will find that what is in the explanatory memorandum is greatly underestimated. Internal studies indicate significantly higher amounts. The cost of purchase is estimated to be 391 miles. and the annual operation lists 417 million. In the first five years, the price will reach 2.5 billion, not 1.4, as the Ministry of Finance claims in a public document. However, it should be added that the BDO study indicates an estimated 2.5 billion. for minimalist and that a significant increase in costs can be expected during the five years. In the 2.5 billion. are mainly included in the cost of new software, this represents 300 miles. Crowns. To the salaries of officials of the Financial and Customs Administration 200 million. CZK, IT experts 150 million. Crowns. The project also recommends that we issue funds for media purchase - I think we do not need to speculate in this case on which media will be contacted preferably - in the amount of 20 million. Crowns. Three million more count on new cars. And the same amount, i.e. three million, on cell phones and employee laptops. However, this does not include other costs of providing traffic, especially the equipment of data centres where the cash desk data will be stored. The study predicts that the system of online cash registers has to be processed - please listen carefully - to process 10 billion. transactions per year and that data from entrepreneurs will be recorded for ten years. According to the authors of the study, it will initially be sufficient to have the spare capacity which the ministerial firm of the State Treasury has at the Centre of Shared Services, an entity that was created by transformation from the State Price Printer at its headquarters in Prague, Žižkov. However, BDO's analysis warns that real data security will guarantee the transfer of the backup warehouse to another workplace. That means we're gonna need to build a new data center. The new data center, as far as I know, if the Minister can deny it to me, the Ministry of Finance wants to build in Zelenč u Prahy. The investment will certainly be in the order of billions. However, this investment is not included either in the Ministry of Finance's internal study or in the explanatory memorandum that we have at our disposal. In other words, the Chamber of Deputies is withheld from the available documentation that the approval of this project will trigger the necessary investment in the order of billions, and therefore the Chamber of Deputies is deceived from the point of view of the expenditure claims that this law will have. Of course, the cost will not only have the state. Costs which I believe will be higher than any expected possible income of value added tax. We'll just pay a lot more, and we'll pay a lot more each year than we can look forward to a higher collection. But, of course, the costs will also be borne by companies and tradesmen who join the system. I will refer again to the Minister's explanatory statement. It claims that it will not be a lot of money, and gives as a model the Croatian trade chain konzum local oligarchy Ivica Todorovič, which belongs to the main supporters of the online cash register. [[The laughter of several Members]] I don't know to what extent he's related to the Minister, but the explanatory memorandum doesn't say anything about that. The Todorovič calculated the total cost of introducing electronic sales records at around EUR five per login to the system. And other costs were borne by the supplier IT company as part of routine software maintenance. However, the Ministry of Finance's material does not mention whether the Consumer Chain had to strengthen its Internet connection and how much it cost for online sales. Certainly in our case, or in the case of the Czech Republic, a large part of the small and medium-sized ones will be exposed to this load. Even according to the Treasury Department, a small businessman will pay for something. New terminal for online sales will come in Croatia at 9,000. CZK, internet connection with sufficient capacity costs CZK 500 a month. According to the experts surveyed, this corresponds to domestic prices in our country as well. New terminals for 600 thousand. Czech tradesmen will thus cost 5 billion. So if we calculate the cost for all the businessmen, we're about 5 billion. I do not think this is the investment cost that will bring growth and competitiveness to the Czech Republic and the Czech business sector. It's just a dead load. I mean, not for suppliers of this system, it's going to be a very lively load. But for those who have to pay for it, it's simply an economic brake. If the government keeps its promise and makes it possible to write it off from taxes, here I think there's no reason to doubt it, the cost of the state to start the system will reach around 10 billion. Five hundred crowns monthly connection fee will cost domestic entrepreneurs an annual tax of 3.5 billion. Crowns. Three and a half billion crowns, that's such a nice tax increase. The entrepreneur doesn't really care if you raise his taxes or increase his mandatory cargo. He just has to pay for it. [[13.50 hours]] The grand project promises according to the internal study - here I would like to ask you, Minister, if you would consider releasing this study for the needs of the Chamber of Deputies. It is not publicly available on any website of the Ministry of Finance, I think it would be fair if every MP could have it. It has 184 pages, it can fit into everyone's computer. From the point of view of the businessman, it is mainly about registering with the nearest CzechPoint in the system. Then he must download software that could create a report on the accounting operation and then communicate with the Prague headquarters of the General Financial Directorate. This report will have 29 items - repeat: 29 items - for VAT payer. Those who will not be VAT payers will have ten less, just 19. We can sleep. The most space will take up information about the premises and a description of the receipt. The system captures the exact time the receipt was issued, and it will contain a numerical code - we will enrich the Czech with a new abbreviation: BKU, the participant's security code - by which the trader will sign his receipt. The central computer of electronic sales responds, the report states in 0.33 seconds, who does not believe to run there can be a maximum two-second delay. Essentially, the financial office will send a code that will be called a fiscal identification code, and that will confirm that it records the payment. Only then can the trader issue the receipt and collect the money and the customer can drink his stale beer with fallen foam. The proposal assumes that there will be malfunctions where the financial office cannot respond within two seconds. I think it's going to be a standard situation, unfortunately. But I do owe it to you to say that the proposal is counting on it. Then the trader can issue the receipt to the customer and send a message about it to the financial office within 48 hours with an explanation of why the delay occurred. The system will be so much tougher than the layman would expect. Delayed receipts will not be possible to send at once, i.e. batch, but they will have to be sent one at a time to respond separately to each office. So again in the villages around my native Bechyna, where it simply won't work without high-speed internet, the innkeeper will have nothing to do but sit down and fill out, like, four to five hours of receipts that he'll have to send to the tax office, because he has to do it within 48 hours, and please send each one separately so that the tax office has to answer each one separately. The 200 officials that the system envisages as a necessary increase are certainly minimal under this impression and view. We're gonna need an infinite number of them because they're all gonna answer every receipt they send from the pub in Černyšovic. Maybe it won't be that bad, because the innkeeper in Černýšovice just bails on it and closes the restaurant. I can't imagine a normal person willing to do that. The study also describes the functions offered by the public administration system. The most original of all, however, will be a sort of informer website for customers. I recommend to all of you, colleagues, that you visit the amazing opera Red Marie, which is presented by the National Theatre, and there is a beautiful aria "As we reported together, as we sued together." That's what we're going to sing now after the introduction of the EET in every village, every city, because we're going to have an informer website available. He won't report to him if he doesn't issue a receipt, in which case, of course, he's expected to contact customs officials immediately. The customer uses the site if he doesn't trust the trader to actually send the receipt to the central computer. The proposed procedure introduces a digitized form of reporting in the Czech Republic. The customer thus has the opportunity to verify that the sales have been correctly processed. He praises the study. Even the study calls it a "digitalized possibility of reporting." You can't stop progress. [[Laughter and applause from the right side of the hall.]] Therefore, such an informer fills in an electronic questionnaire, in which it primarily lists the codes, the BKP and the FIK from the receipt. If the receipt with these codes is not stored in the system, the system will automatically request additional information from the customer, in particular the name and address of the establishment. It shall then transmit all data to the control department of the General Financial Directorate, which shall examine the designated establishment. The system must not refuse control, it is stressed in the study. A conscientious customer will be electronically praised and assured that his complaint will be dealt with. I admit that as a graduate of the basic military service, I still miss getting a photograph with the Minister of Finance before the development of the pledge. That is not there, but maybe it can be applied as an amendment in the second reading. And if he's lucky, he'll get a reward. He will be asked if he agrees to be included in the lottery. We had a discussion here, colleagues and colleagues, a moment ago about the proof of the origin of the property, as it will develop the informer potential of Czech society. Can you imagine how this is going to be abused in a competitive struggle or a neighbourly relationship? It's just that if I turn you in, the Directorate General will come and check you out. That means when the neighbor didn't greet the neighbor in front of the church - dad, turn in the innkeeper. Someone on the street is an unpleasant competition for me, I do nothing but send a report to him, and the poor guy will do nothing but be vetted, vetted and verified. This is what the Ministry of Finance proposes to the Chamber of Deputies. On the other hand, an electronic whistleblower may have bigger problems than an ordinary anonymous writer. The system will log his address and date of notification. If he sends a statement from his computer, officials may reveal it if necessary. So suppose our informers visit us from time to time so that they can send it from our computer, not from their own, so that they can't be exposed. The government is in an extreme hurry to make this proposal. It was originally planned to start in January 2015, we will not be able to make it because we have June, then in January 2016, it is quite obvious that we will not be able to do it, and now the Treasury will run in mid-February 2016, if I remember correctly the last date, if there has not been any shift. Of course, it would not have been possible sooner, because it will not be able to approve the necessary legislation. And I'd like to make a binding promise here that you won't make it until February 2016. [[14.00 hours]] If the House gets the law - here I've written some legislative time, but I won't bother you. I just promise you we'll do everything we can to keep you from approving it. However, the proposal provides for individual entrepreneurs accepting liquidity to be applied for. - I hear we're supposed to be done at 2:00. Since this speech, although not long, will take me about 35 minutes, I am prepared to respect that I will be interrupted and continue next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-013-999.u3	I was just about to do that, Mr President. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, I am interrupting the merged debate of the Houses of Presses 513 and 514, paragraphs 31 and 32. I thank President Kalousek and interrupt the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-013-999.u4	Mr Vice-President, to be precise, you should interrupt the merged debate by Friday, 10 July, at 9 o'clock. This is what we agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-013-999.u5	Okay. I interrupt the merged debate on paragraphs 31 and 32 by Friday 10 July 9 in the morning and interrupt the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 7 July 2015. Have a good trip home and have a nice weekend.
