ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u1	224. Amendment of the Government's Resolution of 20 October 2014 850, on the proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2015 and 2016 with a view to 2017 /house print 664/ The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your inclusion, ladies and gentlemen. The Government's amendment to that resolution concerns an increase in the number of members of the Ministry of Defence Ministry's Ministry of Defence reserved to NATO Rapid Response Force Alliance Alert System in 2016. By proposing an increase in the number of persons included in the NRF in 2016, we respond to the needs of the reformed NRF concept, which is one of the measures strengthening NATO's defence capabilities in the context of a worsening security situation. The new concept, which will take effect on 1 January next year, will bring about a change in the composition and size of the NRF and a modification of the level and duration of the alert for deployment in the operation, including the creation of forces of a very high alert, called VJTF. All of this, among other things, increases the demands on the size of national contributions. The proposal to amend the above-mentioned Government resolution concerns point 1/10 and is an increase in the number of persons selected by the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic to the NRF in 2016 from initially approved 452 to 816 persons. Even if this is a significant increase in our contribution compared to this year, when we set up a total of 1500 people into the NRF, it is not dramatic. The material was processed in close cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to achieve compliance between security commitments, priorities and ambitions of foreign policy of the Czech Republic and its military capabilities and possibilities. In the event of a decision to deploy the NRF, the necessary funds will be secured outside the Ministry of Defence's budget in accordance with the Government Resolution of 22 October 2007. Thank you and I recommend The Chamber of Deputies shall approve the material submitted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek had the opportunity to speak, but unfortunately he is excused. The resolution of the Defence Committee was delivered as House Press 664/1. I now ask the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, esteemed members of the government. I would like to begin by pointing out that while I have the opportunity as rapporteur to exhibate here, I will not do so because I do not want to waste your time. On the contrary, I would like to stress that here I represent the Defence Committee, the work of the entire Defence Committee for two years, when this standard also complements the entire complex of defence legislation, which the Defence Committee has worked really honestly, for which I would like to thank my fellow Members in the Committee. Now for your own intelligence report. I thank the Minister for basically explaining the whole issue and the justification for the amendment of the Government resolution of 20 October 2014. I will just add that, as far as legal aspects are concerned, the proposed mandate is in accordance with both international and national law. The details are given in section K. Legal aspects of the deployment of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence to foreign operations in the proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence of Foreign Operations in 2015 and 2016 with a view to 2017. In the case of a decision on the deployment of the NRF, funds will be provided outside the Ministry of Defence's budget in accordance with the Government Resolution of 22 October 2007. Finally, the proposed proposal is in line with the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in NATO in accordance with the security strategy of the Czech Republic, the defence strategy of the Czech Republic and foreign policy priorities of the Czech Republic. It is submitted following a decision to significantly strengthen the NRF forces decided by NATO Member States in June 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, which was the first to be heard by Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Exhibition and wasting our time here said a colleague. I do not know how my colleague Chalupa, through you, Mr Vice-President, but I think that all of us who have read this material are aware of the seriousness of this step, the weight of this step. We send more than 360 people abroad. [[more]] And wasting time? I think we're wasting our time here on nonsense other than the missions I consider to be very important press. Therefore, just before the end of the year, this House is requested to change its mandate to the force and resources for 2016, with effect from 1 January 2016. The change concerns the forces of NATO's rapid response, in which our contribution should be increased by more than, as I said, 360 people. I understand that this is a request from the North Atlantic Alliance, and I am convinced, like my colleagues from the ODS, that it is right to comply with it. This means that this increase in the number for the NRF has the support of me and the support of the civil democrats. After all, I would like to remind you that it was the citizens' Democrats who always held that it was better against threats and evil to intervene outside our borders than in our home. And developments in recent years have been quite right about this approach. However, I will take the liberty of two sets of comments. One line of comments is on the process and the other line of comments is on the legislative framework. The first concerns that such important material, not the material on which we waste our time, is presented at the last possible moment. There has been no mention of why this is the case from either the Minister or the rapporteur here on this subject. There was no excuse for all of us why that was so. I wouldn't say that... I wouldn't say anything, and the Minister knows that if it was an immediate request, to which it is necessary to respond flexibly. That is not the case, of course. And you should have mentioned it here. It is easy to prove that this material has been prepared since the beginning of summer and went into the inter-ministerial commentary procedure on 11 September this year. September 11th of this year! He passed without any further comments and was approved by the government on 2 November. But we get it on the table in mid-December. If there were no unnecessary delays, we could have discussed this document a month, a month and a half ago, which would certainly have been more dignified to us and especially to our army, and it would have been fair. We're actually sitting on a permanent third week, and we're getting it here on the last day, the last minute of our meeting to be concluded, and we have an emergency meeting on Tuesday. What bothers me is that in the last two years, it's nothing unusual, and a colleague here is lucky to have it that way. No, my colleague, through the Vice-President, that is not how this is going to work. It can't be happening! We are sending people abroad, where they are putting their lives for the Czech Republic. You guys didn't bother to have an A-list in here today, respectable members of the government coalition! Do you realize that? Do you realise that the decision on this press depends on the voices of the opposition? The ODS will give them to you. But I refuse to let anyone turn this into a rip-off calendar. Last year was even an effort to discuss this point again at the last minute during one autumn week. That's not a good card for the guys who told us they were gonna work and that we were a loser. My second point concerns the accompanying resolution approved by this House last 31 October 2015 on the Government's proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2015 and 2016 with a view to 2017. [[2014]] It is resolution 497, which says: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Constitutional Legal Committee, in cooperation with the Legislative Council of the Government, to assess whether the legal framework for the approval of the Czech Armed Forces abroad is sufficient by the government and Parliament of the Czech Republic in view of the need for greater flexibility and, where appropriate, to propose such changes to this procedure, which will meet the current needs. [[Noise in the hall.]] Just in time for this resolution to come about. I think you all remember, though. In my opinion and other colleagues, who are also supported by an analysis of the Parliamentary Institute of October 2014 concerning the flat-rate consent of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to the transmission of armed forces, the current procedure is at the edge of the Constitution and does not meet the current flexibility requirements. This applies not only to the request for approval of the deployment of forces without knowledge of the specific place of action and mission, but also to the so-called forces of the very rapid response of the North Atlantic Alliance. These are supposed to be an important tool for NATO and should be able to go into action within 48 hours. Which is not a sufficient time frame for approving their broadcasts, as the Constitution quite strictly states. We all know that, we're all... or most of us supported my resolution, which is over a year old. Nothing happened. The purpose of the above accompanying resolution was therefore to initiate a debate and prepare a change so that the Czech Republic could meet its commitments without a problem and that the government could behave more flexibly. I regret to say, ladies and gentlemen, that almost nothing has happened. Were it not for several Members of the Constitutional and Defence Committee to whom I thank for this, that, together with me, they constantly asked the Constitutional Committee to deal with the situation. At least we started discussing possible solutions at the end of the summer. So if this hadn't happened, it would have slept through the winter's sleep. [[13.10 hours]] I'm surprised it doesn't matter to the Ministry of Defense or the Government - once again, the Minister is not here without Dienstbier's job. He is angry with me when I say that the Minister is out of work, but in that resolution was also the role of the Legislative Council of the Government, which he chaires. To address this issue by the Legislative Council of the Government. Where is he? How come he didn't do anything? Does this guy ever work? Does he ever go to the Chamber of Deputies? [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Is he dealing with anything other than his media image? How is it possible - and is not even the Prime Minister here to ask him how it is possible that members of his government do not comply with the resolution adopted by the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament? How is it that no one checks that they're not being alarmed and says, "You guys had a job here that you didn't do? The year he met with the year and we're back in the same situation as we were here in the month of October. So I would really like the executives' representatives to be more active on this matter. Next year we should approve the proposal to deploy our troops in foreign operations for 2017 and 2018 with a view to 2019. I would hate for some well-intentioned deployment proposals to go there because of doubts about their compliance with the rule of law, if that makes us perceived as incalculable allies. There's still time for debate and possible change, but we're running out of time. I would also like to thank the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee Tejc for calling the subcommittee on the first or second week of January and the meeting on this issue. Thank you for the fact that when Minister Dienstbier, his party colleague, no longer fulfills his duties, at least he has complied with our lamentations and listened to them by the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee. I thank him through the Vice-President for the fact that at least someone here wants to work. I wonder, and I asked for this minister, respectively. His deputy, when the point was discussed, to get information about what happened at the DOD, again what happened at the DOD, that we were getting this document on the table here with the same delay as last year, and so far I didn't get an answer. These demands, please nicely, emerged from the Wales Summit, which was last July. That's what we responded to with one posting. Now we're adjusting the numbers. And about what the numbers, the numbers to which they're going to increase, have been known to do at the Department of Defense since May this year. Okay, it got into the process on 9/11 this year. But it's the end of December. Let us not really leave our army to the last moment in suspense about whether there will be 101 hands here today that will raise their hands for this resolution. For the ODS club, dear members of the government coalition, I say we help you and you get our votes. But it is not possible to approach our troops abroad in this amateur manner, where they defend our freedoms, our freedoms and represent the Czech Republic. That's shameful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u7	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Mr Miroslav Kalousek, President of the TOP 09 with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to add briefly what Mrs Černochová has already said exactly. The degree of your irresponsibleness towards the country you represent in your constitutional positions is simply incredible. You have zero tolerance to the amendments of some opponents, let them present what they submit. Even if they tabled an amendment that would argue that it is Friday 13.14 today, you will vote against it. [[current time]] Only when this amendment falls in the Senate or is presented by another coalition member will you be willing to support it. You just have zero tolerance. Please. It's your political style. We're okay with it. And if we do the same as you do, and we have zero tolerance for all of your suggestions, even those we agree with, you're just gonna make a world embarrassment today because you weren't able to make 101 come to work. Not only will you leave this point at the last minute, the gallows deadline, but you will forget it with forgiveness in the appropriate number that would at least guarantee the government that its own MPs will vote it out in this gallows term. The TOP 09 will also support this. Not because we want to keep you from embarrassing. I want to point out that you've already done this. But we want to save her from the shame of her own country, to which you, for your irresponsibleness, will throw her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u10	I would like to respond to the words of the previous speaker with the fact that he is wrong again, because at the last meeting of the House two defence laws were approved, or laws in the field of defence legislation, the defence law and the Act on the service of soldiers in reserve, where we approved the amendments of the opposition to Mrs Černochová. So he's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Radek Vondráček is now making a point of fact. [[Someone reporting from the right with priority rights.]] A point of fact, Mr. Ambassador, has priority. Unfortunately, the Member was registered earlier. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u12	Thank you. A brief factual point of view. Mr Kalousek committed gross untruth when he spoke of zero tolerance to the amendments. If you would look at statistics, for example, on the Constitutional Legal Committee, how many times we have gone to meet opposition Members... I was thinking of Mr Kalousek's significant amendment to the register of treaties, where we accepted his removal from the law of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, the Supreme Audit Office and other institutions. Don't tell me we have zero tolerance for substantive and reasonable proposals. Maybe if we put some statistics together, it would be useless work, but if we did statistics on how opposition proposals were accepted in past periods, when they were in the government coalition, we might have won it on points. [[unintelligible]] So I would just like to turn to this briefly. I'm done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u13	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Gabal. After him, Mrs Černochová. She's downloading her point of fact. Thank you. So please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u14	Thank you, and I'm sorry I didn't sign up electronically. Although I will agree to some extent with the opposition's reservations that we are discussing this at the last minute, and I will come back to that, I do not like the fact that it seems to me that an unhealthy atmosphere from the EET is being transmitted to defence issues. And I would just like to remind you what has already been said that we have adopted important defence laws without a single vote against whether or not I am mistaken. I just want to say one thing here and fix some inaccuracies. First of all, we are talking about increasing the power of a super-fast response. They were appointed and now the Alliance wants to raise them, which means we responded immediately after Wales. Now we're going to the next round. The problem for all those who are somehow not orienting in this is that those forces are available to the Alliance military commander and decide on their deployment in terms of space, time and duration, which are key parameters for what Parliament has to discuss, that is, we need to look for some mechanism to institutionally treat or refine and accelerate this. That's what we're looking for. My colleague Tejc will probably talk. I think we met three times this year, where we discussed it right in the beginning. At the third meeting was a representative of the Legislative Council of the Government, not that it wasn't. He was. That's the second inaccuracy. And the third. It's at the last minute, but I hope the Ministry has used that time to thoroughly prepare the reality of the operational deployment of those forces, because if we approve it and say yes, we're ready, then the next day, those forces must be operationally available. I believe that the time taken by the Ministry and taken by the government was used to really be able to deliver what we commit to. And again, it's not customary for a defense committee to have a dialogue like this. [[Time warning]] And the committee discussed the deployment or the provision of forces on time. I believe the House will give its opinion on the defence committee's position, and I believe that the situation around this debate will calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u15	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, your time is really up. With another factual remark, Mrs Černochová. Sorry, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u16	Thank you. First of all, my colleague Gabal wasn't on the defense committee where it was discussed. So I'm fascinated that he's here saying how it was discussed in time or not in time. It was discussed a week ago. It was an extraordinary committee, once again whistled at the last minute to sign, I signed it myself because I'm aware that this army needs it. So what's the time? Is the extraordinary committee, once again on missions, something you want to brag about here, members of the government coalition? Yes, a representative of the Government's Legislative Council was at that meeting in the summer, at the end of the summer, and his opinion was 180 degrees elsewhere than the opinion of the second master who was sitting there for the Ministry of Defence! There were enough of us to confirm that I wasn't making this up! That there were two representatives of a government coalition sitting there and one claimed it's okay, the other claimed it's not okay! So you guys are gonna make a deal? So perhaps someone will come forward with a proposal on which a consensus will really be discussed professionally with constitutional lawyers, and not that we will be the legislative initiative of all of us here to push for such fundamental changes to the Constitution. Are you serious? And what Ivan Gabal said first. Of course, I know what kind of power this is! I've even told you where it came from. But the fact that we are to increase the number to 840, through Vice-President Ivan Gabal, has been known to do so at the Ministry of Defence since April 2016. Excuse me, 2015.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Mr rapporteur, I am very sorry, Mr Leo Luzar is with a point of fact before you. Although I love you, I have to follow the order of procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I hope you like me, too. [[- Absolutely.]] Thank you. There have been words of shame, international shame. I want to ask: Did you ask the citizens of this country whether they agree to make their soldiers, fast, super-fast or extra-speed deployment under some crazy NATO generals who bomb Libya, who send soldiers without thinking about attacking terrorists and then giving them weapons, subject to these orders? Have you asked the citizens about this? If you asked them, you would know that these citizens disagree to serve these interests. And ask them about it. Ask them how they view the European Union's ability to prepare a Schengen border security programme in six months' time. Where are the rapid and super-fast military reinforcements or helping to defend Europe? No, we're gonna form a unit, we're gonna strengthen it by 400-- if I picked up that number correctly-- soldiers, and we're sending them under NATO command to operate in the world. Meanwhile, Europe is in danger! Think about your citizens, too, and ask them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u19	Thank you, honourable Member. Honestly, after his words, that love has passed a little. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you, there is no shame in this. The army of the Czech Republic has a very good name in NATO, so we will not discuss this here. Where do we get the courage? Well, we're taking it out of the mandate we got in the election. And we represent a certain part of the public that gave us a mandate to deal with the things that we're dealing with here. Maybe it's gonna be wrong, maybe it's gonna be okay, but it's gonna show up, and people are gonna decide again whether they're gonna choose the representation that suits or doesn't suit them. That's two. As for what was said here, I'm responding to my colleague, Černochová. You all got the press to meet. That means explaining things to you again, that's really an exhibition. Any of the Members may come to the Defence Committee and attend these meetings. Who's interested? So we discussed this very thoroughly on the defense committee. I'm not saying it's always fast, but it's thorough. Because my colleague is not the only one on the committee who is interested in the Czech Army being okay. So whoever wants to get to know it. And what's going on here is supposed to take place on the committees! And that's where it's happening! We're wasting time here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u21	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. With a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u22	Mr Chalupa is said to be an expert in defence in the ANO 2011 movement. And it seems normal to him and tells all of us who are not members of the Defence Committee that it is normal to discuss sending troops abroad at lunch break of the Chamber of Deputies' day. Chairman Sklenák is very angry when I say chaos reigns here. What other than chaos and inability to discuss in time such a key document is that it is at lunch break? That's really dignified. And he says to the rest of us, "Why didn't you come?" Well, because the committees are on the committee week. You know, you've been working on it since April, Mrs Černochová said. You come at lunch break on December 11th or 10th, and you look like... I don't know if you had those T-shirts. Let us work! Next time, spray it, we'll start working, maybe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u23	Mr Jeroným Tejc is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u24	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am pleased that I have learned patience and have not been eager to meet that line of colleagues with a factual remark. And I allow myself to respond to a few things. I will not comment on the number, the date and other things related to this press. I am going to vote on this, and I think that there is no need for each of us to share our position on missions right now. Because we would have been here for a long time, and it probably wouldn't have changed the decision. However, I would like to reassure Mrs Černochová and all of you in the sense that, not only in my opinion, we are not behind the edge of the Constitution, although I agree with what has been said that this matter may be called into question when our troops would actually be deployed in a sharp fight. Let's hope there's no such thing. And I would like to say that we are doing our utmost to do so with the Ministry of Defence, with Deputy Minister Landovský, in order to achieve a very quick version of the Constitution, which will not be questionable, which will be clear, but above all, which will allow the Chamber of Deputies to remain a sovereign over who decides to send troops abroad. It may simply be a dispute today that, while we are voting on other missions, we are voting on not only how many soldiers, but where it will be sent if we include soldiers in special forces, whether NATO or the European Union. We know how many, what group we know, but we're not going to decide the particular place. That is why, in our view, it is appropriate for us, for example, to go the way in which the government decides. However, even a minority of the House will be able to convene the House in a very short time on this matter, and it will decide definitively whether or not the government's decision will apply. That means we're not moving to the government on this matter. So I would like to say that, on 13 January, a subcommittee meeting will take place. Members of the subcommittee from all sides and, of course, representatives of the Defence Committee and representatives of the senators are already invited to it. So in this sense, I think that we will certainly be able to agree on a text that could be part of the nearest amendment to the Constitution so that there is no questioning. And I want to promise that we will do our utmost to make it spring of next year, and so we were able to approve the proposal during this parliamentary term. However, if this has lasted in the past, and I think that no one questioned it even in the past right-wing government, the problem is not so serious that we should be more serious about it or worry about it today, and we need to prepare for the amendment of the Constitution. And allow me to respond very briefly to President Kalousek. Unfortunately, I have a very good memory for you, through Mr President Kalousek. I remember how zero tolerance worked here. Yes, she was here. Our opposition bills have often not been discussed longer than at first reading. It rarely happened that any other proposal succeeded. [[13.30 hours]] But most of all, I remember voting against the will of the opposition here about bringing together 13 bills that had little to do with each other, and this block of proposals, which was supposed to be approved here, was voted after the Members had the right to speak only twice ten minutes. Nothing like this is happening right now. Similarly, it is not the case that today, for example, the President of the House has proposed to discuss the laws of the EET in a state of legislative emergency, because we would all like this proposal to apply in the coalition as of 1 January. There's no such thing. And I remember when you were here yesterday or the day before yesterday talking about how some ministers weren't prepared for a meeting, which I'm sure you have the right to this opinion, how often they weren't just prepared for a meeting, unfortunately, ministers of your governments. Unfortunately, I must say that these were, for example, the Minister of Culture Hanáková or Minister Parkanová, both for the party you are now representing. I'm sorry, but I have a good memory, and I don't think it's just me, and it's something that needs to be said here sometimes, because I think we can take your instruction very far after these words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u25	With a factual remark, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u26	So, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I respond to my previous speaker's speech and I have only two comments for my colleague. Tejka through the Vice-President. The first is personal and human. Member Tejc is really optimistic when he tells us that all members of the government coalition want the EET Act on 1 January. I assure you, that is simply not the case, but I understand coalition agreements and I understand how government proposals are promoted. I still remember. Mr Tejc, my honored opponent and chairman of the ČSSD club in the last parliamentary term, mentioned how we acted and how we resisted their obstructions. I don't want to say plus or minus, they attacked, we fought back. But what do I have to say? That it was subject to examination by the Constitutional Court. That's what's important to say. It ended up in the Constitutional Court, it was examined by the Constitutional Court, and those laws were not abolished. Well, that's very important, too. I often say that when I hand out the wounds that I have to accept them, here we had a bit of the opposite, our dispute about whether the procedure was constitutional or not, eventually the one who has to make the decisions, and that is the Constitutional Court in Brno. Otherwise, I agree, that's what we did, that's how we fought back, that's how we used this method, and the result was that we were successful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u27	Thank you to President Stanjur. With a point of fact, Mr Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u28	It's my last word on the past, I think, but just to be clear. The Constitutional Court stated in its finding, which is traceable, that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure Act, that the procedure was not correct, but that such a breach did not recognise the intensity which would lead to the abolition of the 13 proposals. But in the case of a finding that involved the misuse of the state of legislative emergency, there was an annulment of those specific laws, I suspect it was the law on building savings. So it is not that the Constitutional Court was right in my opinion at the time, only the intensity in the case of some proposals was not such. But let's leave that to historians and, above all, constitutional lawyers. I do not question the legitimacy of obstruction, but I think it is possible to overcome it, and I think we have also learned our lesson. I learned from you at the time of the opposition, and I think it's time for us to overcome you in your obstructions. And believe me, it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u29	So far, this has been the last one entered into the general debate. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate, I am asking about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. The Minister is interested. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only try telegraphically to respond to perhaps two basic points that have been raised here in this debate. First of all, it's a legal framework. As far as the legal framework is concerned, all Member States, in response to the Welsh introduction or, say, the introduction to the position of VJTF, are now trying to implement this fairly complexly into their legal systems. So we're not in any kind of emergency situation or any kind of allergenic regime where the only ones who don't know exactly how to deal with it would be. I would like to say that the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which has been mentioned here, sets out the specific addressee of the task, and this is the constitutionally-legal committee in cooperation with the Legislative Council of the Government. The representatives of the Ministry of Defence contacted the Government's Legislative Council on their own initiative in the spring of this year and subsequently participated in the meetings of the Sub-Committee on the Constitution and, following these negotiations, we are processing our own analysis of the relevant article of the Constitution, Article 43, which is intended to assess whether or not its current wording corresponds to the needs of practice. This analysis will be provided to Members of the Defence Committee by 10 January next year. On the other issue, it concerns the deadline. We have, before the vote on this point, an approved and valid mandate for the deployment of 456 soldiers for the purposes of the NRF. The current demand to increase the number of soldiers to 816 for 2016 was during the second half of the year, and I would like to point out, clarified, perhaps I should have said so in the introductory words, but I did not want to be too long, during the second half of the year this requirement was specified in response to the deteriorating security environment in Europe and following the clarification of NATO requirements and also the possibilities of our army. I would like to stress that Trident Juncture's certification exercise was underway, which greatly affected development and where it was waiting for the result of this exercise to determine whether we can declare readiness. And I'm responding to the moment that was also said here, whether we're ready. So yes, if we're talking about this right now as a kind of demand or readiness, it's a reality, and we're able to declare the readiness of these units to the NRF structures in 2016. NATO's decision to change the level of alert for deployment in the operation, including the creation of forces of a very rapid response, also had an impact. I don't want to talk about it here much longer. Some of the data that was said here is valid. Optically, it looks like the material was running a little late. The reality is that it was still expected in NATO in November, exactly how the results of the exercise will be achieved, which was a SOATU exercise, or it was helicopters and our availability to provide this capacity within the special forces. In the end, it was decided that we were capable, and that was why it changed at the last minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u31	I thank the Minister for his final word. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I am opening a detailed debate. Who is reporting for a detailed debate? If no one... The rapporteur? Please, rapporteur. I beg you, rapporteur, to refer to the resolution you tabled in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to read the motion for a resolution of the Defence Committee of the 26th meeting of 9 December 2015 on the amendment of the Government resolution of 20 October 2014, No. 850, on the proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2015 and 2016 with a view to 2017, House print No. 664. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Deputy Colonel General Staff Ing. Štefan Muránský, Deputy Head of Legal JUDr. Alena Netolická and intelligence report by Mr . Bohuslav Chalupa and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic amends the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of 31 October 2014 No. 496, the proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2015 and 2016 with a view to 2017 so that in point I/10, the number "452' is replaced by "816'. Just for refills. The resolution of the Defence Committee contains three additional points, which do not concern the draft resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. In conclusion and outside the resolution to all those who will not be twenty-two, I wish a peaceful and happy holiday and all good for the new year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u33	It's not gonna be a happy holiday yet. We still have Mrs. Jana Černochová registered. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u34	Just, Mr. Vice-President, more for the tapestry. When my colleague Chalupa here read the committee's resolution, there was the fact that at first we acted at 8.30 a.m., we really were unable to communicate in half an hour, so it was interrupted, it was afternoon, or at lunchtime, as President Stanjura rightly said here, and in the meantime the generals switched. Colonel Muránský sat with us in the morning. General Baloun sat with us at noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-18-ps2013-036-12-001-224.u35	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. If no one else is reporting, I will conclude a detailed debate. Do I ask the final words? Not interested. We will therefore vote on the resolution, as proposed by the rapporteur. In order to adopt a resolution on the consent of sending the armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the territory of the Czech Republic, the consent of an absolute majority of all Members is required in accordance with Rule 39 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Constitution. Please set the necessary number of votes to 101 - which has already happened. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the resolution of the Defence Committee, as proposed by the rapporteur, Bohuslav Chalupa. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 340 voting. 152 Members and Members are registered, for 128, against 23. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. I'm done with this point. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Before we conclude this meeting, I now propose to vote on the elimination of the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 341 voting. 153 Members and Members are registered, for 121, against 16. The motion was accepted. I'm done with the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a nice weekend.
