ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and on the amendment of certain related laws (budgetary rules), as amended, and some other laws /house print 546/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the draft amendment to the budgetary rules. The draft law presented contains, in particular, provisions extending the list of Treasury entities and the provisions relating to this extension. An adjustment is also proposed to receive loans from international financial institutions, in particular from the European Investment Bank and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe. The Ministry of Finance for the Czech Republic is also proposed to shorten the transitional period for the transfer of state contribution funds to the accounts of the subordinate Treasury by 15 months. The proposed amendment to the budgetary rules also contains some other changes, such as the abolition of the obligation to settle the subsidy in full for the reimbursement of expenditure and, where appropriate, the costs which the beneficiary has paid from its own resources before it is granted. According to the proposal, all accounts subordinate to the Treasury are to be held by the Railway Infrastructure Administration, health insurance companies and associations of health insurance companies, subjecting those accounts to the Treasury in principle within nine months of the entry into force of the Act. The amendment of the Act on the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic and the amendment of the Act on Departmental, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Companies is also proposed in connection with the submission of the health insurance account to the Treasury. The proposal also contains an amendment to the Act on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. It is essential to establish the obligation to settle certain subsidies granted to this fund from the state budget. The Ministry of Finance expects from the proposed submission of the above-mentioned accounts to the Treasury the possibility of centralization of additional CZK 28 billion of free liquidity resulting from public funds, which would represent an annual savings on the interest costs of state debt in hundreds of millions to billions of crowns depending on the evolution of the Czech government bond yield and the situation on global financial markets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u3	I thank you, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Roman Kubíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the bill is, in particular, the involvement of other available funds within the aggregate accounts of the Treasury led by the Czech National Bank, which should lead to a rationalization of the management of State funds and significant savings of interest costs in the long term. Ensuring this goal is newly proposed to be anchored in the Budgetary Rules Act, so that the General Health Insurance Corporation, other health insurance companies and associations of health insurance companies, as well as public research institutions, the Railway Infrastructure Administration submitted their accounts to the Treasury and therefore led them only to the CNB. The territorial authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of the cohesion regions must currently have the accounts established by the State Administration for receiving subsidies and return financial assistance from the State budget, or state funds and national fund. It is proposed that all funds made available from the State budget, state funds and national funds, as the case may be, be accepted for these accounts. The subordinated Treasury would also be the money they deposit or accept on their own voluntarily. A similar change concerns public universities. In the case of contribution organisations established by the organisational units of the State which have in accordance with Act No. 501/2012 Coll., Article 1 (3), the obligation to transfer all their funds to the accounts of the subordinate Treasury to the Czech National Bank until 31 December 2017 is proposed to shorten this period so that the aforementioned entities have to comply with this obligation by 30 September 2016. Furthermore, the amendment also regulates other measures that should lead to more efficient planning of Treasury cash flows and the possibility of more flexible use of loans from international financial institutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u5	Thank you and I am opening up a general debate in which I have Mr Vilímec signed up. Mr Kalousek has the right of priority, he will not use it. I will therefore ask Mr Vilímec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the budgetary rules, so-called big budgetary rules, at first glance, looks like a technical standard, but it's not. koneckonců all, we have also heard from both the petitioner and the rapporteur how significant a change this standard would be, because, above all, in addition to some more technical parts, it extends the scope of the entities and their funds, which would be subordinated to the Treasury. This means that they would have to transfer their accounts under the Czech National Bank. I remember when discussing the first expansion of the Treasury in 2012, and the debate was very thorough, and at that time it was very careful that the savings that would potentially arise on the part of the state budget associated with the use of the funds of those foreign entities should not lead to any negative effects on the other hand. At its time, and I know that it was also within this amendment, when it was discussed at the level of the Ministry of Finance, it was proposed that municipalities and regions should also transfer all funds within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. It was suggested that all funds be transferred by both scientific and research institutions and public universities. It's restricted now. Of course, it must be seriously weighed so that this does not lead to any negative effects on the part of these entities whose funds would be partly or in full subordinated to the Treasury. It is a natural effort by the Ministry of Finance, whether it was the Minister or the Minister, to use these funds and, in principle, to reduce the necessary volume of government bonds that are issued or had to issue to cover state debt. A year ago, such a political aspect was added to show that, despite deficit management, government debt did not grow because it was used at the time when the reserves of funds generated under budgetary rules ran out, so at that point the funds of foreign entities began to be used in the short term in principle. The risk to this behaviour and this proposal is the real impact on the commercial banking sector, which otherwise manages accounts of other clients than those linked to the state budget. This financial and political temptation of the state is great in this respect and I am concerned that, in principle, the former Czechoslovak State Bank, which was also not only an issue bank, should not emerge from the Czech National Bank, but was a market regulator before November 1989, but basically all the state companies and all the institutions had to have accounts with the Czech National Bank. What about this... Accounts at the Czechoslovak State Bank. So what this amendment extends, in addition to some legislative clarification, is a circle of funds linked to the Treasury, not only in the case of funds such as SŽDC and the like, but in the case of health insurance companies, which I think was the subject of a big debate and is the subject of quite a big criticism from health insurance companies. It is also a question of whether the delay that was hard to bear three or four years ago, the connection of the contribution organizations to the Treasury's accounts, the delay of five years, whether it should be reduced to three years. I think we're sending out a pretty negative signal about the unpredictability of the state, because I remember that's when the five-year delay came from the Senate, and the House accepted it. I confess, I don't want to do this - because it's such an expert debate, but she has to do it because the consequences of this law can be very dangerous. I admit that, especially for those health insurance companies in the field, the corporate expansion of the subordinated funds under the Treasury is highly debatable. They can really feel negative about this. It should be noted that at the time of submission to the Treasury, these entities are actually losing their right to interest, which in the case of health insurance companies is about CZK 100 million. Although the state will subsidize or compensate, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, this will bring about cost at state level. When I read it, because the position of the Union of Employment Unions has also been added to me, the Union of Employers also, of course, rejects the Union of Employment Unions very strictly in order for changes to the budgetary rules to apply to health insurance companies as well. I think that's the biggest discussion. This is logically justified by the fact that, in the case of health insurance, it is public finances, not state finances linked to the state budget. It is the means that I quote from this point of view of the Union of Employers, which entrusts health insurance companies to insured persons. Moreover, let us also note that not all health insurance accounts are related to the implementation of health insurance. This should also be noted. The reduction of these interest income could have a negative impact of about CZK 100 million each year on the creation of, for example, preventive programmes for insured persons. There would certainly be obstacles to the use of some banking instruments by insurance clients. Because it is known that the Czech National Bank does not actually issue credit cards and so on. Just trying to include all health insurance accounts under the Treasury, I'm afraid, could not only have an unfortunate impact on the insurance companies themselves, but also on clients. And that needs to be realized. Similarly, the shortening of the initial period of compulsory inclusion of the State contribution account under the Treasury also has its risks. The state is sending out a bad signal, among other things, which I've already put into the banking sphere, with the fact that it's acting absolutely unpredictable. The banks expected to manage the State's contribution accounts until 31 December 2017. Suddenly, the state comes and shifts this thing a year or a year and a half closer. I do not want to, of course, think that this debate must be held, a comprehensive debate on the Committee on Budgets in particular. Even since this applies to health insurance companies, the debate should, I am neither a member of the Committee on Budgets nor a member of the Committee on Health, also be conducted in the Committee on Health. Because it's just a huge hit on the functioning of health insurance. So I will not now propose rejection at first reading, but I certainly assume that the debate will be conducted, thoroughly, not only in general terms, because we are actually interfering with the functioning and activities of these entities. I believe that, above all, the members of the Committee on Budgets are aware of this, I assume that the amendments will also be tabled at second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u7	Thank you and the other participants in the debate are Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u8	Thank you. I will make this extremely short, because Mr Vilímec said about 80 percent of what I wanted to say. I will only enrich it with a personal memory and, in particular, I will turn to my colleagues from social democracy, whom we were passionately discussing three years ago. It was 2012 and I was finishing the technical preparation of the State Treasury project. I am just stressing here, or I would like to respond to my colleague Vilímca, that these accounts are in the Czech National Bank not because banking services are centralized, but because the Czech National Bank is running a state treasury payment service. [[17.40 hours]] I had two options at the time either to create the payment service at the Ministry of Finance or to use the existing infrastructure at the Czech National Bank. I used the infrastructure at the Czech National Bank. It worked out so much cheaper, but it might as well be at the Treasury. Many countries do, for example. the neighbouring Slovakia. The law or the amendment to the Budgetary Rules Act was approved by legislation so that it applied to 1. 1. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the general budget of the Union for the years 2014-2020. 1. 2013 start the cash register, which also allows better management of the debt service. Now I will not continue to develop by how much Minister Babiš likes and often talks about reducing state debt. This cannot be about reducing net debt, because as long as budgets are deficit, net debt is growing, but of course it is possible to dissolve part of the reserves and use better cash flow thanks to the Treasury, which is, of course, a project where it has not taken any positive step so far. He only uses the steps of his predecessors. I'm glad, but he hasn't done anything to make it better. This is a pretty logical step where he wants to continue his journey, and the health insurance companies are there. I'm, I admit, without torture, that's what every finance minister wants, and I wanted as much of it as possible. I wanted to have municipalities and regions and health insurance companies there, and now at expert seminars and on individual committees I was arguing with you and fighting and arguing and convincing you and somewhere I didn't convince you, somewhere you pushed me over, so in municipalities and regions, there I was even confronted with the fact that it was not constitutionally conformal, you pushed me over at universities, you pushed me over in hospitals that would get into a disadvantageous competitive situation with private hospitals, you pushed me over in a whole series of things. But I guess you did the right thing. Finally, the amendment was approved across the Chamber of Deputies. I remember that, in the end, I was also supported by the opposition, social democracy, and I thank you for that today. One of the most complicated discussions was with health insurance companies. I'm sure you won't be surprised that my proposal was very displeased with my party colleague, Minister of Health doc. Heger, he certainly can't like the Minister of Health right now, no matter what political side. A very lazy compromise was concluded with the five-year delay. And it was closed, in particular, on the basis of the pressure of social democracy. I remember it well. Social democracy made it clear that if it hadn't been there for at least five years, it simply couldn't support it and wouldn't agree with it. We can find it in open sources. And I cared so much about supporting the opposition that I nodded to it. What did the Treasury Secretary do to you now that suddenly you can imagine it much sooner? This is in a very surprising way and in a way that these health insurance companies must be damaged and most likely will damage the Czech banking sector too, because in that balance sheet there is simply planned with the time that the Czech legislation said it was postponed. All of a sudden, it doesn't go away. That's not how you do it! You don't do that. As much as I fought for it back then, and I wanted to have it as soon as possible, I'll admit that if I didn't confess, then you'll remember it, so now I just insist that the rules don't change during the game. Because when we said how long it's been postponed, we should keep it that way, because otherwise maybe... Yes, the state will manage the debt service a little more efficiently, we'll make some small savings, but we'll do a lot of damage next door. And I announce the same will in second reading. As much as I understand the Minister. I had the same ambition. But it is precisely because the discussion has taken place, precisely because we have made it clear to the world, both to the health insurance companies and to the banking sector, when it has, can and must count on it, so I am convinced that we must not change it, because we would not be fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u9	Thank you, that was Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Before we go any further, allow me to read the apology that came to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. She apologizes for the next meeting within 19 o'clock, Mrs Markéta Adamová. Mr Petr Bendl's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'm not a macro-economic, I'm honest about it here, but I understand this bill by trying to withdraw funds from the market, which the state is able to supervise, to withdraw them to the Czech National Bank. This means that the free funds that banks normally use to lend and trade on the market are reduced over time. In addition to touching the funds provided by the State, this bill says that the State wants to even touch on funds that are not its own, it merely manages them, i.e. When they order citizens to pay their health insurance and I don't know what other insurance, the State wants to impose on those who manage these funds to deposit them into an account that he himself will say, regardless of how many times they are entities that need to be published by the administration, the State doesn't fix them because it's not just the General Health Insurance Company, but it's other health insurance companies that have their rules, etc. I think it's a very serious intervention in the economy at all. The Minister of Finance is an entrepreneur himself, and I think he must know that changing the rules of the game during the match is always difficult. The moment I take some credit and the state changes my terms, then I can't be mad at that state. And the YES movement itself said that the state should function as a company. I think that predictability in this respect should be clear and clear; it should not move with the term, just as it is considered whether the State should touch funds that do not belong to it. Nor would I suggest rejection at first reading, but please have the Minister of Finance - I am done - or the Ministry of Finance have presented the really documented effects of this proposal on the economy of this state, because it will certainly not be a simple and cheap matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u11	Mr. Ambassador, I'm tolerance alone. This was the last application for a general debate. Is it still in the debate, Mr rapporteur, or is it the final word? In the debate, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I dare suggest shortening the time between first and second reading to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u13	Okay, yes. Proposition. Anyone else in the debate? If not, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary, if you want to use the final word? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u14	Thank you. I'm just saying a few words about the nature of the money. Well, of course, the question is whether the funds that we created here, SŽDC, SFDI, are funds that often show large balances, and that's money that comes from the state budget that didn't have time to consume those funds, and they're essentially placing them in some way. And, of course, for health insurance companies, the balances on the accounts are also huge, and these are, of course, health insurance contributions. And I think Mr Kalousek was talking about it here, and in some states they have everything in one pile. I regions and municipalities and universities etc. Of course, the resistance is huge, because I understand that these institutions want to put it in commercial banks. It has absolutely no impact on the liquidity of the banks. On the contrary, this improves the state's liquidity and, of course, improves our parameters, which, of course, has a positive impact on our bond issuance and on the country's overall debt. So I think it's a good measure. And the former finance minister himself says, yeah, I didn't do it, now it's weird that the social democracy wants it... So I think, on principle, you should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u15	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club came forward with priority rights, so I'll give you my word. Then I will talk about the rapporteur's possible final word. [[Member Stanjura wants to put the rapporteur first.]] No, because we're gonna vote anyway, I'm gonna call on the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u16	I mean, we were against it then and we're against it now. I think the reasons were summed up by my colleague Vilímec. More like your coalition partner changed his mind, Mr. Minister, who was opposed when he was in opposition, and when he is in government, he is in favour. That's what happened. All I'm saying for us is that we were against it three years ago. We didn't change our mind just because we're sitting in opposition benches. Whereas the Social Democrats, when opposition benches became government, suddenly say, well, that's pretty good. And before that, they were very sharp about it. That's a little smiling, but they have every right. For us, I say that we have the same opinion, and that is why we are opposed, and that is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u17	Thank you. With priority right, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u18	Thank you. I'm just a brief answer to the Minister. I'm stressing, no one's suggesting rejection, I'm just saying it to the second reading because of the health insurance companies. The funds the minister mentioned, the SŽDC, the transport infrastructure fund, are already there. That's a valid legal condition now, they must already have accounts subordinate to the Treasury. The biggest balance that we've all benefited most from, Rusnok and the Minister, is the balances on the transport infrastructure fund, in the debt management. It's on. But the difference between health insurance companies and the transport structure fund is that SŽDC and the transport infrastructure fund are a state. [[Noise in the hall.]] Health insurance is not a state. Although they manage mandatory mandatory contributions, i.e. their income is compulsory contributions, so health insurance companies are not a state. It is much more complicated there, and even in terms of constitutional conformity, much more squeaky than in the case of state non-budgetary funds. This needs to be realized, and it is all the more important to be fair to them. And when we said five years, we should just hold on to the five years, because it's not worth it again. It's not gonna mean that kind of broth for the state budget, it's gonna be a surprise and a change of rules during the game. Please think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u19	Thank you. Since the debate has been closed, the Minister has already had the final word, he has spoken with priority law, I will ask the rapporteur to check on me. There was no motion to return or refuse. We will therefore only deal with the motion for a commandment to committees to discuss and shorten the time limit that has fallen. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest a committee other than a budget guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Now, the number of entries is stable. In vote number 12, we will decide on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 12, 104 present, for 98, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a proposal to be directed to other committees? Yes, Mr. Adamec. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u20	Mr Vice-President, with reference to my speech in the general debate, I propose that the Committee on Health be the next committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-004-006.u21	Okay. We will decide in the vote number 13, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 13, from 107 in favour of 56, against 4. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal was further ordered to be discussed by the Health Committee as a further committee for discussion. Since there is no other proposal, we will vote on the reduction of the deadline to 30 days. We will decide in the vote number 14, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 14, out of 107 for 80, against 22. This proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee, and has been ordered by the Committee on Health as a next committee, and the period of discussion within the Committee has been reduced to 30 days. I thank the Minister of Finance and the first Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, thank you to the rapporteur, Mr Roman Kubíček. I'm done with point six. The Minister will stay at the rapporteur's table because item 7 is
