ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-003-134.u1	134. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer and Sharing of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund signed in Brussels on 21 May 2014 /German press 324/ - First reading I just want to inform you that this item has been suspended 21. 5. before the debate is opened. Mr Stanjura and Mrs Fischerová were entered into the debate at that time. At the rapporteur's table, I ask that Mr Šrámek take his place, and so should the Minister of Finance, who is excused from today's meeting. Then I'll ask someone from the government to take his place - Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please. So Mr Stanjura prefers Mrs Fischerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-003-134.u2	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor and I wish you ladies and gentlemen a pleasant morning. I will briefly comment on this Treaty, which has already been interrupted in the general debate. Because we jumped on a train at this point, I'm going to pick up what was said last time. I just want to say that, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the compliance of this treaty is with the law of the Czech Republic, EU law, as well as the international obligations of the Czech Republic and the generally binding principles of international law - and I will say this now. In view of the fact that the Czech Republic is not yet participating in the banking union, the ratification of the IGA will not lead to direct budgetary impacts, but, given the strong economic link between the Czech Republic and the euro area in particular, the fact that about 70 percent of the balance sheet assets of the Czech banking sector are under the control of euro area owners, it is likely that IGA will also have an impact on the Czech economy, even if it does not participate itself, and all of this is actually intersecting in this contract. I have said only in brief the specific impact to the present day that I want to express this: I do not recommend that this contract be forwarded to second reading, but I recommend that it be rejected. That's my brief statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-003-134.u3	Yes, thank you, and please, next in line, and that is Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-003-134.u4	I support the motion to dismiss, and I will try to justify it. Yesterday, when we had a long debate on the EET, in one of our speeches, the Minister of Finance joined my joy in our programming principles and says, and I paraphrase that a little bit, if the YES movement has anything to say about it, we will not accept the euro. And I think that's a good thing. We've been saying that for a long time. And this draft contract is again a piece of the puzzle in that salami method so that we will not be able to avoid it, and with reason that, for example, in 2015, the Czech Parliament already approved this agreement on transferring and sharing contributions to the crisis management fund, then our successors will have no room, whether they do or not. The explanatory memorandum correctly describes this as referring to euro area countries. Of course, we can ratify it, we don't have to. We strongly recommend that we do not ratify this because we think that when we look at it - archaic language is really interesting - when you read that the parties, now I will not read them all, are committed to achieving an integrated financial framework in the EU, which is a fundamental part of the banking union. It's not a trivial thing, it's not a standard contract we're dealing with tens here. This means that if we ratify and adopt the euro, our banks will participate in the losses of banks in other states. It's nothing less than that. And I want to ask whether we are really ready to vote in favour of losing banks in other eurozone countries, and we can watch the problems of the southern wing of the eurozone for years when the EU is unsuccessfully trying to solve problems in Greece, and the amount invested in Greece by then is many times higher than so many times the praised European funds, so are you really willing to achieve an integrated financial framework? The sovereignty of the Czech Republic would be reduced again. Too bad the Minister isn't here. I understand he's excused. First of all, I will make a procedural motion for an interruption until the Minister's presence, and it is not a pout, because after that statement yesterday, I assume that he is also one of the opponents of ratification of this treaty, that I cannot say one day I am against the adoption of the euro, and the next day take some step that concerns the banking union and the countries that are in the euro area, which are the ones that have the euro. And since we are unable to properly verify this in the debate whether this logical reasoning is correct, I propose that we interrupt this point until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, because the Minister is duly excused, so I will not propose until his arrival, because, without any doubt, if he had not been duly excused, he is here and he could express himself. If the House does not agree, then of course we insist on our procedural proposal to reject this press in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-033-03-003-134.u5	Yes, I am registering Mr Votava's application here, but this is a procedural proposal, so I have to put it to a vote without a debate. I'll check you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards. Mr Stanjur, I'm just gonna ask you, it's a motion to interrupt this point. There's no condition? [[Agreed.]] Okay. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 73, to which 131 are registered, for 128, against 2. I note that the proposal has been accepted, and I am interrupting negotiations on this point. The next item is
