ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u1	79. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part /German press 310/ - First reading We are finished in the general debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Another duly signed up was Mr Foldyna. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. [[A messenger sits at the newsstand. Fischer.]] Sorry, rapporteur, you're not a master, you're a mistress. I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u2	Thank you, Mr. Control. Colleagues and colleagues, discussing an association agreement with Ukraine is certainly difficult for every state of the European Union. I believe that we should subject this association agreement to some discussion and reading at second reading if we prepare the approval of this association agreement, I think that we should adopt certain accompanying resolutions or accompanying resolutions on this association agreement. You know, I've been looking at some things specifically for the association agreement. I'm just gonna make one comment. The implementation of Ukraine's association agreement will cost another 104 billion US dollars. It will be very difficult for Ukraine, but it will also be very difficult for the countries of the European Union. We accept, or we are talking about an association agreement with a state that has 50 million inhabitants, at the moment it is totally broken down, there is a civil war going on, in this state there are very sensitive to certain negative phenomena such as xenophobia, anti-Semitism and fascism, and we need to adopt, for example, an accompanying resolution in our discussion, where we define ourselves against these phenomena, we are warning Ukrajinec to do this, and we are dealing with other things. One of these things is, of course, the creation of peace conditions in Ukraine to ensure that people in Ukraine, whether they are Ukrajinec or Rus, simply the citizens of Ukraine, do not live in a situation where they have to fear for the lives of their children. There is also a need to define some future relationships. I think that peace in Ukraine is also conditional on talking about what is the axiom of why there is also a war there, and it is a certain attempt to tell Ukrajinec that they have the opportunity to join NATO. This is also a very important issue for the security of the Czech Republic. At this point, Ukraine is not a state ready to enter NATO, and we should also mention this in our accompanying resolution on the association agreement. There is a need to seek a peaceful way out. There is no other than a non-military way out, a diplomatic way out, in Ukraine. And I think that this should also be part of a certain accompanying resolution. Just about the association agreement. Europe rejects genetically modified food, however, in Article 3 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 404 is said to increase the use of biotechnology in Ukraine. Therefore, major American companies may develop their biotechnology in Ukraine, and Ukraine will export biologically modified food to the European Union. I think that this too must be pointed out in the accompanying resolution as a concern of the Czech Republic. So I would like to say, if we approve an association agreement with Ukraine, we need to say our comments as the Czech Parliament and accompany this association agreement with an accompanying resolution. That was the contents of my note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u3	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek and then Mrs. Zelienková duly applied for, then Mr. Fiedler duly applied for. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last point in Ukraine, I had to sign up with a factual remark, otherwise I would not be able to speak, and I spoke very briefly here, so let me add my performance, and please see it as a compact performance. Do we really not understand, or do we not want to understand what is really going on here? Do we really not understand that the global world is changing and that no matter how unpleasant it is, however uncomfortable we are, there is a growing border between the Western world, which recognizes the values that we have been talking about here for 25 years and a day, and another world? We really don't understand that we have to resign to the idea that there is a concept of universal value, because there are no universal values, and that our world, our life in which we want to live, is based on values that we can't export now because we don't have the strength to do it, but we have to defend them and we have to defend them at all costs, because otherwise the life of most of us would have lost meaning? And in that case, please give us a good answer to one simple question: West or East? There's no third way! There are no bridges between the West and the East - just because, from a strategic point of view, fighting control is the first thing that blows up is bridges. And I would very much like the party where I am the first Vice-President would very much like the Czech Republic to belong to the West, but if we want to belong to the West, in addition to the words that we say sometimes, we must support this with quite clear actions, and even with a willingness to sacrifice. Yes, we want to belong to the West because we want to belong to the free world. I don't think we're very clear about this in this House, and certainly not in this society. I ask you very much to understand that this is not a game of the right or the left or a new movement that comes with something completely new. That it's quite an ordinary question of whether or not I want to stay single, whether I belong to the West or to the East. If I want to stay somewhere in between, because my member base is not entirely sure - Minister Zaorálek - I will be the first to fall between those two chairs because there is a gap. I speak for those who simply want to belong in the West and want to say it not only by saying it here in the microphone, but by the willingness of their actions, and if necessary, of their victims. Please note that we are now a single box on the global chessboard. And it depends on us where we want to belong. I'm begging you to think about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u5	Thank you to President Kalousek. Now with priority... Sorry, with the de facto remark, Vice-President Filip, then with priority...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u6	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I am just really concerned about what Mr Kalousek said. Yes, these are universal values, such as the value of freedom and so on. But I also have to talk about it, or think about who I'm connecting with. And it is very difficult for me to vote in favour of the association agreement when the representative of the state we are discussing declares that Soviet troops occupied Ukraine in 1943 and then occupied Germany. Sort of overturning the outcome of World War II, denying Tehran, denying Yalta, denying the Potsdam Conference - that is a serious threat to freedom!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u7	Mr Tejc, Mr Kalousek, followed by Mr Kalousek, made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u8	Madam, honourable Members, I think we agree that the debate was quite substantive until the performance of Miroslav Kalousek, and it was aimed at what it was intended to do, that is to say that the committee will assess the proposal. But allow me to react briefly, too. I don't think we're deciding whether or not the Czech Republic will take the West European route. We are not voting here about joining the European Union. We're already in it. We are co-decisioning on the European Union. So please, let's not create these impressions. And about the values. Yes, let us work together to ensure that values, fundamental human rights, are respected. But let's not look at these things in black and white. Let us not look over the glasses pink at Ukraine and through the dark at Russia. The problems are on both sides, and I think that we should clearly insist that in both cases, in both of these countries human rights will be respected, democracy will be respected, not pretending that one is excellent and the other is bad. In both cases, there are problems, and I think that is why, for example, some colleagues here are talking about the need for an accompanying resolution on the association agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u9	Thank you, Mr Tejc. Mr Kalousek, then Minister Mládek and Minister Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u10	Thank you. Unlike the President's speech I am convinced that my contribution was very factual and that it brought the discussion back to the level where it really belongs. A simple question, West or East. And it is no coincidence that immediately after I got off, the other extreme, let's say, President Filip, who completely disagreed - and would hardly surprise me with any other attitude - with what I said. The biggest mistake we could make would be looking for a compromise somewhere in the middle, which is about what Mr Tejc here has done: we will be the bridge. We're gonna be the bridge that's gonna keep an eye on both sides, if it's really good. Well, the bridge is the first one to be the target. We really need to answer a question that's not that colorful, she's really black and white. And don't look for any rainbow spectrum in between. The question is black and white. Are we West or East? If I were now a member of any Western European country, I would say, "Look at these Czechs, they don't know what they want. Let's build that wall on Sumava, let's go to Putin, I'm scared of them! But since I'm among the Čech and I don't want the wall to be in Sumava, I want it to be as far east as possible from our borders as possible, so I'm telling you, for God's sake, let's decide! We belong in the West.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u11	I thank Mr Kalousek. Furthermore, Minister - with a factual remark, Mr Kováčik and Mr Foldyna. Then priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u12	Thank you for the floor. When it goes west, it will come from the east, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President. It could happen, too. Pepa Nos sang one song like that a long time ago, and I'd be practically telling the truth. At least that's what the empire can be. But there is talk here in another context about the threat to Christian civilization by radical Islamism. I personally think that the Czech Republic belongs to Europe, to Central Europe. And Europe begins with Gibraltar and ends with Ural. And this whole Europe is a Christian civilization. It's not just Catholic civilization, it's Orthodox. It's just that the roots are a long time ago common, and I think that if we keep strengthening inside, restoring some kind of artificial boundaries and boundaries, and we're going to keep arguing, arguing, fighting, and fighting in that Europe from Gibraltar to Ural, then the Islamic state is going to put us on bread. I think that unity must be sought throughout Europe, not only in Western and Central, but also southern, but that it must be in a pan-European but truly pan-European perspective if this European Christian civilization wants to survive and develop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now my colleague Stanislav Huml, also with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u14	I would also like to argue with my colleague Kalousek. What you are doing is populism of the rudest grain, through the President. We have decided, we are part of the West, we are part of the European Union. That's no way to ask a question. Indeed, the question is who we want to be with in the European Union and whether we will allow the European Union to expand to the fascist society. Ukrainian social nationalism is regarded by the Ukrainian nation as a community of blood and race. [[There's a disagreement in the right side of the hall.]] Wait, I'm quoting now, with forgiveness. The question of total Ukrainianization in the future social nationalist state will be solved by a strong policy within three to six months. The author is a Member of the Verkhov Council Andrej Belickij, commander of the Azov bloc. Whoever saw Jaško, Jaroš and the other stars of Ukraine in the videos knows what I'm talking about. That's the point, if we want to shake hands with these people. And that's where I see the problem, and that's why I have the problem. Whether or not we're going to expand on these people. Whether Ukraine is capable of achieving a state where human rights will be perceived as being the fundamental of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u15	Thank you. Now Mr Kalousek's point of order, then Mr Foldyna. I'm registering the two priority rights of the ministers. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u16	Thank you. What was said before me - yes, we formally made a decision. We formally decided to become members of the European Union and become members of NATO. And did we really make that decision? Have we decided in our hearts and in our actions? Or do we look like the fifth column to most partners there? And that's exactly the answer we need to be able to give. If the civilised world, through the President, Mr Huml, comes to his mind, and I wouldn't be so surprised that we're the Fifth Column, he'll get rid of us. And I would really hate for him to get rid of us as the fifth column, because the fact that there are many of Putinův's propagandaists in the Czech media, in the Czech public and in this House, I have no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Foldyna, then Mr Jandák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u18	I would return to the comment of my colleague Tejc, whom Kalousek criticized. This isn't about black and white vision. This is about wanting the law to apply on both sides. There is no more discussion here than that we want the law, human rights to apply on both sides, and we define ourselves to those actions that negate it. I don't think we can go back to the '50s and say 'who's not coming with us is against us'. I read Mňačkův's Late Reports, and it looks like we're going back to the terminology of opožděný Reports. From a geopolitical point of view, I think our country cannot be part of a certain block of political and military. But within that block, we're not a satellite state. We're a partner state, and we say our notes, which are justified in the history we've been through. And I don't think partnership is any worse than what we're doing here. I just don't want to be a satellite. [[12.10 hours]] I want to say my specific comment as the Czech Republic on this phenomenon. And I don't think we should be nagging each other like that. Look how we turned out when we weren't able to deal with the consequences that -- I'll be back for a second. Look at the outcome of Kosovo today. Two hundred thousand people running. And here was the vote, where a state arose. Who's gonna go back to that, the responsibility? So we do not want to take responsibility for adopting a resolution without discussion. Who burned four dozen people in Odessa? Who? No one's ever told us! Who shot down the plane? No one's ever told us! So what are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u19	Thank you. Now the factual remark of Vítězslav Jandák, then the preferential rights of ministers. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u20	Thank you, Mr President. It's not a factual point, it's a question. I'm a deer, my friends. My colleague Kalousek is worried, and I think we're entitled to be the fifth column. But I want to ask him through the President: What about the governments of Greece, Cyprus, Austria, Hungary? Oh, for God's sake, are those the sixth columns? I don't know. Can you please advise me and answer me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u21	Okay. Now Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek, then Minister Mládek. Please, Minister, you have the floor. Then a duly registered colleague, Fiedler. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I will probably also try to respond to the ongoing debate. In the beginning, however, I would like to say that I do not share at all the proud and arrogant notion of the West that Mr Kalousek has shown here. I feel like I'm seeing a history of a completely different West than he is. I don't know at all that we, as representatives of the West that he claims to be, should look like some sort of chosen civilization. Let me remind you that the West, which Mr Kalousek seems to be talking about, held in the twentieth century the two most terrible world wars in which millions of people died. I would like to tell you that the wars that have been here that have caused the deaths of tens of millions of people, tens of millions of victims, have not been caused by anyone Eastern, it has not been caused by anyone far, but by ourselves. And the Holocaust is even in something like the climax of Western history. Do you understand? Those hundreds of years of European history are also hundreds of years of liquidation of minorities. Remember the Spanish Reconquista in the 16th century. Remember how Žid were treated there, how Muslims were treated there. That's Western history. History of aggression even in South America and other countries. The whole history of the West is just full of blood! But what I would like to do here, fellow Members - what Europe has drawn from this history after World War II, when some people here in Europe have just realized that this is not going on. That those streams of blood, millions of dead women and children, are something that we carry with us as a responsibility. [[He speaks in a very strong, strong voice.]] That even we as the West have the responsibility for gas chambers in which we have managed to spend people like rabbits! That's what we did to the West! And at that moment - and also because of what's left of the West! In the bipolar world, the world shrunk so that Europe fell into nothingness. She was no political factor. She seemed ashamed of what she did for decades! And the only thing that arose here as the hope of the West, which Mr Kalousek spoke with such pride only - is the idea that if we woke up like this with the blood, we could establish a community on values where we respect that if we do not want to repeat this and live in peace, we must work together and establish something that we will trade, associate and protect ourselves from falling into temptation to deal with it again with our fists. That's Western history. Horrible, my friends! Terrible history of the West! And I owe it to those who at that moment really humiliated the West - realize that what Europe was like, how it was treated after World War II, it was really humiliating. She's become nothing! It completely disappeared between the two powers that formed the form of the world and the balance based on nuclear weapons. Do you understand? This is no uplifting history. And the only thing that's been saving us for the last 50 to 60 years is that we've decided not to repeat this and that we're gonna start a community that's going to prosper economically, and those economic ties may not allow us to repeat the terrible mistakes of the past. Mr. Kalousek here said there are no universal values. That's just what he said here - there's no such thing. But do you understand? We are on these very values, that we simply cannot kill ourselves, that people should not torture ourselves, that we will not murder ourselves here, that we will keep peace and that we will work together, on those values that I believe have a universal character - Mr Kalousek claims that there is no such thing! - on which we founded European civilization after the war. And we were even hoping maybe somebody would join us later. I am talking about the universality of values because I believe that we are also able to talk to the Číňan, the Asiat and everyone about these values that Europe has begun to live on after the war, and that we also have ambition for what we have done in the past, to promote in the world. It seems to me that the vision Mr Kalousek here has shown that we, the West, are the last to have those values, unversal, as he said, only ours, only Western, we are the last to hold them, says Mr Kalousek, so we must now strengthen them. We must probably build some quality walls - and best isolate ourselves completely! I want to assure you that throughout history, which Mr Kalousek probably doesn't know very well, all attempts to create these walls have failed. Every wall has been demolished. There were always barbarians who invaded those walls and destroyed that civilization that thought it would shut itself down. I am convinced that we should not be as proud as we have heard here and say that we stand above others, because when we look back, we find that we should often be ashamed of what we have done here. At the same time, I think we have a duty to discuss the values we have with others, because we should wish the world around us would share them. I assure you, I think there are people in every corner of the world who are ready to talk to us about this and who even believe that there is something that can connect us. You know, I was fascinated by what the US President just said in New York when he said where universal human values begin. And he said: They begin in various huts of the world, where people are often in poverty, in a bigoted xenophobic environment where they suffer, and where these people hope that there are some universal rights that they can reach and fight for. And these people in various parts of the world are our allies. And maybe sometimes they look to us, the rich West, hoping that we will hold them in their misery. Do you understand? This way that the President of the United States turns to poor villages in Africa and Asia and says "there are those who create universality and valuable values that we hope the world will stand on" is truly a humanistic view for me. And not the look of someone who gets out here and says, "We're the belly button that's the only one who's restored the values of the world, and we've got to keep up with the other criminal barbarians." That's a bad idea, and I'm rejecting her here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u23	I said that Minister Mládek would speak, and then Minister Herman, who applied with priority rights, but before that are the factual remarks made by Mr Marek Benda, Zbyněk Stanjura, Miroslav Kalousek, Michal Kučera. Mr. Marek Benda. I beg you not to abuse a factual remark. But my colleague Benda vědět what a factual point is. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I did not want to be involved in this debate until Minister Zaorálek spoke with his incredible speech, in which he said the West is completely wrong, we are responsible for everything. [[Protest voices from the left side of the hall.]] Did you listen to him? Did you listen to him, please? Everything's completely wrong, we're degenerate. That sounds like an incredible speech to me, what's going on here, that I don't think it's really supposed to be there. Words about the two world wars that the West has unleashed. What started World War II, please? A pact of two lunatics, Molotov and Ribbentrop, respectively. Stalin and Hitler, who have nothing to do with the West and Christian civilization. [[protests from the left side of the hall]] Nothing in common! [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Everyone from a different point of view, but they are representatives of exactly the world in which bůh is dead and everything can happen. One of the pride of race supremacy, the other of the pride of class superiority, and with this he will start World War II by dividing Poland. And Minister Zaorálek here is going to tell me that this is the West's fault? You can't be serious!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u25	Next, a colleague of Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u26	On the question that Miroslav Kalousek asked, if we want to belong to the West or to the East, and I thought that every member of the Democratic Party was clear that he wanted to belong to the West, so Minister Zaorálek convinced me that he did not want to belong there. He forgot about the exposé, about how he spit on our history, about our history, about the gulags, the Soviet Union, Pol Pota, and now I could name all the communist crimes. That's not a good fit for him. That's not a good fit for him. I don't know if he's at the convention. Unbelievable performance. An incredible performance by an extreme leftist. I hope it doesn't really translate, and our allies won't hear what he's done here. Really. You're making an association agreement and you want it, or you don't want it after what you said? Well, if you don't want her, don't put her here! You can't both be in favour and against it! I really don't! I'm really appalled by what you said today, how you puked on all of us, our ancestors, who you sewed on the cross. You're still smiling! I know you like it when you used to go to North Korea and stuff, but I really don't like it there. And I'm proud that we belong in the West, and it's a very simple question for me. I think it's more rhetorical. But after what you did today, I don't know where you want to belong and where you want to lead Czech foreign policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u27	In addition, Mr Miroslav Kalousek's factual remark, then Mr Michal Kučera's remark. And I'm asking everyone to log in electronically. I remind you that the electronic application takes precedence over both factual and proper applications. In this respect, I cannot violate the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Zaorálek may have violated all the noise, hygiene limits, but he did so only to beat and criticize for 15 minutes the statements I did not make. I didn't really defend witch trials here. I didn't really defend the Holy Inquisition here or the attacks of Richard srdce on Jerusalem. I defended the values that Europe came to when it approved the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and set up the Council of Europe in their defence. These are the values that we live, which are anchored - I apologize to all atheists and Muslims - which are anchored in the Christian cultural world in which we are born and in which we want to live. Whether we realize it or not, we share his values. I just wanted to point out a little thing. That the Christian cultural world today does not have the strength to make its values universal, so that it will have nothing to do with its values, which it will defend with zero tolerance from anyone who wants to devalue them, and that, as at the heart of Europe, it is up to us to decide whether we want those Western European Christian cultural values or the oligarchy of the Asian-Stalin-Putin type. There's nothing in between. And that we must give the signals to the civilized world not only by our speech but also by our actions. I didn't want to say anything else that TOP 09 would do anything to be part of that Western Christian world -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u29	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. I'm the one who pointed out that he's overstepping the point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u30	[[He's talking without a microphone.]] He turned me off! Then I'll say it without a microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u31	No, Mr. Ambassador, you made a point of fact. Please respect the Rules of Procedure! There are 10 other people registered behind you for a factual comment. I think they have the same right as you do in this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u32	[[No microphone.]] I respect that. Despite...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u33	Thank you. Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u34	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly respond to the outrageous speech that Minister Zaorálek has given here. Minister, I think you know that there was a major security conference in Munich this weekend, and you might have tried that speech there. Perhaps you'd learn what your colleagues would say about him. But your knee hurt, I guess. I think you know what was said in Munich about the Czech Republic. Nothing. They didn't say anything. You know, respect deserves a strong ally, and respect deserves a strong opponent. The Czech Republic under your leadership is neither a strong ally nor a strong opponent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u35	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr František Laudát, on a point of fact. Then Mr. Ženíšek. I have all the other electronically logged in. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd like you to calm the atmosphere a little bit. Only to Mr. Zaorálek. You know, he didn't murder the West, German fascists killed him. Čechoslovák, Čech and Slovák did not murder and arrest people Czechoslovak communists. They didn't murder the Rus, they killed Stalinův's handle, stuff like that. And we could go on like this. I have a completely different approach to this. However, I'd like to ask you. How would you feel if you were really clinging to something like hope, and somewhere in the United States of Congress, they would argue like that, and you waited. The Ukrainian people. We're not deciding on some porrose, some oligar, I don't know who, fascists or Ukrainians, what was said here. This is where we decide the future of the Ukrajinec, the future of their children. And you're fighting here. Please come to the vote. I beg all of you, with all these other remarks, to give up our contribution so that we can finally, with dignity, pronounce the treaty and give the Ukrajinec hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u37	Thank you. Now, Mr Marek Geniešek, Mr Marek Ženíšek, with a point of fact. He probably won't listen to his party colleague give up his word. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u38	Mr President, through your - František, I love you, but I will not give up that option. Just a brief comment on what the Foreign Minister has said here, which has provoked me to this exit. There is no point in commenting on what Mr Huml or Mr Foldyna has said here. That's where we always know what they'll come up with before this microphone. The minister here spoke of his interest in President Obama's statement, and he spoke of him with such enthusiasm that it may seem as if the President was telling him face to face. Let me remind you, Minister, that what Mr Huml said here, what Mr Foldyna said here, and what you said here, is exactly why President Obama has not yet officially accepted you and will probably not accept you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u39	Thank you. Now, Mr Miroslav Opálka, then Mr Jiří Junek, with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, you know, the worst is when politicians dabble in everything without having a classic education in everything. I think we could leave that history behind, because what went down here, if somebody was gonna evaluate it, so... I understand there are different views, but the truth shouldn't be bent. I can explain that World War II started by Hitler receiving support from German capital and then blessed him with the weapons of the highest who had power over ideology. And you won't agree to it because you have a different vision. [[12.30 hours]] But the world is really moving somewhere else, Mr. Kalousek is right about that. The white race is dwindling in the world, and the movement, as well as the economic countries of BRICS and others, is much more dynamic than ours. Of course, the problems are different, and I think we should focus on the central value of humanism. Ancient Europe also stood on the central value of humanism. And I think it's one of the ways. But if we're gonna argue about whether this one or that one started in the past, we're not gonna get anything. We'll be in a Roman senate wondering if he'll withdraw his troops from Britain. That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u41	I thank Mr Opálek. Now, Mr Jiří Junek, then Mr, who made a point of fact and then changed his priority right. [[Baby?]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u42	Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. I have to respond to several previous speakers. First of all, Mr Kováčik. I agree, Europe from Pyrenees to Urals. However, you should tell Mr Putin in Moscow that we really should not argue in Europe. Then the Islamic State will really rub us on bread. You're right about that. But Mr Putin must begin. [[With emphasis:]] And don't send tanks and soldiers to Ukraine! Second, Mr Jandák. I'd like to respond. Comparison was said - states, Greece, Hungary, etc. But I don't want to be like Řecko. Yes, that's where the communists won. Yes, it's the fifth column of Russia. I don't want to be like them! [[Screams from the seats of Members of the KSČM.]] Third point - Minister Zaorálek, the list of all the West has done. Great. But what about gulag? What about the Russian-Finnish war? What famine in Ukraine! Are those the West's achievements? I don't think so. Mr. Foldyna - last comment. It was said that there were some accompanying resolutions, and it was argued that in Ukraine - anti-Semitism, fascism. Yes, but the same is true in Germany, France, our country. These are simply accompanying phenomena of democracy. There's nothing we can do about it. [[Ironic laugh from the left side of the hall.]] So I'd like us not to use these unfair things. In order not to say Ukraine, they are fascists and anti-Semiticists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Now Minister Jan Mládek has made a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u44	Dear colleagues, I must turn to a point of fact, because priority law is worthless at the moment. I thought, until President Kalousek's speech, that we were coming closer to moving this treaty into committees, because frankly - what is it about? This is not the choice between the West and the East, it is the economic agreement of the European Union with Ukraine, true, with political overlap. I had the hope that sooner or later we would pragmatically approve the agreement, it is also in our interest, but at the same time we will express some distance from some of the things that are happening in Ukraine. For example, we would say that we wouldn't want to know that Prague was freed by a wehrmacht, it almost seems that way sometimes. That if we want human rights, we do not just want them in Russia, but also in Ukraine, and that we will not close our eyes, we should also say that we will not want double standards. That we don't like oligarchs - I don't like them either, but besides Russian oligarchs, of course, Ukrainian oligarchs are also a problem. And that's what we should distance ourselves from. Of course, the problem in Ukraine is not that there are some marginal groups that are fascinating. But what's important is the government's attitude to distance itself from them, which I feel we haven't heard yet. And I think we're definitely not facing the West or the East. We joined NATO in 1999, we joined the European Union in 2004, and I am convinced that we are part of the West, and that is correct. I was in East Berlin in 1982, saying goodbye to my American friend who was leaving -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u45	Minister, I must take your word for it, because your time for a point of fact has come to an end. [[I'll be disciplined, Mr. Chairman.]] Thank you for respecting the Rules of Procedure. [[ČSSD applause.]] Now, Mr Korte, then Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u46	Thank you, Mr President. The Foreign Minister responded to Mr Kalousek's speech, but it seems he responded to something other than what Mr Kalousek said. In his scandalous speech, he said what he said, and it needs to be seen in the context of the internal political, intra-party situation in the ČSSD. The Foreign Minister is very often loudly criticized from the left side - the ultra-left wing of his party and ČSSD has before the convention. Sapienti sat. But I want to say that on one thing - I think I will surprise the Minister - I fully agree with him when he said that Europe has learned from its bloody history. Yes, Europe has learned. So, for example, the idea of Germany attacking Holland or France is completely absurd. But, Minister, it's Russia that hasn't learned! Russia, which occupys Abkhazia and South Ossetia, territorial parts of Georgia! Russia that annexed Crimea! Russia, which actively supports separatists in eastern Ukraine! And I don't want to get caught up in old history. Minister, Russia has not learned its lesson, and that is what Kalousek pointed out in his speech. I'm afraid you've passed away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u47	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Foldyna, then Mrs Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u48	I wanted to start with something else, but I can't. Through the President, Mr Korte. [[Highly:]] Sorry, Russia didn't bomb Yugoslavia in 1999. Cassette bombs didn't kill Russian militia Rakic in 1999 in April! So you have to realize who bombed who here, who was at war. I don't want to be a supporter of any Russian, but let's tell the truth! When we want to tell the truth and people watch TV, they think the Soviet Union started World War II and de facto the most victims of the war were forced by Red Army soldiers. You haven't noticed that in 1938 it was a betrayal of Daladier and Chamberlain, it was a betrayal of England and France, a betrayal of democratic Czechoslovakia? The Molotov and Ribbentrop Pact was a year after completely different steps took place. I don't want to defend them here. But we're not lying here, let's not create artificial impressions here! It's just that at this point, any punch is used only if it's a punch. And this is sad, please, from the Czech Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u49	Thank you. Now, Mrs Němcová. Mr Šarapatka will be prepared, then Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u50	Thank you for the floor. I am speaking, Mr Vice-President, only to say that I fundamentally reject the speech made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I consider it extremely warning for the reputation of the Czech Republic precisely because it was heard from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. If we were talking about Ukraine a moment ago, I was the one who suggested that we discuss the subject, because I felt that it mattered to the Minister. Then, after his speech, we get a lot of reactions here from the Social Democrats: well, don't be surprised, it's before the convention and he had to get back to us. Some of us sighed: well, he must have gone crazy - with forgiveness, so I don't have proof for it, sorry to say so openly. But I'm convinced that your speech was about as classy as when the Communists now opened up the Pol Pot show of success at their headquarters... North Korea. [[Laughs from Members of the KSČM.]] I think it would be quite appropriate there as an opening speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u51	Mr Milan Šarapatka, Mr Kalousek, will now prepare. Everyone with a point of fact. Please, Mr Šarapatka, I will record once more from the place of Mr Jandák's application, but if anyone signs up electronically, Mr Jandak will still take precedence over you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that unlike some of my colleagues, I agree with this treaty. On the other hand, it must be realised that this is only a first and formal step that will not help Ukraine at this time. On the contrary, Ukraine will gradually open the market to significantly stronger players from the West, and Ukraine will have a major problem defending these players. At the same time, it will oblige the European Union to support Ukraine economically, and I do not think that at the moment the issues of what resources are not solved and the volumes of this assistance are not identified. So far, Greece has cost us 240 billion. EUR. Ukraine is five times bigger! Do we have it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u53	I thank Mr Šarapatek. Now, with Mr Kalousek's point of fact, then Mr Jandák's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I understand Minister Mládek, who says, oh, my God, what's going on here? This is basically a technical document, let's let him go to second reading! Why are we having a political debate about him? But when other times, when are we to have a fundamental political debate, what do we want and where we belong, rather than on these points, given what absolutely illegible outputs the Czech government is issuing in cooperation with the President of the Republic? Minister Mládek has formally applied here - he cannot do otherwise, because that is what he really is - to membership in the countries of the European Union and NATO, but at the same time he says: Well, we, like we can be the fifth column, because we are sovereign countries. Unfortunately, his performance and his concrete political actions as Minister of Industry and Trade confirm that he wants to be the fifth column, and we are extremely concerned about that. And what I wanted to say to Minister Zaorálek when he spit on the Western world and said that we had to be open, so I would like you, that's whether we're going out or not, so I'd like to ask so much next time the summit is as big as the Munich conference, so please don't put your knees behind you in the kitchen. I have no doubt that you were in pain, but that is really not an argument why the Foreign Minister is not going to this summit. And go there to state the position of the Czech Republic. I would like to say to the KDU-ČSL Members that I almost always agree with what they are saying here. The problem is that they always vote and always do something that is not in favour of the Czech Republic and its anchoring in the Western world. [[- Mr. Congressman...]] You guys have to... Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u55	Mr. Ambassador, you have finished your speech in a factual remark. Thank you for respecting the Rules of Procedure. Mr Vítězslav Jandák on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I really just want to defend myself over there to my colleague. I'm not going to spread politically because I'm worried about mine talks because I'm sure Putin in shock, and Porošenko stopped selling candy in Russia. But I wanted to tell you, colleague, that I did not know until now that communists ruled Austria and Hungary. Thank you. You named those countries!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u57	I thank Mr Jandák. And now two priority rights: Minister Herman and Minister Zaorálek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u58	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues, I would start with an anecdote that I started my contribution last autumn in the US Congress when we were there to expose the bust of Václav Havel. It's from the pre-November era. The American and then Czechoslovak president met and spoke to each other. The Czechoslovak president says to his American colleague: "Mr. President, we have freedom of speech here." And the American president says, "Well, that's fine. And in our country we have freedom even after we say the word." I think that's the difference between the West and the East, at least as we understood it by 1989. I think the subject we are talking about here is too serious for us to abuse it for short-lived political purposes. And I think we should take a look at history. Because all you have to do is look at our tables, the way we write. Where it says Latin, there's just the West. We've been a part of the West for a thousand years. It has to do with our location. I'll just take two basic years very briefly. The year 845, when the first 14 Czech lions receive baptism in the Prague Cathedral. And in 863, when the great Moravian prince Rastislav invited Byzantine leaders Cyril and Metoděj to Great Moravia. This clearly marked the identity of this country. A country that belongs to the West but is also very close to the culture of the East and is therefore able to create a kind of landscape of bridges. And I think that's a great added value. We've always been part of the West in the past. Until 1803 when Napoleon Bonaparte destroyed the Holy Roman Empire, then 150 years later we were once again part of Western communities. And after the terrible disaster of World War II, yes, when many people were rightly disappointed by the great and terrifying policies of the appeasing of the leaders of democratic countries back then, in the face of Adolf Hitler, the idea of the ruins of the Second World War destroyed Europe was once again born to build a new community, not only the Coal and Steel Community, but also the spirit community. People like Konrad Adenauer, Alcide de Gasperi and Robert Schuman came up with it. This is the basis of the European Union. If we see these things only horizontally today, if we forget that this is the idea, the idea of the spirit that connects us, then, of course, certain pillars of stability on which Europe and our identity stand are disappearing. Finally, the whole debate on the European Constitution shows this, when we are unable to confess our identity to our own roots. This ideal spiritual vacuum, which we are creating here not only in our country, but unfortunately in Europe it absorbs various dangerous trends that may come from elsewhere. But the historical facts are important. A whole series of historical facts have been heard here. The gulags, which were foreshadowed by Nazi concentration camps, were not really a figment of the West. Nazi ideologologist Joseph Goebbels never hid his fascination with the Bolshevik coup in Russia, which meant a complete disaster in the 20th century, which allowed the expansion of this plague of Bolshevism to Europe and to other continents of the world. So these are the facts I think we can't forget. On the other hand, the world has really moved somewhere else. Today, thank God, we are part of the free world. Yes, a world that has its roots in Western culture. But I think it's a little more complicated than just seeing the West-East as it was before 1989. We have a unique opportunity to be that bridge again, like thousands of years ago, and we should offer a hand in the face of the suffering of our near nation in Ukraine, which is simply under enormous pressure from the Russian aggressor. It is not only about the economy, it is also about solidarity, which is one of the pillars of the European Community, the European Union. Let us not be drawn into any short-term partisan political interests and try to approach this issue in a matter of fact. We are, thank bůh, on that side of freedom, of human rights. Let's not take this! It is our great responsibility to those who have died for these ideals. We are standing at a moment when the country needs our help culturally and historically very close to us. Let us give her this help, which she certainly has the right to, and let us try to make things clear. I'm proud to be part of the West. I consider myself a Western policy, and I am pleased that even the security strategy of the Czech Republic, which we discussed recently in the government, is based on the two fundamental pillars, namely the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. Don't question this! These are very important pillars that make it easier for us to achieve our solidarity with a country that is in danger and suffers from a truly unprecedented aggression of a huge state that has beyond its borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u59	Thank you, Minister Herman. Now two factual points before the speech of Minister Zaorálek, Mr Kalousek and Mr Jandák, but he has an electronic application. [[Member Jandak from the O.R.: I was early!]] Ambassador, I warned you about this. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister Herman said that he is glad that we belong to the West and that he considers himself a pro-Western politician. Then there is no answer to one single question. If that is the case, Mr Minister, through Mr President, why aren't you acting like one? Why are you just talking about it, and then with a screwed-up movement, you're drilling into the back of the post-Soviet oligarchs? It's hard to believe you! It's hard to believe that you really consider yourself a pro-Western politician and that you're proud to be part of the West. Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion can only go round and round. I repeat, we have a choice between A and B. We don't have an A minus, or we don't have a B plus. Either we want to belong to the West or we don't want to. And if we don't want to be part of the West, we'll be part of the East, because if we don't give a clear answer, that West will push us to the East. What would he do to us if we didn't want to be a reliable partner? And I provoke this debate for one reason only to mobilize you to be a reliable partner. So that the western civilized countries don't fear us like the fifth column. Because, after Minister Mládek and Minister Zaorálek have said here, there is a great danger that we will be perceived as the fifth column.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u61	Thank you for keeping time this time. Mr Vítězslav Jandák is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I won't comment on my friend Mirka Kalousek, he's fighting for the West. Chairman TOP 09 appears to be already fighting in Kiev. [[Laughs in the hall.]] But I was gonna say another thing. I'm gonna say Daniel Herman to my predecessor. Daniel, great speech. But you said two things. Joseph Goebbels. Well, I'd like to point out to you that Joseph Goebbels' institute was just cancelled in Kiev a few months ago, if you didn't know. And one party had it, which is part of a government coalition. I don't want to name her. And then the other thing. You said here, maybe you missed it: after 1989 we understood. I, man, understood a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u63	Thank you, Mr Jandák, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and then colleague Fiedler, colleague Zelienková. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u64	Yes. I hope we can get back to that association agreement with Ukraine. I, perhaps, would like to summarize at the margo of the debate that all I have to say is that I think humanism is hard work. And especially if somebody's telling us to be an ally to somebody, so that we have to be reliable, then I think the only way we can keep that reliability is if we don't lie to each other in our pockets. Do you understand? When we realize that humanism is really hard work and that it is easy to go astray and that there were enormous risks to us here in Europe, too, when we could not defend those values. I recently attended this conference held here for the 70th anniversary of the Holocaust, both in Terezín with a large participation of many foreign guests and also thinkers such as Timothy Snyder and many others. And the debates that were going on here were just about how, to this day after all these years, the question is, how could this even happen? How is it possible that in the middle of an advanced state, which was even one of Europe's most cultural countries, how is it possible that everyone went there to destroy people, as I said here, like rabbits. And IG Farben and other factories simply supplied products. Let's not kid ourselves that somebody pulled it from the east or somewhere. This was created here from our own resources in our own culture. So what I'm saying is that to realize and realize the dangers that humanist culture and humanistic ideas have, as Masaryk understood them, is that this is something that is really laborious and it is not so obvious. And to me, the pride I heard here seemed like something to warn me about. That's why I responded. It seems to me that we cannot speak proudly of ourselves as a culture that somehow surpasses the others. All I was going to say was that I'm not so sure that we're just automatically so much better than the others. I didn't mean East. I just meant Asia, South America and a whole bunch of others. I feel like, I don't know if there are reliable universal values in the sky. But the universality exists as a goal we want to achieve. If the planet is to look a little orderly and if it is not to burn in a fire, then we need to be able to talk to each other and try to do so. Friends, what's happening in Minsk today is just trying to talk to each other! And the point is, can we do it? I have news today that Vladimír Putin was there persuading separatists to accept the deal. You understand, we're gonna shake hands with all this? We say - this is another culture, another civilization, we don't talk to them, we don't care? Or are we going to look for a way, a deal, just the values we want the others to live? Because only here in Europe, if we defend them, it's not enough. That's why we're bringing in this association agreement with Ukraine. We don't answer the question, "Is Ukraine the West or the East?". Nobody asks that question. Maybe we can have doubts. We may feel that there are many things in Ukraine that would not happen in Europe. And I even think we have a duty to talk to Ukrajinec about it. And if there has been any doubt as to how history is interpreted there, I can assure you that I have spoken openly to Ukrainian Minister Klimkin and President Porošenk about what is troubling here. Using insignia and a tendency to understand the past as there is simply no defense here in the Czech Republic! I spoke openly about this even in front of other ministers! That's just part of the game of values we want to promote in the world. And this association agreement is part of the openness I was talking about. We're not saying we're going to decide if it belongs to the West or the East. We want to work together when the other one says it's what they want. That's why we have the deal here today. We don't discipline, we don't label anyone. If you want to cooperate, come, but you have to respect certain rules. The Association Agreement is about these rules in the area of justice, the functioning of police, security forces, etc. The basic rules that are a prerequisite for possible cooperation. That is why we are deepening the link between Ukraine and Europe. It's promoting those values that we'd like to be universal. Because maybe it would make the world a better place to live. And that's why, let's just say, I didn't mind someone saying, "There's no such thing." Or if someone says that we're a privileged culture that will probably teach the others, and if they're dangerous, we'll lean on them. I merely said that this vision of the world is inoperable. It just can't work like this anymore. But otherwise, I'd like to get back to the basics of the thing. I think this association agreement is just a handshake handed to Ukraine. Ukraine is in a difficult situation, that is what has been said here. He's in a difficult political, economic situation. Even in terms of security, what is happening in the east threatens not only Ukraine but even us. It's all true. Yet I think that taking this step and offering this hand is something that makes sense. I think it is a question of our confidence to do this, and our confidence and our belief that what we believe today and what we are defending here in Europe, we are also able to offer to those around us. So much. I don't think it's gonna help the strict creation of demarcation lines between East, West, North and South.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u65	Thank you, Minister. I have two factual points here. I'll admit one. I will interrupt the meeting at 13 o'clock because the afternoon meeting will continue under the Rules of Procedure Act. Now, then, Mr Martin Novotný, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, you will not hear from me any major historical excursions. I believe that negotiations on the point of the association agreement are essentially about one thing. Among us are those who want to give this country a chance to participate in the world of European values and free trade, conscious of all the excesses that are happening in Ukraine. I think there will also be people who think that Ukraine does not have this chance, and who perceive it as a stronger moment to respect the sphere of influence of one country that is east of Ukraine. That's all this debate is about. I think it is our duty to give Ukraine a chance to those who want to respect the perception of the world through the sphere of influence. Unfortunately, there are still many of us like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u67	I thank Mr Novotný and I am interrupting this point. We'll continue at 2:30 p.m. with oral interpelations. It is interrupted when, in the general debate, the President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura and duly signed up for the debate, Karel Fiedler and Mrs Zelienková, is signed up for the factual remark. Then the negotiations will continue when we open this point. In the meantime, thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am interrupting the meeting by 14.30. I also thank the Ambassador of Ukraine in the Czech Republic for his participation in today's meeting. I think, given how well he speaks Czech, he listened very carefully to the whole debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u68	I remind the members of the Sub-Committee on Prisons of the meeting at 13.15 pm in the Chamber of Procedure number 23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u69	For the stew. Even after the interruption of the meeting of the afternoon apology, and this is Mr Rais from 14.30 to 17.30, from 14.30 to 18.00, Mr Karel Fiedler and Mr Leo Luzar from 11.30 apologizes from today's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-02-12-ps2013-025-07-011-079.u70	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Before we go to the Prime Minister's oral questioning and then to the members of the government, let me read the apologies that have gathered for me. First of all, the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from all this day, from the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies due to duties in the department. Mr Josef Nekl apologizes today from 14:30 for health reasons. Mr Martin Plíšek also apologizes today from 14:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa apologizes today from 14:30 to 18:00 for work reasons. Mr Jaroslav Foldyna apologizes from 14:30 on health grounds, and Mr Petr Kořenek apologizes today from the afternoon meeting for reasons of work. That was an apology.
