ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 32nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I called this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 46 Members and the invitation, have been distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on 23 September. I beg you all to sign up with your cards, stating that the replacement cards and their numbers are valid as they were reported at the 30th meeting. Same goes for apologies. We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting, and I propose that we designate Mr Adolf Beznoska and Mr Václav Klučka as the verifier. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. This is not the case, so we will decide by vote. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees that the verifiers be Mr Beznoska and Mr Klučka. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 1, registered is 121, for 115, against 1. This proposal was adopted. At the same time, I beg you to make one more decision by voting. At the request of the Minister of the Interior, I suggest that the House give its consent to the participation and presentation of the Director General of the Czech Post to the state enterprise Martin Elkán. We must also decide that by voting. I'll ask who agrees to let the Director General speak at our meeting. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 2, registered is 125, for 116, against 1. This proposal was adopted and we therefore agreed to the speech by the Director-General. We will therefore now proceed to the establishment of the 32nd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application, therefore the amendment or addition of the agenda cannot be proposed and the programme cannot be extended. Before we vote, with priority rights, Madam Vice-President Jaroslava Jermanová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me just briefly reiterate why we have asked for this extraordinary meeting to be convened to deal with public contracts in the Czech Post and to set up a Chamber of Investigation Commission. During August, information and speculation on handled orders and security threats to this strategic state enterprise began to emerge in the media. Because of the situation in the Czech Post... [[I'm asking for peace in the hall! Thank you.]] The situation in the Czech Post even brought together the Bureau of the Security Council of the State, from which we do not have more information as Members. Czech Post employs more than 30 thousand. People, he's got nearly 4,000. branches across the country and annual turnover around 19 billion. Although last year she ran a surplus of 241 million, she is asking the Ministry of Finance for another 1.7 billion. That is why we are interested in how this strategic enterprise manages public funds. Czech Post, as we know, provides services that affect the life of virtually every one of us. For this reason too, our citizens should know how the post is actually run, and should not be relied solely on mediated information and media speculation. We should all also be interested - and I believe that we will learn this during the debate at this meeting - how the Czech Post orders, regardless of who and what companies the contracts relate to. According to us, mail management is transparent, contracts with suppliers are not made public by the company, and since the supervisory board is bound by confidentiality, nobody has access to information except the Ministry of the Interior. We are all so dependent only on information and media speculation, which focuses only on some cases and others leave them alone because they are not so attractive to them. For this reason, we want mail orders to be investigated by the system to fall to whom, at least in the last ten years. That is why the ANO and other Members also asked us not only to convene an emergency meeting and to inform the Government about the situation in the Czech Post, but also to set up a commission that, in cooperation with the law enforcement authorities and the Czech Post administration control offices, would check. I believe that the agenda for this extraordinary meeting will be approved and that the debate will be conducted correctly, factually and emotionally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-000-000.u3	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. With priority rights, the Minister of the Interior wants to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-000-000.u4	Good afternoon, early evening. honourable Members, Mr President, I have finally learned why we are meeting today at an emergency meeting of Parliament. So now I am very surprised, because the Czech Post has a supervisory board, which includes a representative of the ANO movement. Czech Post has management, which includes a representative of the ANO movement. And I therefore beg that the Czech Post would give some doubts to the new management that it would manage transparently. That's not what we're talking about in the media mess. I would also like to draw the House's attention to the different submissions of some media on the case you have witnessed. You could see how some media reported completely differently, how they gloried some people. And I think that's what we should be talking about today. I am in favour of approving the agenda for the meeting, and after this speech, I am completely in favour of the commission of inquiry being approved, and for the opposition to go to its forehead, let all these things be investigated by the system fall to whom. But please, nicely, let's not banish a state enterprise with these claims that just aren't true. Czech Post is going through the audit system, the audits are public. This is not about the Czech Post being a non-transparent enterprise. From my point of view, what has been said offends 33,000 honest employees who go to work every day and provide public service to the Czech state. Please, let's be very careful what we're saying here. And don't be mad at me, I'll just defend the mail! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am not surprised what the YES movement has done here through the Vice-President. That's true, when they write some media - I don't even know, so I think there should be a police president here to say whether Agrotec or some of Babiš's companies are saving or not, but I just don't know what you're doing here. [[18.20 hours]] You're the government coalition here. If you know of any crimes in the past, your civic duty is to file appropriate criminal charges. Here you are a government coalition that reigns almost two years from now. And after two years, you'll probably release a smoke screen on some past I don't know about... And if you know anything, you're supposed to tell the police. But what you're doing here, that is. At the time when Babišův's company, its statutory body, the chairman of the club of the ANO movement, was subjected to an investigation, so it is non-standard and will be a parliamentary committee of inquiry? You don't trust law enforcement agencies? After all, the commission of inquiry should be created at the moment when it is clear that some state institutions are failing. And you're saying that the police are failing by taking the liberty of accusing or investigating Agrotec, and it's about to be a parliamentary committee? Is this a live case? Or do you want to go back to the past? If you know anything, you should have said so and you should have filed the relevant criminal charges. And if you don't, I guess it's wrong for the police to take the liberty of accusing you. I really don't know what you're playing for the Matrix. And I'll watch carefully what you come up with. But really, when a coalition partner here accuses an institution in the Department of Coalition Partner of the Interior Minister that it's non-transparable... I mean, you guys are really acting in a way that's completely... I don't know what to say. You've been playing with this Matrix country, which hasn't been the same since 1989. And perhaps someone should investigate your past since 1990, Mr. Babiš, Mr. Faltýnek and others! So I don't really know what kind of Matrix you're playing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-01-ps2013-032-01-000-000.u7	I'm registering a request from the Chairman of the ANO Club. I will ask whether he wants to take advantage of the priority right now, or whether he will not speak until the debate if the programme is approved. In the debate, okay. In that case, if no one else applies, we would proceed to the establishment of the agenda as submitted in writing to you. So we're going to vote. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the draft programme as it was presented on the invitation. Who's against it? The vote has number 3, registered is 130, for 109, versus 8. I am of the opinion that we have agreed to the draft programme. We're going to go to the first point and that's
