ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u1	117. Government bill amending Act No. 58/1995 Coll., on insurance and financing of exports with state aid and on supplementing Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and Act No. 21/1992 Coll., on Banks, as amended / House print 352 - 3rd reading I ask the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, who is Mr Stanjura, to take up positions at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are in the press 352/4 delivered on 14 June and the resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered as press 352/5. I will ask the Minister if he wishes to speak before the debate is opened. He doesn't want to. In that case, I am opening up a debate. I'm asking, who's joining the debate? The rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u2	Thank you for the floor. I spoke about the fact that this bill breaks bank secrets, so I will not repeat myself, I said so at first and second reading. However, I have here the position of legislation, which basically says that the Committee on Budgets did something that it should not have or could not have done. I'll try to explain. We have adopted legislative technical arrangements in the context of the discussion of this press after second reading in the Committee on Budgets. According to the legislative opinion, and I have no reason not to believe him, a legislative technical comment can only be read during the third reading, it cannot be on the committee after the second reading. So those who want legislative technology must read it now in the debate, which is why I draw attention to it. Secondly, the position of legislation. Legislation has great doubts that this is a legislative technical comment or amendment and that it is not a substantive change. I'll explain. The change is not dramatic, it is that the words 'not to exceed' are changed to 'not to exceed'. However, I warn you that as it is and as it has been approved by the Guarantee Committee, this is not a voteable one. So if someone insists on changing the two words 'not to exceed' to 'does not go beyond', first of all, they must read it now, then, after the debate, the House would have to decide by vote that this is a legislative technical amendment, and only if the House had decided that, despite the doubts of legislation, we would have just voted on the legislation itself, and then we would have followed the procedure approved by the Guarantee Committee, with the fact that the vote of legislative technical, which is erroneously stated in the budget committee resolution, would of course not be repeated. So much for an explanation. I say, the change is not dramatic, but the legislation has this opinion, there is no reason not to believe it. I think if the word "doesn't exceed" stays there, virtually. "can't exceed" instead of "doesn't exceed" that nothing changes, that it's just a little game with words and a semantic understanding of the meaning of those two words, but I'm saying it the way it is so I don't surprise anyone until the vote and say it's unvoteable. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u3	Yes, thank you, rapporteur. I'm sure we'll have to deal with it somehow. Mrs Černochová also apologizes from 16.00 today, I presume to the end of the day, because of participation in the commemorative act. We are in the debate, I ask who is reporting for the debate. Really? Properly. Please. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize that I may not succeed, but I would like to have a clear conscience, which is why I propose that this press be returned to committees for second reading, committees for discussion. The rapporteur has already said that thing here, which has been discussed many times and which I consider extremely sensitive and dangerous - that it is a standard that breaks banking secrets. Of course, the petitioner may make a number of good reasons for this, but there are also many good reasons to honor that banking secrecy is something that is unstoppable, and that the objective pursued by the petitioner is also fulfillable in ways other than not to honor banking secrets. When you think about it, in the last few months, there's too many things that are breaking something. When we discuss them separately, when we discuss each thing separately, yes, there are always a number of good arguments about why we have it there. Register of accounts, register of offences, electronic sales log, bank secret breach, security services access to tax returns. When we always discuss this as a separate case, there are a lot of reasons for and, of course, a lot of reasons against. I'm begging you, if you wouldn't try to think about discussing this at once. Then we'd suddenly find out that in the last six months that all-embracing state wants to know everything about us, it wants to control everything, it wants to see everything. Someone doesn't mind. I remember Mr Bublan, when he was still an MP, today he is a senator, so he said, "I don't mind being bugged. I'm a decent person, so let everyone listen to me. - Well, it bothers me, because private conversations are my privacy, and I don't think the state has to control everything at all costs, even what it doesn't have to. [[10.20 hours]] The state is service. The state is here for the citizen, not citizens for the state. It's too much. It's been too much in the last many months. The state is trying to control every citizen and make everyone dependent on something. Breaking banking secrets is another taboo issue that's supposed to be broken through by the government coalition's decision, and with it again, a piece of freedom and a piece of democracy in this country will be broken. Please, let's go back to second reading and talk about whether we really want to break bank secrets and open another gate to the fact that some of the brakes and safeguards of democracy are untouchable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u5	Thank you. There is a factual remark from Mr Volný. [[The Minister is demanding words because he applied earlier.]] Yes, I'm registering you, Minister, but a factual point takes precedence if you wish to exercise the right of priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use this technical comment to make legislation and read the legislative technical amendment to this press, namely to § 4a para. 3 instead of "not to exceed', the word "not to exceed' shall be replaced by the word "not to exceed'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u7	Thank you. That was legislative technical. Now the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to explain so you don't feel like it's about breaking bank secrets. We are presenting the amendment on the basis of the SAO's conclusion and indeed the legacy of the Czech Export Bank and EGAP is very bad for us and is beginning to appear dramatically in our budget. So if we have inherited the Czech Export Bank, which has risky loans of 42 billion, and we don't know what will happen to them, then it really is a very unpleasant legacy for our budget, which is why I think that in some specific cases the Ministry of Finance should have the right to get acquainted with some of these credit cases when it is responsible for the budget. It's not some kind of bullying or breaking bank secrets, but it's budget money, and I think it's logical that we should be able to actually be specifically interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u9	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u10	Thank you for the floor. That's a tough speech, then. The Minister will come forward and say: Ladies and gentlemen, as long as you do not feel that this is about breaking bank secrets, it is not about bullying, it is not about breaking. Well, it's not bullying, that's not what I said. But it's about breaking bank secrets. And I admire your ability, Minister, to say that this is not the case when your own material informs the House that this is about breaking banking secrets. It's just unbelievable! Excuse me, Minister, do you have any idea what you're presenting? You are presenting material that informs the Chamber of Deputies that banking secrecy should be broken. For reasons I understand. I didn't say it was bullying either. I am merely saying, and I claim all the time to discuss this material, that it is possible to fulfil the motive, which is based on the SAO's findings and the logical efforts of the Ministry of Finance to keep an overview of some of the issues in the Czech Export Bank, at least those where it intervenes by public funds - I do not question that - that is all right - that it is possible to do so by other mechanisms than to stop honoring banking secrets as an unbreakable barrier. Then you come in and say, "This isn't about breaking bank secrets." Well, at least read the damn material you're presenting to us! That's where you say it's about breaking bank secrets! And maybe while we think about whether we can do this another way, and you can finally read what you've presented to us, we could find a good solution at second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u11	Furthermore, I have no application for the debate, so I am ending it. Let me ask you about the final words. The Minister doesn't want to. The rapporteur wants to. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u12	Thanks for the word. I mean, I suggest we return the press to second reading. Firstly, doubts as to whether or not this is a legislative technical change persist. Even if we overrule them, then it is very likely that the Senate will return it to us anyway for these legislative technical reasons, so perhaps it is better to return it to second reading, to load it at second reading as a standard amendment. Nothing against the content of the amendment. I don't really think there's anything controversial about that. On the other hand, the state here says: standard mechanisms are failing, because both the Czech Export Bank and EGAP own the state. He has his own people there who are on the Supervisory Board who can access all the information they need. And we here, beyond that, recommend breaking bank secrets. And the worst part is the salami method. It's the worst first time. If we do this for the first time, I can imagine many other ministries and many other good reasons why they will want it too. And they're also going to say, "We, according to the SAO's findings, or according to this or something's been committed here, and we'd like to have a bank secret broken down too." And when we say, no, that's not possible, that's something sacred, so they say, well, wait, when you had 352 House press last year, you've already cracked it for Treasury officials once. This means, consider once again the proposal to return to second reading. Firstly, he could resolve the dispute, if I may say so strongly, whether it is a legislative technical change or not, and maybe we will once again have the opportunity to debate whether banking secrets really need to be broken. Whether it is not good for representatives of the State who operate in the supervisory boards of the two institutions concerned to carry out these duties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u13	Thank you. So I believe that... [[Someone from the right is asking for a word.]] With priority rights? After the end of the debate. Please. No. That was the final word. But of course you have priority rights. Okay. In that case, I believe that we should first vote on President Kalousek's proposal to repeat the second reading, then we would vote on the motion to reject the second reading, and then we would follow the procedure proposed by the rapporteur or propose the rapporteur. He's already indicated it, but maybe here, please tell her the whole story.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u14	I agree with the Prime Minister. First vote on repetition, then, if necessary, rejection. Should this fail, we would vote on the fact that the proposal that Mr Volný has read is a legislative technical change. Yes or no. If we did, we would vote on it in terms of content. And then we'd be following the recommendations of the guarantee committee as they all have in the press 352/5. And if necessary, I am able to repeat this very simply, because there are not many amendments. This means that the first vote would be on the proposal B1 to B5, then on the proposal under letter A, which is the proposal from the Guarantee Budget Committee, and then on the draft act as a whole. I would recommend that we vote on this procedure as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u15	Yes, given that there are a number of not-so-standard or common proposals, I'm going to put it to a vote. Whoever agrees with this procedure, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the procedure proposal? Voting time is 209, registered 176, for 163, versus 1. The draft procedure has been adopted and we will therefore proceed as we have now agreed. This means that we will now vote on the proposal to repeat the second reading made by President Kalousek. The rapporteur's opinion? [[Positive.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Disagree. [[10.30 hours]] Very well, then, we will vote. If you agree to repeat the second reading, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 210, registered 175, for 67, against 76, the proposal has not been adopted. We'll proceed with the motion to dismiss. I'm asking for an opinion. [[Member Stanjura: The position of the guarantee committee, not the rapporteur, to make it clear, is negative. Minister Babiš: Disagree.]] Initiating the vote, I ask who is in favour of the motion to dismiss, press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 211, registered is 176, for 36, against 90, the proposal has not been adopted. We will now proceed to the vote, in which we will decide whether or not the proposal tabled by Mr Free is a legislative technical regulation. I don't think the committee's opinion is on this. [[Member Stanjura: The rapporteur's opinion is negative. I didn't hear it.]] Opinion on whether or not Mr Volný's proposal is a legislative technical regulation. [[Minister Babiš: Agreed.]] I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that Mr Volný's proposal is a legislative technical regulation, that he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 212, registered as 176, for 91, against 36, the proposal was adopted. I therefore note that the House has decided that Mr Volný's proposal is a legislative technical regulation. And now we will vote on this legislative technical regulation. That means whether we agree with her or not. There's still an application for check-out. New registration, please. I ask the rapporteur to give a factual opinion as to whether he agrees with this legislative technical regulation. [[Member of Stanjura: Opinion positive. Minister Babiš: Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the legislative technical change, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting 213, registered 166, for 120, against 4, legislative technical regulation was adopted. We would therefore now vote on proposals B1 to B5. Isn't that right, rapporteur? [[Member of Stanjura: Yes, that's right. The Committee's opinion is positive. Minister Babiš: Agreed.]] We will therefore vote with one vote on all five. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting 214, logged in 167, for 164, no one opposed. This proposal has also been adopted. Now, therefore, the proposal under point A, which is the amendments that are in the resolution of the guarantee committee. I'll ask for an opinion. [[Member of Stanjura: The opinion of the Committee is positive. Minister Babiš: Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with these amendments to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting 215, registered 167, for 164, no one opposed. This proposal was adopted. I believe we voted on all the amendments. [[Member of Stanjura: That's right.]] That's right, thank you. So I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 58/1995 Coll., on insurance and financing of exports with state aid and on supplementing Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and Act No. 21/1992 Coll., on Banks, as amended by House Press 352, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Opinion, please. [[Member of Stanjura: The opinion of the Committee is positive. Minister Babiš: Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 216, registered is 167, for 99, versus 34. This proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that we have given our consent to the bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister and I will pass on the management of the meeting. And the Prime Minister Kalousek has the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me. I didn't mean to hold off on the vote. But after all, allow me a few sentences on what we just approved. The legal certainty of the population as well as the legal certainty of investors looking for a safe investment port in one or another country include several key principles: property protection, banking secrecy, protection of personal data, non-use of information in trade and I could list further. But banking secrets definitely belong to one of the first three places. It is a principle that we have broken today, 25 years after November 1989. We have broken it for a certain purpose and for certain officials, but it has ceased to be a holy rule, it is broken, I fear very soon it will be broken further. I have no choice but to borrow a quote from a dead cat from her favorite writer Karel Michal, who, after all, knew the solution to every problem. The problem - perhaps that will be close to President Faltýnek - has been solved by the problem of how to avoid molding during crop cultivation. I mean, they're making up different kinds of herbicides, I don't think, but, uh, Fungicides, thank you. [[A Member of the Faltyneks from the place suggests: Fungicides.]] Different sprays. The dead cat had the perfect recipe. Burn old grain, don't grow new grain. No molds can then occur. It's just that there's more harm to be done than there is to be done. That's exactly what you did today. Yes, you have found a solution to the SAO's findings and the problem that the Minister of Finance felt, but in doing so, you have done infinitely more harm than good, which, unfortunately, you have been doing almost all the time lately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-08-ps2013-029-06-004-117.u17	Good morning. Thank you to President Kalousek. We will continue with the next item on our agenda. It's...
