ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u1	139. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, three responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will therefore now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. The first is the Minister of Justice Helena Válková, who responded to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's interpelation on the opinion on providing copies of the criminal file to the injured party. Interpelation, together with replies, shall be submitted as a printing of 381. I am opening the debate and giving the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, it is really not appropriate to have a smile on my face here, because it is a sad answer to an even sadder question that I have repeatedly answered. This case has been with me since my entry into office. Personally, I myself believe, like Mr Ondráček, that everything was wrong in this matter from the very beginning, and I am quite behind it. Unfortunately, the evidence that has been collected is completely inadequate, evaluated, although repeatedly, does not offer a sufficient objective picture of the entire tragic event. I certainly understand the deceased's parents, and I know that they will continue to try to find out the truth, even if it becomes more difficult from time to time. To introduce the whole story once more for the recapitulation for the less dedicated. On 27 August 2014, Mr Ondráček, who asked me about the procedure of the District Attorney's Attorney Matesová for Prague 6 in proceedings consisting of not providing a copy of the video footage of the crime scene where the deceased Petr Stráník, a young man, was found, was therefore no man of mature age, but about thirty years old. In reply of 18. 9. 2014 I informed the Member that the Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Prague assessed the objection to the procedure of the supervisory prosecutor as an incentive to supervise the activities of the lower prosecutor's office and will deal with it only after the file material has been returned to the Supreme Prosecutor's Office after the inspection of the completed case. There I asked to carry out a check on the completed matter in connection with the request of the deceased's parents. On my request, the Municipal Attorney General, Dr Hercegová, sent additional documents on the basis of which I informed the honourable Member that the procedure for Dr Matesová had been reviewed in the context of the supervision carried out under the current, not entirely optimal law on the prosecutor's office - even on this point - with the conclusion that there was no error and that for this reason the complaint of the spouses of Stráníkův, the parents of the deceased, was postponed as unfounded. That's been happening again and again. All the writing material relating to the death of Petr Stráník was reviewed by the Supreme Prosecutor, and this was done in the context of the final examination of the case - I asked them to do so - again with the conclusion that there were no indications that the death of Petr Stráník within the meaning of the Criminal Code could be qualified as a criminal offence, or again with the conclusion that it was a suicide. That's what this is about. The dispute is held - the parents of the deceased point out all the circumstances of the case that suggest that there was foreign guilt. The police and prosecutor's conclusions repeatedly argue that such doubts do not exist here and that the evidence provided provides sufficient evidence to conclude that there was no foreign fault and that this is indeed a suicide. The Supreme Public Prosecutor thus agreed with the conclusion of the District Public Prosecutor for Prague 6 and the Municipal Prosecutor in Prague. [[9.10 hours]] In response to the request for a video recording of the crime scene, I informed the honourable Member, on the basis of the observations of the Municipal Prosecutor in Prague, that the surviving parents were repeatedly allowed to see it. In the case at hand, the crime scene examination is recorded in a protocol form, with the video recording only performing an additional technical function in relation to this protocol act. Playback of the alert may be justified only by the relevant procedural need of the injured party. I, too, was of the same opinion that such a relevant need for the victim was here. The D.A. was of the opposite opinion. As Dr. Hercegová informed me in her application, the evidence proposals of Stráníkův's spouses were respected and their comments were duly assessed. Their further procedural authorisation was also fully respected under the ongoing procedure, including the possibility of obtaining a crime-scene examination report, the conditions for meaningful use of the relevant video recording, since any expert examination which can be considered relevant from the point of view of the investigation and assessment of the case in question has been carried out. For the reasons set out above, the alert has not been issued. I have brought this to the attention of the Member, and he has, and I must say, I do not blame him at all, subsequently expressed his opposition. Madam, honourable Members, in connection with this case, I remind you, and I would like to draw your attention when we discuss, perhaps one day, the proposal for a new law on the Public Prosecutor's Office that, unlike other Ministers of Justice, the Member States of Europe do not have any supervisory authority over the system of prosecutors in such cases and do not involve them in their operation. It is also not for me, except for disciplinary misconduct or suspicion of disciplinary misconduct, to evaluate the decisions of individual prosecutors. In conclusion, I must say that all I could do and now I have done to dispel doubt about the procedure of the District Attorney for Prague 6 and the Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Prague and, of course, in view of the human aspect of the entire case, where the issue of the record, which no one could mind, even if it were unnecessary, is requested by the parents of the deceased, I have asked Dr. Bradáčová to carry out supervision of the State's administration - that is another institute, supervision - which has already been carried out by the Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Prague over the procedure of the District Attorney for Prague 6. At this point, I expect her statement, and then I will inform you how the Chief Attorney General has decided on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm filing an application for a debate, so you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u4	Hello, Mr President. I expected to be able to speak first, it didn't happen, Madam Secretary was faster. Never mind, at least you're partly familiar with the case, and we can talk about it a little bit more professionally. The case has a longer genesis. I first intersected the Minister orally, namely 12. 6. in this matter, and the Minister replied to me, you can find it on the screen record that, as decided by the police authority, by virtue of the supervisory prosecutor's office, I do not consider this to be the right course of action in this matter. It does not mean that such a course of action is illegal. So police authorities, prosecutors work badly, it's not the right procedure, but it's probably the right procedure, which is in accordance with the law. We discussed the matter several times, and of course the result of the oral interview was that the Minister had promised - I quote: "I can promise myself that in this particular case I will discuss it with the supervising prosecutor, so that the next time the matter gets on the table, it will proceed in a different way." Based on this, the parents of the deceased Petr Stráník again requested a police authority to acquire a video footage that was taken by the police authority in connection with a crime scene investigation. [[issue]] Again, the police department replied that it would not issue such a record. The reasons that followed - the parents of course complained and had to judge the matter by the supervisory prosecutor, meaning the District Attorney for Prague 6. The police authority justifies its reasoning by taking into account the fact that the deceased was - and now listen, it may concern each of us, as the police authority and the prosecutor interprets law. Taking into account the fact that the deceased was married, therefore his parents are not the only victims, many of the materials, including photographs taken in the past from the file in the copy, were subsequently used for publication in the media, taking into account the provisions of Section 8b of the Criminal Code, the rights of the deceased's wife should be preserved. For that reason, I continue to reject the acquisition of that copy of the crime scene examination. I have told my parents, the agents and so on in writing. The prosecutor, who reviewed the matter again, made this statement to the parents. Furthermore, taking into account the fact that the deceased Petr Stráník was married and, as I quoted earlier, this copy of the video footage cannot be published to the parents of the deceased Petr Stráník. This means that the victim's wife is probably the only victim, even though they might be in divorce proceedings, and there was only one stamp missing, where it would be that the deceased's wife had nothing to do with him anymore. On the other hand, the deceased's parents are, and no matter what, there's always blood kinship. And take which one of you, and most of you are parents, so no matter what happens to your child, no matter what goes beyond the law, you will always subconsciously protect him because you are his biological parents. Here, the law enforcement authority tells you that you're actually on the other side because your son took the liberty of marrying someone, and that you probably don't have the right at this time. There's no such code of conduct. Paragraph 65 of the Penal Code says, I don't know if I'm gonna quote it correctly: The accused and so on, the injured, his agent has the right to look into the file, make statements, notes and, at his own expense, make copies of his files or parts of it. The second paragraph of this paragraph states: In the preparatory procedure, a police authority or a prosecutor may, for serious reasons, refuse to do so. [[9.20 hours]] The criminal preparatory procedure shall be a section from the date of notification, the initiation of criminal proceedings until the charge has been notified or the final decision has been taken. In this case, such a decision has been repeatedly given. It is a resolution of the police authority pursuant to § 159a para. One, that deed is not a crime. By issuing such a resolution, or by acquiring legal power, this preparatory procedure was terminated. Therefore, there is no reason for us to proceed in the end. 2, that is to say that, for serious reasons, a police authority or a prosecutor may refuse such a matter by means of a preparatory procedure. If you look at the interpretation of § 65 para. 1 of the Penal Code, so it says what is meant by the file. The file shall mean not only the criminal file, but also all the items belonging to the file. The police authority here justifies that the video they took on site was not part of the crime scene examination, so-called auxiliary material with which the police department worked on the site. Maybe he was, maybe he wasn't. But if it was, then how is it possible that from this video there are photographs in the original file that are part of the file material? In that case, such video has become part of the file and is to be stored. Police of the Czech Republic have many binding instructions or instructions from the Police President, which regulate the activities of police authorities at the scene of the crime. One such instruction is the binding instruction of Police President No. 100, I don't know for a year now, to criminal-technical activity, where there are also references to the crime scene examination, photo documentation, video capture and other things. The video shall be recorded in accordance with this binding instruction. The video is to be uncut, in no edited form based to be able to work with it at any time. In our case, this video footage in the original was supposedly lost by the police, there is only a modified, edited copy, and even such a copy cannot be issued. It can't be released! Because it's probably not part of the file, virtually. We don't have the right victim, which are the parents. And you know what happened next? The parents contacted the wife, the wife gave such consent. It is written consent that the wife agrees to give the video to the police authority. It won't. It won't! And you know why he doesn't? Because there's an answer here, I'm not mad at the Minister, because she just signed what they had prepared for her there, and that's the reason that all the relevant things were provided, etc. - Yes, if they did, it could also be that such a video could serve as evidence, but proof that police authorities or law enforcement authorities are violating the law. And it could be evidence against those holding such evidence. How is one able to obtain evidence that could serve against a state authority? Unfortunately, we can't do that in our state. Of course, the parents of the deceased will never accept death. We can have any legal norms, we can have a law on victims of crimes, we can talk at the police academy about victimization, subsequent victimization, and other things, but what good are standards if we don't follow them and are not respected by those who should enforce the legality? The parents detailed the entire material processed by the police authority and asked the Regional Directorate of Police of the capital city of Prague, the Department of Internal Control, for an assessment of the comments they have on the whole course of the investigation. Things were summed up in ten basic blocks, although then the answers were still coming. The Internal Control Department, I must say, has dealt with things precisely and in ten things that he has examined, says: For point 3 - manipulation of evidence of betting and financial investigation. Your objection in this case is reasonable. The conduct or procedure of the police authority, specifically designated, is contrary to Article 25 of the binding directive of the Police President. 100/2001 on criminal-technical activities. - First mistake. Point 4 - refusal to issue a copy of the digital photo documentation and video footage from the crime scene. In this context, it should be noted that video documentation of the crime scene examination is not included in the crime scene examination report. The circumstances of the acquisition, handling and subsequent archiving of video footage of the crime scene have already been investigated by the local department in the past and an error has been noted in the absence of the original recording and, at the same time, the absence of the necessary records according to the binding order of the police president. - So again evaluated: bad police work. Item 5 - suicide note. The police authorities said that the suicide note - or the suicide note - was not spoken of because the father of the deceased and his brother were present at the scene. And that's due to a bad mental condition. When the crime scene was examined, the police department withheld such a letter. Parents didn't inform about the suicide note until after questioning. I note that the suicide note was written on the computer and was not signed. The superior officer who carried out the inspection of the file carried out so precisely a check of the file that he wrote an official record - now I have to find it, I'm sorry... here, yes: As part of the inspection of the investigation file, he made a report, where he mentions in the description of the current situation... etc., in the description secured he declares his signature on the suicide note as genuine, that is to say the deceased's signature. This is stated by a senior officer in the rank of Major who checked the file. Unfortunately, he was wrong because the signature wasn't on the suicide note, but it was on the deposit card from some other thing. We doubt in this administrative error that the Major has overlooked that the signature is not a farewell letter, but unfortunately only on something else such as a deposit note. We've been to point 5, we're proceeding to point 7. Where I don't mention it, it doesn't mean there's no fault, but there's police supervision, which means exercising supervision, mentions that it's not their place, and they refer either to the state's attorney or to GIBS. The lieutenant's indiscretion - an official record of the crime scene. The lieutenant's procedure shall be the subject of a breach of Article 21 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) (f) mandatory instruction No 30/1990 on the performance of tasks in criminal proceedings, and in breach of § 36 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 200, issued by a shredder order. Missed the crime scene by the detective. Point 8. The protocol erroneously indicates the start of the exit, its start of examination is 25. 9:00 p.m., but the body was found at 24. 9. She's probably gonna bite the day off, but unfortunately for police matters, it's a pretty important date. Conclusion: An infringement of Article 26 (2) of the EC Treaty is observed in the police officer's procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (d) mandatory instruction No 100. Again mentioned. [[9.30 hours]] Distressing the medical autopsy. It's also an excellent thing. Who you were watching last week was a colloquium, because you remember, there were Stodolův cases, there were cases of heparin killers, and with the new Civil Code, we are rapidly running low on autopsies, both medical and judicial. In this case, no judicial autopsy was ordered, so only the cause of death was found. The doctor who dissected the autopsy suspected that death might be related to the conduct of another person. He telephoned the police department and expected that a judicial autopsy should be ordered, which not only finds the cause of death, but can comment on the mechanism for causing individual injuries on the victim's body, and, of course, a police authority, or respectively. an old-fashioned investigator may ask many additional questions that may explain the cause of death. The head of the department, a certain master, lieutenant master, took over the phone, evaluated the matter and said, Doctors, carry on, we don't care about any judicial autopsy, we already know it's suicide. Conclusion: The failure of lieutenant master, name, surname, in this context was not found. Why do we have to find out the cause of death when we already know it, after all, we have a suicide note? Unsigned, not to mention, but actually, we have him today. So we've already concluded, and now, as a police authority, of course, he's headed his investigation. Manipulation of a criminal file, item 10. In the volume marked number one, documents were renumbered by the inclusion of a new document, documents were not left in the original order, etc. The conduct of the investigator is contrary to Article 34a of the binding order, etc. My parents went on, they asked more follow-up questions. Manipulation with phones and incomplete analysis of phone calls. There was a call at the scene, today the parents have an expert opinion in their hand, where about half an hour before the body was found, found by the deceased's father, who called the police, someone tampered with the phone. At a time when Petr Stráník, according to doctors, was at least 24 hours dead. There was an active rejection of two calls, i.e. Not that the phone rang and nobody answered, but someone actively rejected the phone. The matter is not explained by the police authority, it was even found by computer expertise that the investigator was playing with the phone, even making phone calls from this phone, she said that she wanted to secure the phone so that his death would not occur, i.e. batteries to get into it better and do not need to get PIN or PUK to overcome this. The procedure described by the lieutenant is contrary to Article 318 (2) of the Treaty. 1, 2 binding instructions that govern the principles of providing mobile phones, etc. etc. The parents further supplemented, the police authority provided an official record of the consultation with Professor Přemysl Strejc, DrSc, and the internal control authority was so consistent that he called the Honored Professor and he expressed his disagreement with the content of the official record that was based on the criminal file. That's what it sounds like. What it said, I don't know, but the police department seems to have modified the information from the professor so that it would fit in with his progress to postpone the matter. Let's not judge whether this was a crime or whether it was a suicide, that's not our place. That's what law enforcement agencies are for. An investigation has been carried out, a background check has been carried out, and the Minister has rightly mentioned the complaint or observations made by Mr. Attorney General Zeman, who has done a background check on the things that I, too, have given him. They've come to a conclusion. I am not identified with that conclusion, I think it would be fair to give such a file to someone new who is not burdened with access to the matter, whether the police authority or the prosecutor, whether they look at it again, but the law enforcement authorities don't want it anymore - because what if someone new finds out about the lawbreaking? After all, this could go to the law enforcement authority, to the police authority, to the prosecutor in charge, possibly to the supervisor. I cannot be identified with the statements made by the police authorities and prosecutors in that the parents of the victim are not the ones who should have the right to look at the file and make statements, notes and, at their own expense, to obtain a copy of the file. And the fact that they are repeatedly allowed to watch video footage - yes, but it doesn't support the law. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure says: They have the right to look at the file, to make statements, notes and, at their own expense, to take copies of it. Not that they're allowed to see something on the spot, but they weren't allowed to take it. The icing on the cake may be that I have asked the police authority, under Law 106 on free access to information, to issue such video footage to me, because the Supreme Court's judgments are being relied upon, and there are a number of such judgments that in the final case - in the final case, and here is the end of the matter, because a final resolution has been issued - there is no reason for anyone to be able to look into the criminal file, if any. under the Act on Free Access to Information, take copies of it. At present, the police authority mistakenly applies Law 106 to me, replied that I am not a person who has the right to consult the file under Section 65 of the Criminal Code. I probably didn't know it, but let the Director of the Regional Police Directorate in Prague, who signed this, thank you for bringing this to my attention, and that is why they can't release such video footage to me. So this thing is at the Home Office today, where the matter as an appeal body has to be assessed. I wonder how he'll judge it, and it may be that I, who has absolutely nothing to do with this thing, am not damaged, am not related, I'm just interested in the matter, will have to be issued such a record. I believe they won't give it to me anyway. Then I'll intersect the Home Secretary. Maybe the CD gets lost, like a colleague looks like. Yes, that can happen. Friends, isn't this about the pitiful state of our justice, the Police of the Czech Republic, and the fact that we are sitting here and unable to help our parents learn at least in some way about why and under what circumstances their son died? And believe that for the rest of their lives, they will do nothing but search for why they did so, just as you would. [[9.40 hours]] Let us look for ways to help these people, because unfortunately, such cases are increasing, and it was mentioned last week on the colloquium. We can all get into similar gearing sometimes, and then our MP card can be of no use to us, because unfortunately there is no train running through the police and prosecutor's machinery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm registering three applications for the debate. With priority rights, Minister Válková, then Mr Gabal and then Mrs Havlová. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u6	Thank you, Mr President. By your means, I would like to thank the honourable Member, although it may sound paradoxical, for not giving up trying to draw attention to this case. He's been escorting me since February of last year. I spoke to the Stráník's Stráníkův personally. I share not only their human pain over what happened, of course, not in their intensity. I am extremely sorry, especially when I met the file, and as Minister of Justice, I thought I could move it along a little in the right direction. I've come across my powers. But I don't want to make excuses for that, because the tools I have at my disposal have been used and there is one left, and that is legislative. I cannot do much in relation to the police, only to turn to a colleague of the Minister of the Interior, but in relation to the prosecutors, I can. So propose a law that better than before treats the liability of prosecutors for poor quality work. In this regard - and I will now be careful, just as a Member who has worked for many years and partly, although not immediately, is active in the field of police activity, I know that the maladministration and illegal conduct of an institution active in criminal proceedings is very different and has different consequences. At least the wrong procedures - there were several of them. Some of them were named by the MP. Even in an area that I have the opportunity to apply as Minister of Justice, I have taken advantage of everything. At least I hope so, because even on the basis of a personal interview with the Attorney General, he promised me that he would pay special attention to this. However, the honourable Member was right when he mentioned that I would also see special attention in the fact that he would process the examination of the finished matter and arrange for someone who had not yet dealt with the matter and had more objective procedure. The fact that Ms. Attorney General Dr. Bradáčová is currently overseeing the supervision of a city prosecutor who, in my opinion, was not well done is also a matter that she did not have to accept, but accepted. Of course, I cannot predict the results of supervision at present. I think that the proposal for a new law on the State's Attorney's Office would be such a small shift to greater liability for their work and also to the possibilities of deducing if they were to misprogress, not only illegally, their responsibility, because there are several kinds of disciplinary errors. Of course, this will not help the Stráník Stráníkův in solving their case, but for the sake of completeness, I would add that you should know that in this regard we should also use legislative instruments so that similar cases do not end in the future, as it seems this case will end, or by great questioners and unanswered questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u7	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Before we go any further, I'll read the two note cards that came to me. Mrs Marie Benešová apologizes from 9:00 to 13:00. Within 12 hours, Mr Jan Volný apologizes for reasons of work. Another party to the debate is Mr Gabal. Mrs Havlová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I would like to look away from the emotional and human side of the position of both parents and I will be very brief from a slightly different angle. I'm going to give you a few points about this sklendrian because I don't think there's a word of alibiism in here. Firstly, in the given context, we need to look at statistics on the development of the success of a homicide investigation. They are falling and getting worse, and what used to be the pride of our police is becoming a big problem, and this one particular example with its serious doubts about the progress of the investigation shows what might be at the root. In more detailed knowledge of the material content, what my colleague mentioned, I, as a policeman and a non-lawyer, must say that the investigation has progressed in an obvious conflict with elementary logic and facts. But you can't call the procedure stupid. The procedure isn't stupid. The procedure is to manipulate the facts to cover up the fact that someone was lazy at the beginning to do their job responsibly. The obvious contradiction between facts and logic concerns all control mechanisms. I hope that tomorrow we will include the discussion of the Opencard report and look at the work of the D.A. from a different angle, but the impression is very similar. Here, alibiism reigns in a fundamental way among those who are to oversee the work to investigate serious crime. Everyone tells me that they do not have the legal means to ensure that the controls that clearly have to be found in error are able to conclude that the errors have occurred. In a short period of time, I saw so many conclusions about a check carried out that didn't find fault, and yet there was a mistake that I would send a secretary out of my company for such a job. And they're the prosecutors! They're doing it to the superiors! She's doing it to the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps! As a member of the Supervisory Commission, I took the liberty of sitting in it, so I know that, to turn to the General Inspection of the Security Corps. The conclusion was, of course, negative. And now that we're studying the file, and they wouldn't let me in on the file, but I got an offer to meet an investigator informally, and he explains it to me, I said no, so there are mistakes. And someone will conclude that they are not serious enough to draw conclusions. And now we're at the root of the thing. I think that let's not talk about whether or not there have been any mistakes and whether we can still investigate it, I'll leave it to the police, but let's talk about the ability to deduce responsibility towards those people who are not willing to do their job responsibly, so that I don't have to identify myself with what Mrs Stráníková said to me as the first sentence at our meeting: With my experience, I can't believe that we live in a legal state. [[9.50 hours]] I therefore argue that with this experience I feel the need to start doing something really seriously in terms of devoting responsibility to those who do not do so in order to live in a legal state. We do not have equality of citizens before the law, particularly as a result of the activities of judicial and police authorities. And we're responsible for whether we push it or not. And if we don't enforce it, we're here for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mrs Havlová and Mr Schwarz will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, always losing a child is something terrible and especially for that family. I've been through this, too. I attended a seminar held by Mr Ondráček, who dealt with these unexplained deaths. I was pretty shaken up by the results that I learned there, because if a doctor who calls the police that he suspects a crime and asks for an autopsy to be carried out, and he's not allowed to do it from a police officer who's sitting somewhere on the phone at the other end of the Republic and doesn't know what's going on, that's probably wrong. I'm certainly not the only one who the parents of the late husband, Stráník, have turned to. I won't be talking here much longer, because everything in front of me has almost been said. But only some things that haven't been said yet. I will quote from my parents' letter: "The police did not provide proper evidence at the crime scene. She didn't question the neighbors. She had the bank's surveillance tapes destroyed when a person placed money on his son's account at a time when he was no longer alive." Well, that's not possible. And tell me how the police can deal with this kind of thing. There's been a lot of talk about the video footage. And at the end of the day, there's an important thing. Currently, we have new evidence, and I'm following up on phone calls. "There was a person in his apartment who actively refused two incoming calls before the discovery of our son Petr's already stiff body, which is documented by an analysis of police and expert opinion. Still, the police say the calls were terminated by the operator. This claim is based on a call from Captain Hrdlička which is not recorded in the file, nor does he know who he's been calling. Thus, it disproves evidence from a police department that contradicts the suicide version." Finally, and I fully agree with that, they write: "The police do not want to admit error at any cost, they prefer to lose and question the evidence. The police don't mind covering for the killers. According to Professor Strejc, there is a danger that the undiscovered killer will continue to kill. For this murderer, the first murder is always the hardest!" I think that has been said enough here, and I fully agree that we should return to this issue when the Secretary of State has had some results from our Supreme Attorney General... And one more thing to conclude. I mean, we're all sitting here, so we have to get goosebumps, because we find that we have no powers, and even the Minister of Justice has no authority to interfere in such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u11	Thank you, Madame. Mr Schwarz will now prepare Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u12	Good morning, Mr. Vice-President. I'm going to have a hard time talking to Mr. Gabal because I agree with his words. But my colleagues, my colleagues, if I remember correctly, I've been working on a file like this, and I'm gonna watch my colleague Ondráček, so I don't go off with some evaluation stuff. But I just want to draw your attention to one thing. You know why after 20 years in the police force, I'm not surprised that's common? I'll tell you around here. I don't blame you. It's so sad, but I don't blame it. And now specifically. He didn't speak in my opinion, as far as I remember, the penal code, the criminal code, the binding instructions of the police president, so he didn't talk about any uniformed cops from the district department of Cierna pri Cope. He was talking about criminal service, I suppose. There's got to be an investigation into these things, so they're not regular cops. Well, this should get us all excited to start doing something. You know, he wasn't talking about coincidence. It's not possible that the city prosecutor, I'm here for a while, I'm here elev among you, but another problem, H-system was a problem, Opencard, I'll be honest, there was a problem where the city prosecutor signed, and here too. Something stinks, I'm sorry, I'll say it. And if that's how the police work, it's really sad. And the saddest thing is that the secretary really can't do anything about it, because if the police lose proof or her internal control of something happens to say that it's a bad job, then it doesn't go any further, like at GIBS and the like, I've also met it. I'm sorry, I'm gonna put it on the record here: it's coming up in practice. It's not a standard performance. It's full of decent police officers, but what we've heard here today is starting to come close to practice, and I'm sorry. And it's caused not only by this and the previous government, but by the long-term development of how people came to the police, how they worked, how they valued their personnel reserves, they used to call it chutes. I'm so sorry. I want to wake you up with this speech of mys so that we can think about it together, we don't fight here sometimes, even though it's probably part of democracy. But when it hits some of you, I don't mean serious, maybe something simple, maybe they'll rob your house, and the police won't give you any insight into the file, then you'll just start thinking, you'll see. But I lived in it, so I know what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Plzák is now ready for debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess in advance that I do not see much of the issue of police work when I put it that way, but the fact is that the performance of my colleague Ondráček has caused quite a lot of emotion in me. Too škoda the Home Secretary isn't here to tell us anything. And I'll say for myself. I'm a doctor, a surgeon, and even though it's human to make mistakes, we're put in a situation where we can't actually afford to make mistakes, and it's logical, because if we make mistakes, it obviously has serious health consequences for our patients. Sometimes it's so funny when I see some craftsmen working, I always say, if we operate like you guys did, this demographic development in our country is probably going to be a lot worse than we have. But I am concerned that on this issue of the work of judicial authorities, police can also have serious health consequences. Consequences for families, psychological damage etc. When we make mistakes, we are immediately exposed to considerable negative media popularization, which destroys us. We are subject to criminal prosecution, we are subject to considerable cash claims, etc., etc. And I ask, "Where's the balance?" Where is the medialization of bad work in this case? Where's the prosecution, any sanctions? I see a terrible imbalance here, although I think the work in both cases is quite equivalent. I'm quite stunned by it. It's really something we should be dealing with here. I don't know if there's anything I can do to help, but if anyone asks for my help, I'll do my best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next party to the debate is Mr Adámek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u16	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I do not want to speak long. I'm basically like all of you, and it's already been said here, as my colleague Schwarz said, that we're getting chills, I'm sure. For the most part, I want to sign up for what he's saying. However, what my colleague Ondráček said when he spoke. I was wondering if half of what he's saying is true, it's horrible. And to share my opinion with you after all. To some extent, my colleague Schwarz made me, when he said, and I, although not an expert, only a member of the committee of inquiry, he also mentioned that the results led him to believe that some of the things that have been discussed here have become not excesses, but unfortunately, as the people who have spoken here have been in the police for 20 years, they have been a slow practice. And I'm going to put it in the context of the current situation where we're going to release a lot of funds to recruit people, and I'm talking about a global situation in terms of terrorism, and so on, so I have to tell you, it's getting even more chilly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. Mr. Ondráček, Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Let me just get this straight. The Stráníkův's husbands have turned to a number of Members across the political spectrum. I'm in some contact with everyone working on this case, and we've been assigned certain tasks because we don't want to let that thing fall asleep, and we want to make a little bit of a contribution in our own way to making some sort of correction so that there's a shift. It was mentioned that there is a certain slendrian that the work is not correct, the evaluation authorities speak of error but do not derive responsibility from it. That's our problem. We have laws on everything, we have binding instructions from police presidents on everything inside, we have relatively everything well worked out. That's what we said on our colloquium. But unfortunately, we don't keep it. We don't keep it. And if we find out we're not keeping it, we're not doing anything about it anyway. But that's the possibility. In criminal law material, in criminal law we have crimes of abuse of the authority of an official, even in the form of negligence. It's just not the courage to say that such an act is already fulfilling the signs of such a crime. And a colleague named Gabal mentioned that GIBS dealt with such a thing, but he considers that it is not so harmful or dangerous. Apparently, the GIBS has not yet noted that the criminal code does not have the material concept of a criminal offence, but only formal. So there is to be considered whether the facts of the crime have been fulfilled, and if so, the prosecution is to be initiated. For some crimes, there is social harm, which is a sign that replaced material concepts, but is applied to property offences under Title 5. The point is, and we can create what laws we want here - law enforcement, whether criminal, administrative, but also criminal, is unfortunately ruthless, sometimes almost zero. And until we take action in this direction, so that the legal standards that are created here are applied and used, we can work here for days. Anyone who's worked on it and you're working on it or you're helping out on it, I'd be happy to. I'm afraid anybody who's more interested, I've got photos from these places. And what's wrong in there... I think we will be adopting some resolutions that I do not agree with the Minister's reply. It's nothing against you, Madam Secretary. Of course, I know about your helplessness, and we've talked about it many times, but it's a kind of expression of the state by saying, I don't agree with what you've told me, even though we know that there's nothing you can do about it yet, unfortunately. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u19	Thank you. With priority rights, Madam Secretary, then Mrs Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u20	Mr President, of course I see the limits of my competence very clearly on the one hand, on the other hand, I think that there is always a possibility for a person to do something else, so on the other hand, I will welcome you to interpel me again, because I will be able to tell you the result of my efforts to supervise the supervision of the High Prosecutor's Office. And, of course, if it turns out that this surveillance is rejected or has a negative result, I'm looking at other ways to intervene in this case. I don't know if I'm really going to be able to influence their course, but I haven't completely given up when it comes to taking responsibility. So if I have the opportunity to express myself through further interventions, although they are unpleasant to me as Minister of Justice, but as a Member, I consider them very useful and helpful, I am sure that I would be very happy to do so, and I hope that I will also do so responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u21	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs Havlová, then Mr Ondráček, is still in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u22	Colleagues, colleagues, I'm just technical. I would suggest that no vote should be taken on this interpellation, but that it be interrupted until further comment by the Minister, as has been continued in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u23	Okay. Since this is a procedural proposal, I will have to put it to a vote. I am just saying, the second option is to end the debate, to adopt a disagreeable resolution that the Minister will have to answer that repeatedly. There are two options. But we have a procedural motion to interrupt this point. Initiating vote.... [[Several Members are arguing about login/checkout]] I therefore declare this vote to be misguided and I will put it to the vote again. I'm gonna ring the bell to call my coworkers and co-workers from the lobby. I have an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your electronic cards. I will put to the vote to interrupt this point until the Minister has the information from the D.A.'s office. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of interrupting this point. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 31 of the Members present is 101, in favour of proposal 49, against 14. This proposal has not been adopted. In that case, we will continue to discuss this, and before I conclude the debate to adopt the resolution, I ask who else is reporting to the debate. I don't see anyone. In that case, I conclude the debate and ask Mr Ondráček, as proposed by the resolution for the Chamber of Deputies on this reply by the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u24	Perhaps the first point would be that we disagree with the Minister's reply. And if it were possible, the second point is that we ask the Minister to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the opinion of the Supreme Attorney General, Mrs. - excuse me, the Prague State Attorney General, Dr. Bradáčová, on the exercise of supervision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u25	Mr Member, given that we are in written intercessions, the Rules of Procedure allow only the consent or dissenting position to be taken, that is, I can put it to a vote. Everything else will be on how you can deal with the secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u26	Okay, so it's just a disagreeable position. And we'll make a deal with the secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u27	Okay. I will therefore vote on a disagreeable opinion on the Minister's reply. Initiating vote. Who agrees with the dissenting position on the answer? I ask who's in favour. Members present are 112, for proposal 72, against proposal 5. This proposal was adopted. I thank you and end this written interpelation. Thank you, Minister. I am initiating another written interpelation when the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, responded to Mr Petr Bendl's interpelation on the matter of auctions. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as a printing of 383. I am opening a debate to which Mr Bendl is reporting. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I have addressed the Minister of Agriculture with two simple questions concerning the auctions organised by the Forest of the Czech Republic, the auctions called. standing and presentation auctions, which took place this year and will take place in the year... Or took place last year and will take place this year. I asked the Minister about the administration, whether the Czech Forests are organizing the auctions themselves, or if they are organized by someone else. The Minister replied to me that the Forests of the Czech Republic were invited by the Supervisory Board last February to carry out a presentation auction of wood in order to allow participation in the competition for small-scale forestry mining contracts and a wider range of applicants who failed in such large complex contracts, small miners, etc. To this extent, I feel like this is the right thing to do. The Minister says here that, as the auctions are organized, it is a completely transparent method of selling wood with a high degree of reporting capacity for the current market situation, and the Czech Forests expect to realize an annual volume of up to 20 percent of the volume of logging through this system, which is approximately 160 thousand cubic meters of wood, which should be sold through auctions, respectively. by means of a presentation method for the sale of wood. The Minister replied to me that there are essentially two ways in which the auction is under way - one electronic which the les of the Czech Republic are doing with their own forces, and calculate the amount of wood by a method based on the so-called method. volume tables, which are not always accurate, and in an electronic way it is presented that Forests sell such wood. Anyone can log in, or measure whether it really is adequate or not, and can submit their tender under the terms and conditions. So much I think it's absolutely okay, and I think it's a system that can be called transparent. Otherwise, however, it is already the presentation method of the sale of wood, which the Minister does not write very much about. It only says that the presentation auctions are prepared and the auctions are measured by Foresta SG's employees, a company I understand from the answer that organizes this sale for the Forests of the Czech Republic. I am not satisfied with the answer either because I am convinced that the Forests of the Czech Republic can do this as well as the electronic auction system by their own forces. But if somebody else decided to do this job for the Forests of the Czech Republic, it should go through the selection procedure, it should be clear under what conditions someone sells wood for someone. According to my information, Foresta failed the selection procedure. I want to ask the Minister whether it is or not. According to my information Forests of the Czech Republic do not pay anything to Foresta, but anyone who succeeds will pay Foresta. According to my information, it's 50 kroner per cubicle. This year - no, last year, I'm sorry, I still have that year 2014 in my head. Last year, you quote in your reply, about 38,000 ccs were sold this way, and you assume that this year, in 2015, Foresta SG will sell about 160,000 ccs to the Forests of the Czech Republic using this method. Multiplied by 50 crowns, it's not exactly a small amount. And I want to ask you, Minister, is it true that Foresta did not pass the selection procedure? Whether it is true that those participants who succeed in selling wood belonging to Forests of the Czech Republic must pay Foresta for it and how big the amount is. If my information is confirmed that this was not the case, it is the amount in millions of crowns that are running away. And it's a kind of fog created on the outside, that it's actually nothing worth the les of the Czech ČR, but it sells property belonging to the les, and somebody's cashing in some commission for it. I beg your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask the Minister if he will answer with priority rights. That's right. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u30	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues. The questions that have been raised here. I will briefly summarize that the whole system set up by the Forests of the Czech Republic is a system that has been running here for more than five years, with the fact that at this point we are making changes that should lead to the use of wood, logs extracted in the Forests of the Czech Republic being made available to small and medium-sized processors of wood matter in the Czech Republic. Several tools lead to this. One of them is the method of selling wood through auctions, whether it's a presentation or an electronic auction. We plan to sell about 20 percent of the volume of wood produced by our forest administrations in this way. I'll just explain briefly. In the case of an electronic auction, anyone in the territory of the Czech Republic who is interested in buying the wood may, through electronic access to the auction system which runs in the application of Elza soft s.r.o., look at the offers that are there, buy from the environment of his office, or also visit directly the specific location where the wood is standing in the stands, it can, as was said here, measure and submit the offer. Then there's a second system that always requires the buyer's presence on the spot. This is the presentation system where we try to strengthen the position of processors in the region, because not everyone will want to go across the whole Republic to the other end if they want to buy wood through this very presentation system. So it's really targeted at local wood processors. And here, of course, we have an evaluation of the volume of wood available for mining in two ways. One is made by Foresta SG. This system has been running in the Forests of the Czech Republic for the fifth year. I must say that the Forests of the Czech Republic also take control measurements to correct some deviations. The system at Foresty SG is unique. No company in the Czech Republic is able to offer this measurement system at present. The situation is that Foresta SG does not pay the Czech Forests for this service, there was no need to compete with this contract, but for this service the customers pay directly to Foresta SG. It's well-known information, it's paid about 50 crowns from one cubic meter. [[10.20 hours]] So much for an explanation, I guess. When I also asked the current management of the Forests of the Czech Republic, which was not responsible for the creation of this relationship, because this relationship, I say again, began five years ago with the Forests of the Czech Republic, I was told that there was no reason to compete at the time because Forests of the Czech Republic do not pay for this service to Forests. If they have any other ties to it, I have information that there are or in the past there have been some deliveries in the order of hundreds of thousands of crowns possibly, but the competition has never been written on this particular service because the financial relationship is really between the wood buyer and Foresta SG. However, our intention for the future is to gradually reduce the volume of wood sold in the form of electronic auctions in favour of presentation auctions. Here, of course, we will have a debate on how much, in the future, the Forests will be able to secure this service themselves, because we are going the way if we can and we have experts to inhosit these things rather than give them to external companies. So we will see how the situation will develop, but in any case I want to say that here we want to strengthen the space for small and medium-sized processors, especially from regions, whether they are mountain, sub-mountain regions, so that they can buy wood more and more effectively from the Forests of the Czech Republic thanks to these presentations. The expected volume, just for the introduction to the picture, last year 84,000 ccs were sold through the presentation auction system, through the electronic auction system it was 858,000 ccs of wood, so you can see that there is quite a large disproportion. That is why we want to strengthen the system of presentation auctions for the future, given the regionality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u31	Thank you, Minister. The next party to the debate is Mr Martin Novotný. No? Okay. I also have Mr. Jiří Koskuba's application here. [[Not present.]] It's not. In that case, Mr Petr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u32	Thank you for the floor. Yes, Minister, there has been a system of so-called entry for five years. complex orders, but according to my information, and it will probably be the subject of further interpelation on you to prove when you say Foresta SG already has a five-year contract with the Forests of the Czech Republic when you say so. In any case, I will say, the initiation was for the forests of the Czech Republic to behave in this way, it is from February 2014, when the very well-kicked Supervisory Board of the Forests of the Czech Republic has already ordered the les of the Czech Republic and their management to sell more and more wood through the forest. It is certainly positive that the price is better than the electronic way. It is important to consider whether the electronic auction method would not have the Forests of the Czech Republic, because it is not so poor a company that it should not measure the amount of timber sold in the modern way, the method of crop-shaped curves, and at the same time that the Forests of the Czech Republic, if you say that you want to act transparently, demonstrate why it should be the 50-coron commission at a time when Foresta may have been selling, if that is true, some smaller amount of wood moving in tens of thousands of crowns - I think it is wrong and should not be so, but today we are already starting to move in millions of crowns, when small regional wood processors want to get to the wood even outside the large complex orders, and there their price is increased towards the Forest, which has a monopoly in this respect. The State and the Department of Agriculture shouldn't just look at this, and they should adjust this matter. I think that this is not transparent, and I think that the Czech les are able to make this auction their own.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u33	I thank you, Mr Member, and I ask if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Since I see no one and no one is reporting, I am ending the debate and I am now asking Mr Bendl, as suggested by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this reply by the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u34	I, for the sake of the fact that the Minister has not fully explained how it is with Foresta SG, request or propose a disagreeable position with his response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u35	Thank you. We will therefore vote on who is in favour of disagreeing with the Minister's reply. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the dissenting position. Who's against it? We have a vote with order number 33, the Members present are 119, for proposal 15, against 38. This proposal has not been adopted. I thank you and end the discussion of this written interpelation. We'll continue with another one, and it's back to Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka replied to Mr Petr Bendl's interpellation on the issue of public procurement. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the reply as a printing of 384. I am opening the debate and reporting to it by Mr Bendl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I asked the Minister Jurečka to issue a contract for personnel services for the Forests of the Czech Republic, because according to my information, the Czech Forests did not write a tender for the company that helped to choose, regardless of the fact that the Forests of the Czech Republic have a relatively high quality background in terms of personnel equipment in this area or in the field of personnel services. The contract was called. given out of hand. It's 1.92 miles. CZK for the CEO to choose his closest subordinates. The result was that within three days in 1.9 miles. Three people were chosen. A commission was set up in which the Director-General, his subordinate, was the head of the Personnel Department, a representative of the company's non-selection proceedings, then a representative of the University of Forestry and a representative of the Military Forests. If I count simply, it is out of five people one subordinate CEO and one representative of the company who did not undergo the selection procedure chosen by the Director General himself. It cost 1.92 miles. CZK and the closest co-workers selected by the CEO or selected by this commission are former co-workers from CE Wood and classmates - some. [[10.30 hours]] I think that the CEO, the new CEO you selected, who had the competence to choose his closest co-workers, did not have to spend 1.92 miles in this very transparent way. Kč. He could have used the personnel background of the Forests of the Czech Republic and he could have his subordinates, I emphasize the closest subordinates, choose himself. What is already happening in the Forests of the Czech Republic, Minister, is, in my view, a waste of money in this case, and I think you shouldn't have allowed it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u37	Good morning. I thank Mr Bendl. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to briefly recapitulate why this competition at all. It was often, say, a customary right that those key management positions were occupied on the basis of a political key in such enterprises as the Forests of the Czech Republic. I have decided that I do not want to continue in my department anymore and that the Forests of the Czech Republic are absolutely crucial strategic company within my department, and I want them to be in the positions of individual production directors - four positions, the top four positions including the CEO, who is the fifth, top management company. So I want people to be chosen there who are really managerial, professional, humanly the best we can choose. That is why we agreed with the CEO - and it was with my knowledge - that he would proceed in this way, because there was also a very short period of time to change management, and it was agreed that this company would simply be approached. It's a $1.92-mile contract. Kč. It was based on the usual reference prices here in this business, which range from three to four monthly gross salaries of those persons selected in the tender. There were more than 50 applicants. The firm didn't do a job for three days. The company did complete administration of this tender, which means evaluating all the applicants, there were very complex and demanding psychostases, which lasted several hours for all applicants. It wasn't like anyone came to sit for three days. However, I am convinced that this was the right step, because if you are defending and saying that the personnel capacities of the Forests of the Czech Republic, the Personnel Department, have always been at a sufficient level, I am now asking myself why the police are actually coming to us today in the Forests of the Czech Republic, why today - now, a few minutes ago - the Czech Press Agency has published that further accusations will be made. What were the previous people doing there in the top management of the Forests of the Czech Republic? And if you're saying that we wasted money, that it was unnecessary, I'm convinced that it was the right move that only shows up on the results of the management. Between 2013 and 2014, the new management reduced the operating costs of the Forests of the Czech Republic, and this did not decrease investment, we are talking about operating costs of the IT area, legal services, by more than 250 miles. Kč. I dare say that these costs incurred in this tender were very well spent costs. And I think we'll still be surprised at the Forests of the Czech Republic what happened there during the previous agriculture ministers who had this business in their minds and let those things work in the way that it has worked for years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u39	I thank the Minister of Agriculture. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Mr. Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u40	Thank you for the floor. If anyone has done anything that goes against the law, then they should be punished for it. This applies to everyone in every situation. If there is such a thing, Minister, I would ask you very much to publish it, to say who has done what, and to call on the Director General and the Head of the Forests of the Czech Republic to punish the person concerned. I agree with you on that, and I understand that the Minister can't know everything. Anyway, this is where you confessed to wanting it this way. But the result is that the CEO still chose the people he wanted next to him. And I don't blame it on the one hand. So why couldn't it be transparent enough for the CEO to say to himself: I want these people, they are my closest co-workers, I want the forests of the Czech Republic to work. Why does it have to pretend that we're gonna set up a committee where out of five people, the CEO has three, so he's gonna decide who it's gonna be anyway. And we're pretending here for less than two million crowns that the CEO chooses. That seems unfair to me. It would be more transparent for me if the CEO said, "I want these people, I want to trade them, and it's okay, I've saved two million crowns, or I've got enough personnel in there." After all, the commission was the head of the HR department, the entire department, which three days, thirty days, could work to evaluate who was actually going to be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u41	I thank Mr Bendl. Now with priority rights, the Minister, after whom Mr Kučera. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u42	Thank you. Mr President, I do not know when you last worked in the private sector in the last ten years, but if you have any information, you know that really large companies that have, say, comparable turnover and assets like the Forests of the Czech Republic, so standardly top management of these companies makes a tender for these key positions through professional personnel agencies to ensure this. Because this isn't about inviting someone out and picking out a friend, nota bene in a situation where we're talking about agriculture or forestry. You have a virtually limited circle of people here. These people know each other very well, for in agriculture throughout the Republic it is a narrow circle of people who know each other, working in joint companies over the years. I know people who are in Bohemia and Moravia. So it's not about the CEO having to pick a few out of 50 people. He could have done it without the tender, but we wanted to have really professionally committed candidates here, know their psychological profiles, have them subjected to crisis situations. Those job interviews took place from two to four o'clock. You can't think of that as CEO or Director of Personnel. You've got people who write special questionnaires for that. Based on this - I saw the results - the CEO then said yes, these are suitable candidates. He of the 50 people who applied, personally I dare say that he knew thirty to forty, but the point is to have the qualified basis for making the right decision in such a key position as the selection of these four production directors here. So it's a standard process that's going on, and I refuse to claim that the CEO was doing it to make the same decision as he did in the beginning. We wouldn't have to do that. We could have done it, and no one would have said a half word to us. I could have given two political nominations, the Social Democrats one, the YES movement one, and we could have painted. But that's not what we wanted. Maybe often enough, I said it last time, you sometimes judge by the optics of yourself, then you create these hypotheses here. I'd like you to be excused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u43	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kučera now, Mr Bendl after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u44	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I, Minister, had a similar interpellation to you, however oral. I've worked in the private sector my whole life. I've been hiring hundreds of employees over the past 25 years, so I know how these selection procedures are going. What you described here, you described - and, more or less, your words give me the truth about this - such an alibi of yours. That wasn't a tender, that was your alibi. The fact that Director Szórád eventually selected his former colleagues from CE Wood, that's for sure. The tender was really one of your alibi capes to cover it all up. I think it would be perfectly fair and fair if Director Szórád chose his subordinates directly and responsibly and took responsibility for it. So, alibistically, he blames this decision for choosing his former collaborators from CE Wood for a kind of tender and alibistically surrenders - and you with him - your responsibility for handing over the Forests of the Czech Republic to CE Wood workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u45	I thank Mr Kučer, Mr Bendl now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u46	Thank you for the floor. No, I have to respond. Minister, I really organized and made hundreds of tenders for my professional career and selected hundreds of people in different positions. I don't know how many you've chosen at home at your firm, how many competitions you've written and how many people you've really physically chosen. I think it's a little incomparable. But I want to prove on this interview that it was really more of a mist making, because in the finals, the CEO chose himself anyway, and he should have chosen himself from the start. He's got HR. He's got all the capacity. He could have done this thing himself. He didn't have to pick his closest coworkers through the fog, because it ended up like you say. Everyone knows each other there. That's the area where they worked together at CE Wood, after all. So why do I have to keep it a secret, or do I really have to keep it a secret? Or was it really necessary to make it look that way when they were former CE Wood coworkers, that it wasn't really like that, that it was absolutely objective? I would never take that authority from the CEO to make his own decisions, because he's fully responsible. Fully responsible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u47	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, please, Minister Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond to what my colleagues have said before me. I didn't understand the reminder that there was something alibi. I don't recall me or the CEO ever saying alibis: we didn't choose that, the production director, that was chosen by some Bubenic Partners personnel agency. No, it's never been like that, and it's not, and it's not. This agency gave the evidence, said: these are out of 50 people the best candidates according to a certain order, and you make the final decision. And the final decision will be made by the Director-General on the basis of these facts. That's the ratio we've been talking about all along. There's never been an alibi, and there never will be. And if you're talking about him, why don't you give me a quote about when I or the CEO spoke that way alibistically? I beg your pardon. About what Mr Bendl said. You know, I was a CFI from 2002 to January 2014. But in the meantime, I spent eight years in companies with a billion-dollar turnover. Well, I'd just like to point out that you have this information, too. We've organized a lot of competitions there - and I'll ask you to have so much fun through this microphone, thank you for some standards. [[unintelligible comment from the right]] And I'd like to add, "Principally, it bothers you here, doesn't it?" Does it bother here that these people have been in office for ten months, they're putting the business in order, the business is prospering, it's cutting costs, it's record profit, record investment, it's starting to take care of the proper economy, it's creating a positive climate in the sector? People aren't being bullied, it's starting to work, does that bother us? Or maybe we're looking for some excuses to find a stick here so we can beat the dog, and they say, "Those people are from CE Wood." If you're doing a little bit in the forestry business, you know that a lot of people have written Forests of the Czech Republic, Less & Forest, CE Wood on their resumes, and some have turned around more times. That doesn't mean these people are villains or thieves. You're insulting me in this way. If you're supposed to have this logic, I don't want to give you the benefit of the doubt, but that makes sense if the logic should be, you're saying that the hundreds of employees who worked at CE Wood are all villains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u49	Thank you, Minister. [[Weak applause from the right.]] Another duly applied for is Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u50	Thank you. Through the President, you spoke to CE Wood about insulting people, regardless of the fact that CE Wood was one of those who wanted to sue and even went through some procedures in Brussels towards the Forests of the Czech Republic. And I think those who move on this matter know this case well. But when you said that no Bubenik Partners chose anything, that the CEO finally chose it for the $1.92 million, I just need to read you the exact opposite of what you just told us here. You wrote to me, through the President, in reply: For the sake of complete impartiality and objectivity, the selection committee was composed of a representative of Bubenik Partners. So the Bubenik Partners decided who would be there. You say, Minister, through Mr President, that you do not, but here you write that you did, that you did. So please be clear about this. I don't want to go back to that. I think whoever wanted it understood that the Bubenik Partners simply served as an alibi and a mist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u51	I thank Mr Bendl. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. There's no one like that. If no one reports, this is where I conclude the debate and ask Mr Bendl, as proposed by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u52	I think that we cannot agree with this kind of procedure, and this cannot be a relevant answer for us, which is why I propose that we disagree with this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u53	Mr Bendl is proposing opposition to this answer, and I will put it to a vote. That means who's in favor of disagreeing, press yes, who's against disagree, press no. Initiating vote. Anyone who disagrees with the Minister Jurečka's reply, press yes. Who's against it? It's vote number 34. 131 Members and Members are registered. For 35, against 45. The motion was not accepted. Thank you and I note that we have stopped discussing the responses to the written interpelations of Members for today. I am now interrupting the Chamber of Deputies until 11 o'clock, and at 11 o'clock we will continue with the next points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u54	Good morning, dear colleagues, it's 11:00. Just to remind you, after written interpelations, we have already firmly classified points 64, 65, 75, 123, 124 and 125. We should continue with other points from the block of second and first readings, then possibly points from the block of news, suggestions and more. I see with priority the right of the President of the Czech Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, who seems to have something to do with the agenda. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u55	Thank you for the floor. Yes, that's right, I'd like to make a motion to change the agenda. Specifically, I suggest that we move three first readings, which we should discuss about tomorrow, to Wednesday, February 11, following the block of third readings. In particular, it is point 28 - Proposal for a Employment Act, paragraph 29 - Amendment to the Labour Code and point 31 - Amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act. So these three prints move, respectively firmly to the Wednesday of February 11th after the block of third readings. That's one suggestion. Second draft. In the absence of the Minister Zaorálek would like to propose five agreements, which he should submit here in the House, to include firmly tomorrow after the block of third readings. This is a partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and the Republic of the Philippines, Vietnam and Mongolia. These are points 71, 72 and 73, and then the Association Agreement with the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine, paragraphs 76 and 79. So these agreements tomorrow after the block of third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u56	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is applying for the meeting. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u57	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to place point 118 firmly. This is about Report of the Audit Board of the Technology Agency of the Czech Republic for 2013. Not only is this a report, but it also attaches recommendations on the 2013 remuneration. I would like us to deal with the debt we have to the control agency, and I ask for a firm ranking after today's already firmly placed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-22-ps2013-025-03-001-139.u58	Thank you. If anyone else doesn't sign up for the agenda, we'll vote on the proposals. First of all, there are two proposals from the President of the Social Democracy Club. First of all, these are the first readings - points 28, 29 and 31, which should be moved from tomorrow to 11 February after the block of third readings, and the points of Minister Zaorálek - points 71, 72, 73, 76 and 79, which should be firmly inserted tomorrow after the block of third readings. I'm asking if we can talk about these-- excuse me, the secretary's not going to vote. [[War]] It's because, Madam Secretary, you're still logged in somewhere else. Yes, it should be possible now. It's okay. I ask if we can vote on these two proposals together, or do you want to vote separately? Is the motion for a vote separate? This is not the case, so we will vote together. I am opening the vote on the proposal made by the President of the Social Democracy Club. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 35, 148 Members and Members, for 92, against 2. The motion was accepted. Next, we have a second proposal - Mrs Putnová. Item 118, Report of the Technology Agency for 2013 to be moved to today on fixed points, if so. [[There's no objection.]] I am opening the vote on Mrs Putnová's proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 36, 148 Members and Members, for 100, against none. This proposal has also been adopted. That's how we dealt with the agenda points. The first item on the agenda is item number
