ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-034-01-000-000.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Commencing session 34 of the Chamber of Deputies, welcome to all of you. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 56 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Friday 2 October. I'm asking you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. We will proceed to identify the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Hnyková and Mr Jiří Petr. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I do not see another proposal, so we will decide in voting number 1 on this proposal that the verifiers be Mrs Jana Hnyková and Mr Jiří Petrů. I've started voting number one, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 1. 93 for 87 present, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we are the verifiers of the 34th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies designated by Mrs Jana Hnyková and Mr Jiří Petr. I say that until the opening of the meeting they asked to apologise for their absence to the negotiations by these Members: Vice-President Bartošek for reasons of work, Jiří Běhounek for reasons of health, Jan Birke for no reason, Milan Brázdil for no reason, Marek Černoch from 15.30 for Ženíšek of work, Ivan Gabal until 11 hours for Zemánek of work, Olga Havlová for reasons of work as well as David Kádner, Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský until 9.30 for personal reasons as well as Květa Matušovská, Lukáš Pleticha - working grounds, Karel Schwarzenberg for working reasons, Ladislav Šincl on a foreign trip, Karel Tureček - working grounds, Josef Vondrášek and Josef VozdeckVozdecký for health reasons as well as Vlastimil Vozka for reasons of work, from 11.30 for reasons of work, Jaroslav Zavadil, from 14.30 Václav Zemek. Furthermore, Mr Zemek's tickets were received this morning from 9am to 13pm, Jaroslav Holík from 11pm to 12pm and Minister Andrej Babiš for today's meeting at the 33rd and 34th meetings. Vice-President Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes further from the members of the government until 11 o'clock, Jiří Dienstbier for work reasons, Daniel Herman and Milan chovanec for work reasons throughout the day, for morning meetings for work reasons Michaela Marksová, until 16 o'clock Svatopluk Němeček, due to foreign travel Robert Pelikán, Martin Stropnickýý; Minister Karla Šlechtová apologizes to Minister Kateřina Valachová for working reasons for the whole day, Minister Ťok for foreign travel as well as Minister Zaorálek for working reasons. Those were apologies at the 34th meeting, respectively. for today. I state that I have announced all my apologies before the opening of the meeting. We'll proceed with approval of the 34th meeting. We will vote on the proposal. Since we cannot change it, we will vote on the proposal as submitted in the request of 56 Members. In the meeting itself, we must say that one item was discussed in the 33rd meeting and will therefore not be approved. I will do so only after the approval of the agenda and after its approval, we would briefly interrupt the meeting for a mandatory programme under the Rules of Procedure, as agreed on the Gremium. Because it's Thursday, there's an ongoing meeting on the day of the interpelation, and then we'd add these points. Before the vote on the agenda, Mr Miroslav Kalousek shall be the chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-034-01-000-000.u2	Thank you. If an emergency meeting programme is approved, which I highly recommend, but I will submit to the will of the House, but if it is approved, please, Mr President, I should be given the floor with a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-034-01-000-000.u3	Yes, of course, after approval of the agenda. Mr Rykala has a replacement card number 17. So we will now decide on the agenda for the vote number 2 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 2 of the present 126 for 71, against 21. The motion was accepted. Now, before the interruption, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-034-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you my procedural proposal in which I would like to ask that we mobilise the leftovers of reason. As much as some of our special-purpose arguments point to the opposite, we are not really fighting against increasing gambling taxation here. We don't mind the content. At least we don't mind enough to block the House meeting for him. We simply believe that proposals of this type, in particular those for amending tax rates, are to be put forward with a proper proposal, duly discussed, and should not be approved by a padded deputist chassis, which we still do not know how it will turn out until now. It's not true that we're under extraordinary time pressure. Please count me in. If the approved proposal leaves either government or three coalition Members, which will be properly discussed, but I think it should be government if the duly approved proposal leaves the Chamber of Deputies by the end of November - and we have a chance at this time on 8 October - then we have a chance to have the rates effective. All we really care about is working the way we're supposed to. I ask very much to consider this proposal, and I therefore propose that we interrupt our extraordinary meeting not briefly, but simply interrupt, and I firmly believe that the members of the parliamentary clubs will agree very soon. I am convinced that we are able to find an agreement. If you decide to go for strength, it's possible, but that's usually not the effective way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-034-01-000-000.u5	I understand that, according to Tuesday's agreement, the proposal is not for interruptions until 11 o'clock, but for interruptions for an indefinite period. Yes? Okay. I will try to deal with this under the Rules of Procedure. I mean, I wouldn't... [[He hesitates.]] Well, when I quote the Rules of Procedure... So, until the new agreement between the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, in order to have a deadline, I should just deal with the relevant paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, you understand me. The chairman of the ODS Club. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-034-01-000-000.u6	Good morning. Well, that's new, I've never heard that before. Before we vote on this, we could define what a new agreement is for Members' Club Chairs, so that we can be sure. Does that mean everyone has to agree? Or does most have to agree? I think it's important to know that it doesn't make us feel like some people have gotten caught up, that one thought everyone had the veto, another thought they didn't have the veto. Let's make this perfectly clear. And it's supposed to be said in advance, not after, because then everyone's gonna be telling themselves how it's gonna come in handy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-08-ps2013-034-01-000-000.u7	I would specify that it must simply be closed, for example, by the next meeting of the Organising Committee, because I consider it necessary. Mr Kalousek accepts, so in agreement with the Presidents of the Clubs, which will be notified to the next meeting of the Organising Committee. That's how we're gonna specify it. This will comply with the Rules of Procedure. I have begun voting order number 3 and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this meeting until the new agreement of the members of the parliamentary clubs who will notify it to the nearest meeting of the organising committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 3, from 136 in favour of 123, versus 3. The motion was accepted. I'm interrupting the 34th meeting. One thing we will wait for the electronic device to open a meeting of the 33rd, where we will continue to respond to the written interpelations of Members who have opposed the response to their written interpelation. We'll continue at 9.20 hours.
