ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u1	154. Proposal by Members of Jan Farský, Andrej Babiš, Pavel Bělobrádek and others for the issue of the Act on the Register of Contracts and on the amendment of Act No. 137/2006 Sb., on public procurement, as amended /house print 42/ - third reading I therefore ask the representatives of Mr Farský appellants and also the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is the Committee of Constitutional Law, and the rapporteur is Mr Jan Chvojka. The amendments and the motion for refusal are set out in Parliament's Press 42/9, were received on 10 July 2015. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 42/10. I will ask Mr Farský whether he wants to speak before the debate is opened. It's not like that. In that case, I am opening the debate and I have Mr Klán's application in it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. After you, the rapporteur will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, good morning. Finally, we come to the third reading of the Treaty Register Act, and I will present here a certain opinion of our club and comment on the individual amendments that we will support and which we will not support. We will, of course, first support my amendments, which I tabled at second reading, then Mr Adamec's amendment, which introduces the annual report on the register of contracts. I learned that the Ministry of the Interior, by extension, the Ministry of Regional Development, because it depends on who the administrator will be, that he does not want the introduction of the annual report. They say they don't know -- which I'm quite interested in -- what they would write in the annual report. So it's me, so I'm gonna give them some advice on what should be in the annual report. Of course, there should be a financial cost for the introduction of the register of contracts itself, how many people will be employed in the administration of the register of contracts and, of course, an analysis of the efficiency or number of accesses to the register of contracts must not be missing. When the promoter here keeps saying that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, it is a very well-observed law, and I ask that the atmosphere in the House be consistent with both the interest in this law and the time it lies in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u4	When the petitioner claims that the register of contracts works in Slovakia, yes, Slovakia has an established register of contracts and is the only state in Europe that has a register of contracts functional. And when he writes to me, I don't know, the reconstruction of the state, like yesterday they sent me an interesting pamphlet or brochure or, as I would call it, it seems to me that it's not even the reconstruction of the state that they're writing, but I think it's already deconstruction of the state. In some ways, it's really deconstruction of the state. That is why we will support some amendments to the register of treaties so that the register of treaties is really functional and, above all, not to endanger the security of the state, which may happen there, because, for example, they would have to publish, for example, the Chamber of Deputies or the whole of Parliament, and there is a big problem. We will therefore support Mr Kalousek's amendment, so this will be another amendment that we will support. But let's get back to the annual report. If the annual report doesn't require an analysis of efficiency or cost benefit analysis, an analysis of costs, so that it will be completely misguided. I've already said here at second reading that if we don't have a clearly functioning public procurement law, then the contract register is toothless. It just won't work properly. We have to deal with the Public Procurement Act. The register of contracts, yes, well, whatever it is, but not in this form, as it is presented here. I don't know. Didn't the promoter realize we could take out state firms? I understand that ČEZ has an exception, he said he'd dug it up or I don't know how he did it. Okay, it's a listed company, so there's an exception. But what about Budvar? I don't know. What about the Czech Post? What about the Forests of the Czech Republic? I don't know. Like when they publish a contract, of course, we're going to black out some information that would threaten some sort of business secret, okay, but what about the rest? I don't know, I really don't know, and if anyone wants to take out state firms, then it's definitely not gonna be us. Now let's move on a little bit. I have to take a breather here that we're always in some way pushed into something from State Renovation, that it's just the best-- the law that's the best, the coolest, the most amazing, I don't know what everything is. And you think that's what the state administration or the entire state is all about? I think nothing will happen with the introduction of the contract register, and nothing will happen with its acceptance. The state will just keep working. And if it gets more transparent, as I say, if the Public Procurement Act doesn't work, it's misguided. Maybe someone can think for themselves about what I'm talking about and say - so well, we'll have a contract register, they'll have to put in the contracts, if they're not there after three months, they'll be invalid and stuff like that. Well, at present, municipalities can publish their own contracts. Why should I order them all to do that? I just don't know. I mean, I may be a little confused, maybe somebody's gonna laugh about it, but I just think the contract register is a big problem. [[There's a constant rush in the hall.]] And we're being pushed somewhere we don't want to, no matter what kind of lobbying or whatever. And when I read here that the State's reconstruction is simply supported by the United States Embassy in Prague, I don't know what's going on here. They're probably really trying to take out our state. We're gonna have some sort of social lab back here, just under the pressure of the United States. I really don't understand. Just when I read it here, the State's reconstruction is further supported by the U.S. Embassy in Prague, the British Embassy, the Canadian Embassy, you have all the chambers of commerce, Anheuser-Busch, and I don't know, it's just waiting for something, I don't know. I don't know if the promoter knows or doesn't know, or it's purposeful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u5	Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down! I hate to interrupt the very emotional output of the Member, but I must, because the noise level is very high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u6	So I can see now that we're gonna publish those state-owned business contracts, how that sweet competition is just gonna walk around waiting specifically for it to be published. Let's be aware of that. That's all it is. Of course, I'm looking forward to the media writing about me, for example, that I've been weeping and screaming just that it's not going to happen and it's going to happen. I'm just not gonna forgive myself for paralleling the service bill. This was also a parliamentary proposal, as is the register of treaties. It also did not have a proper analysis of the impact of regulation on active actors. And how did that turn out? Well, we see it today. So you'll see that if we approve the contract register, there'll be a similar phenomenon to the service bill. That's why I'm making it clear that it was supposed to be a government proposal. An analysis of the impact of the regulation of the various actors concerned should have been properly worked out, and this is full of them. I can say we held seminars. I used to go there. Different meetings, seminars, and I don't know what. Sometimes it was just some rumors. Just the affected players had a big problem with that. And if we don't let them express it - and because the parliamentary motion doesn't make it, because it doesn't have the apparatus as much as the Ministry does, whether it's the Ministry of the Interior or whatever else, it really feels like a little bit off to me. So, as I'm saying, it was supposed to be a government proposal with a well-designed analysis of the RIA. If he's not there, it's a big problem. [[9.30 hours]] If we look at it further, in our view, the introduction of a register of contracts will only increase bureaucracy, for example. in small villages. Of course, we agree with the exception, which gives small municipalities an exception to those three steps or more, but it doesn't matter at this point, but if we look at it and small municipalities have to insert contracts into that register, of course you can say that it will be three minutes, two minutes, just click it and it will be inserted there. Now some contracts will have to be scanned, and that's the problem. Because we have to have a certain program to convert to PDF, we can call it OCR or anything else, and that is again financially costly. And if I use the German writer Manfred Spitzer's claim here, who wrote the Digital Dementia book, they'd eventually get their brains out of their heads. We're just gonna keep putting stuff in there for so long when we're swamped with it. But as I said in the beginning, competition awaits everything. No one's gonna talk me out of it. I'm not gonna be talked out of it by Mr. Speaker anyway. If I ask just how it's gonna be with these state-owned businesses, I didn't even get the answer last time. I understand ČEZ has an exception, but what about the others? If we look further at other amendments, we will support Mr Vilímec's amendment, Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Kalousek and Mr Stanjura in part. In our opinion, these amendments will improve and improve the register of contracts and will not endanger the state itself. But I'm really sorry about the state companies. I can declare, and I am very clear here that we will vote against all Mr Farský's amendments. If only one of Mr Farský's amendments passes, then we have nothing left but to vote against the register of treaties. Because he is putting back into the law of ČEZ, which at this time has an exception. I'm not gonna liquidate a state firm with some 63 percent state participation that lays golden eggs to just destroy them. Or I don't know who's waiting for it, whether America or the West is waiting for it. I don't know what kind of nonsense this is. I don't want to hold up much longer before the third reading, because there's still quite a lot of us logged in. But I'm going to say the issue of living treaties here. We discussed this with Mr Vondráček when we tabled a similar amendment. These are the contracts that are currently underway, so-called. live contracts. Last time I said something about retroactivity, it's obviously forbidden in our country. Mr Vondráček argued that even though it is now normally published, I think that in finance or where it is normally published and nothing is happening, well, nothing is happening at this point, but something can happen in the future, of course. But we'll see. Finally, I will say here that we are really concerned about state enterprises such as ČEZ, Budvar, Forests of the Czech Republic, Czech Post and many others, because if they were to publish concluded contracts, it would mean their liquidation. And we, ladies and gentlemen, will not allow that. So if the register of contracts threatens state firms, then the state itself and its existence, because it could eventually lead to theft of the state, the collapse of the state and various other theories, then we cannot vote for the law on the register of contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u7	Now they're here - is that factual? No. Now there are two priority rights, Mr rapporteur, after him President Kalousek, then with priority rights President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, it is very difficult to enter after a very well-founded speech by Mr Klán, who is interested in the same laws as I am. We've been in contact - I've already been a reporter for the Service Act, and now we're dealing with the Contract Register Act. I understand that he's a little deer - through the President - from the law, if he'd watched it for as long as I have, he'd have understood it a little bit more. However, I would like to start by saying something slightly in jest and then seriously. To begin with: I think it is a very serious day for the lives of each individual Member, that today we are voting on this law, finally after a year and a quarter. It's a law that some call the most beautiful law, and I don't think every day a law is passed that is the most beautiful. They say this one should be one of them. We will see in practice and also how amendments will be approved, how this will look. I would just like to remind you - very closely watching us already mentioned, all of us popular, reconstruction of the state. I'm glad that this point finally got into the program because they were watching us on Wednesday, Tuesday, they're still watching us, they're sitting on those computers and they're monitoring and they still haven't figured it out. Now it's finally come to this, so congratulations. I would also like to say to all of you that we are no longer being followed only by celebrities such as Vilém Čok or Otakar Černý or Simona Babčáková, but before yesterday on his Facebook profile, Karel Randák said that he would be very careful to watch who voted. If you bear the consequences alone, they warn. [[Fun in the hall.]] Now, seriously. I read my favorite journal on the tram this morning as a newsletter, and there I read one thing that awaits us today, including the register of contracts, and it says here: For three years now in the House there is a fairly simple measure according to which municipalities, regions or state authorities would have to publish most of their contracts. The law originally from the TOP 09 workshop does not want mainly municipal politicians and so far they have managed to postpone it through ČSSD and ODS. That's where I'd like to fix my favorite diary a little bit. Firstly, I do not think that there has been any deliberate delay, that there has been any delay that is not justified. The law - but in quotation marks - was postponed by all sides, because the law, although it has some - or the proposed form has some 11 or 12 paragraphs, is not so simple. It's not that if the law has 10 paragraphs or 11, it's easier than the law that has 100. It's just not like that. Every single paragraph of the original proposal and what we will now approve is very important. Therefore, we have been very detailed about this. Coalition consensus and consensus across and with some other parties was very difficult, because there were relevant objections, justified objections, which simply had to be met. I'm just going to remind you, and I'm glad that I pushed this through to the mayors of small municipalities, mayors of small municipalities from all sides, not ODS or ČSSD, but ODS, CSSD, I think I didn't have any, now I don't know, KDU-ČSL, so it's regardless of party jurisdiction. I am glad that small-type municipalities, which means smaller municipalities than municipalities with extended scope, have two years' delay from the law's effectiveness, and I am glad that this has been incorporated into a comprehensive amendment, which I now want to talk about. The comprehensive amendment is basically what - and I intercede for it - should be approved for the law to work in some way, in a regime that is bearable both for municipalities and for regions, simply for all the entities concerned. On this comprehensive amendment were members of three coalition parties, behind ČSSD I, for YES colleague Vondráček, behind KDU-ČSL colleague Bartošek, under the gessional leadership of the Ministry of the Interior. I think that it has been able to pilgrimage and sharpen all the edges that have bothered and please support this comprehensive amendment. Then I ask for the support of Radek Vondráček's amendment, which is also aware of the coalition and the government's awareness, it is an amendment that changes the gesture over the register of treaties. Gesci will not have the Ministry of the Interior, sorry, the Ministry of Regional Development - register of contracts, but it will be the Ministry of the Interior. It is an amendment that has been tabled with the approval of the Ministry of the Interior. I think the debate will still be alive, so I'm very happy to volunteer and attend. Please, let's finally do this today to please a few celebrities and people who are watching it from State Reconstruction, approve and send this bill to the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u9	Thank you. There is one factual point, because my colleague Jandák withdrew his request, so is the factual point of President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u10	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I don't know what the rapporteur's favorite journal is, but it's nice for someone to think that a club with 16 MPs is capable of blocking something for almost two years without any obstruction at this point. And thank you for your faith. Too bad that's not entirely true. We'd be using it a lot more often if we were doing well. However, I would like to draw your attention to my amendments, which are under the letter K. Of course, I would like you to support all of them, but I have one that I consider key. I say that I have consulted him with the mayors of small municipalities, regardless of their political affiliation. The rapporteur rightly said that a two-year grace period is proposed for municipalities of the first and second types in a comprehensive amendment. I don't think that's enough. In addition, two years from now, there will be municipal elections, the composition can be changed at city halls. The submitters themselves, in the complex amendment, say that all municipalities of the first and second types manage only 10 per cent of the public funds relating to municipalities. Only 10 percent. I have proposed a permanent exception for the municipalities of the first and second type, which means those who have a really small number of officials or none at all. It's a letter K, point 6. Now I don't know if it's 6 or J, but I'm sure you'll know. And I would very much like to see how the mayors, regardless of political affiliation, want us Members, regardless of political affiliation, to support this particular amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u11	Thank you. Now, therefore, back to the priority rights of Mr Kalousek, and then there is the priority right of Mr Stanjura. He doesn't want to apply it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that a total of seven members of the government are signed among the authors of the original press, and everyone has justified their signature and their initiative on this law by the need to increase transparency especially on acquisitions in public administration. This verbal approach contrasts sharply with government practice, where the number of contracts has been rising sharply for two years without tenders, essentially in all resorts. It is simply a typical example of preaching water and drinking wine. I know the contract register is something other than the Public Procurement Act, but it has one common concept, and that is transparency. And I take advantage of the Prime Minister's presence here, and as Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, I would like to ask the government to stop this practice. Under your government, the lack of transparency and the number of contracts without tenders are growing sharply. In other words, in your government, the corruption environment is growing sharply when buying the various chapters of the state budget. First of all. Secondly, allow me to try once more to explain and defend my amendment concerning the priority chapters of the state budget. Like budgetary rules, they do not want chapters such as the Constitutional Court, the SAO, the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies to be subjected to pressure by the government by deciding on their budget, and only by the budget committee of the House, or the House itself, so I consider it extremely reasonable that these chapters should not be exposed to media pressure and sometimes over-activated pressure on the publication of contracts. I really do not think that it will serve to be impartial, for example, of the Constitutional Court, if it is under constant supervision by not always qualified activists who will study all its contractual relations. It has to do with the security issue. Let us remember that both constitutional judges and senators and Members are not their place of residence at their place of employment. The Constitutional Court, the Senate, the Chamber of Deputies concludes a number of lease agreements where it provides accommodation to constitutional judges, Members, senators. I do not think it is reasonable for anyone to search the Internet for the exact addresses of the residence of constitutional judges, senators, Members. We, who receive dozens of threatening e-mails and text messages a week, are accustomed to a certain degree of threat, but I do not see the only reason why we should voluntarily increase it ourselves. The level of masochism we undergo simply has its limits. And I think that the boundaries of security are not only ours, but also constitutional judges, for example, worth this consideration. Therefore, I ask you to think about my amendment and its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u13	Thank you. Now proper applications. Mr Adamec and then Mr Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u14	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I will be brief as ever. Perhaps I would have responded to my colleague Klána in the introduction through Mr President. I don't really like these writings anymore, so it leaves me calm. And maybe I'd like to work with a colleague. Chvojka also wanted to respond that I don't know any law beautiful. I only know the law good or bad. And I certainly don't consider this bill a good one. But maybe I'm wrong. That's what practice's gonna show. Because I really think that, as the bill is drafted, it is redundant. Finally, the publication of contracts takes place in a number of municipalities, only the limit is somewhere else. I don't know if we really need to create registers that we're gonna flood with a lot of data that doesn't practically have to serve anything or just, I'd say, the possibility of further trading this information and enforcing a business that would otherwise be going a whole different way. Plus, the law is expensive, and I don't think the effects of what the submitters assume will be. And even I consider the bill dangerous, in the end, the arguments have fallen. I'm not gonna repeat them. But as I say in the introduction, maybe I'm wrong. To be sure, I would like to ask you and ask you to support my amendment concerning the annual report, because we already have a number of laws that impose something. Something where we write, we give property confessions, and I've never seen a feedback. Here I think we should really verify whether the pressure from the State's reconstruction, I don't like to say the word, or from different celebrities, is justified. 'Cause we should do the reverse flap, reverse flap, reverse flick. And the excuse that I don't know what the annual report is supposed to look like... I don't know, every company makes an annual report. And I think it's been dropped here, too, a few basic data to actually see if those approaches are there, how much data is there, how much it costs us, how many officials are employed there, and if there are any side effects. I think the Ministry is able to describe this every year. And I would ask you to support this proposal of mine. I may end by reminding such a saying, a rule that applies more than once in politics: it is not enough to have good intentions, because even the way to hell is usually paved with good intentions. Thank you for your support, and I trust you will help me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u15	Thank you. Mr. Vilímec, please. After that, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has already discussed in his introductory words how long this bill has been under discussion. There is a very non-standard discussion and, after all, the comprehensive amendment, although I consider it better than the original bill, is significantly different from the original bill. doktor Chvojka said that local politicians do not wish to approve this law. I'm a municipal politician in the position of deputy mayor... [[Newsletter: That's what the papers said.]] That's what the papers said, okay, so I'm sorry. I have been a municipal politician in the post of deputy mayor for 26 years, since 1990, then I joined the municipal policy as an elév as spokesperson for the Civic Forum, and I have been able to verify closely over the 26 years how many administrative changes and bureaucratic duties have increased during that time. And most of the time, it did not lead to any better conditions for community policy as such or for citizens themselves. Today, municipalities must fulfil many of the obligations imposed on them by law, perhaps we all know that. This proposal is based on the idea that the obligation to register contracts in a new institute of register contracts above a certain limit will lead to some greater transparency, to better supervision of citizens. I'm gonna ask you a rhetorical question: How many times have we listened to these intentions and in the end have they always remained only in bureaucracy? Even now, a new institute is actually being created. For me, the argument that this institute has already been introduced in Slovakia does not apply much. You see, I come from Western Bohemia and we are judged there and our results are compared not with the mayors in Slovakia but with the mayors in Bavaria. And we're trying to get close to them. Unfortunately, they have not only more money, but in these legislative matters, much more support not only from local districts but also from the local government. There are no registers of contracts, in Bavaria, and it works very successfully. And no one even calls for it. I have not heard from the mouth of a Bavarian politician that he would call for the establishment of a register of contracts because it is legal in Slovakia. I confess, I don't want to prolong the general part of my performance, I don't think whether it's approved in one form or another, this register of contracts, it's not going to lead to any positive effects. I have the great advantage of not signing any Bianko cheques to the State Reconstruction, so I am totally free in my decision-making, and certainly, if I vote for you or those amendments and then decide whether or not I will vote on the bill, not because of the State Reconstruction, but because of my conviction whether the law is good or bad. I would just like to ask you to support my amendment. I was trying to reflect in that amendment the fact that there are so-called. voluntary associations of municipalities, which are mostly established by small municipalities. I don't know any voluntary union of municipalities where there's a county town or a big city. They are volumes that have worked for years, which have a minimum apparatus, have almost no officials, they are financed, except for any subsidies, if they succeed, so they are financed only by the Member States' contributions. And while the rapporteur has imposed a two-year exemption for small municipalities with a duty to register contracts, voluntary unions have no exception. I therefore think it is appropriate to consider and support a permanent exception for these voluntary associations of municipalities, which manage very largely small assets and are volumes that seek to deepen some inter-general cooperation. Interestingly, when I talk about voluntary associations of municipalities, it was completely forgotten about the Association of Regions. The County Association looks like there's no contracts over 150,000. This is interesting, but voluntary associations of municipalities, which mostly manage small funds, are incorporated into the law. So I would like to ask you, all the honourable colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies, to think about my amendment, which is mentioned under the letter E, and regardless of the fact that the guarantee committee does not recommend its acceptance to change their mind, they realize that it is a union of small municipalities, and they have supported their permanent exclusion, virtually. removal from that obligation to register contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u17	Thank you. There is now Mrs Fischerová's factual point, so I will give her the floor, followed by Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning to all of us, ladies and gentlemen. I listened to Mr Vilímec, before listening to all previous speakers, including Mr Klán, and I will say across the political spectrum: I feel enormous support for small communities here. There is a Union of cities and municipalities, which is often referred to here, and there has also been discussed very often, this topic. You may recall that during, I suspect, it was in the spring months, a petition was received from the mayors of small villages, over 800 mayors were signed across the Republic, across the political spectrum. And I, too, really want to invite you from this place to this Stanjura amendment, because the mayors, as I meet them every day in the Highlands, say: We really can't do any more. If this falls on those newly elected, no one will ever want to do this again. And we know that the foundation of the state is not only a family, but also a community. So that's why I'm turning to you again, to all of you, to all of you: Amendment K6, that's where it says so. So before you raise your voice, your hand, for how you lean in and treat our small villages, which, for example, in the Vysočina Region, where we have 704 municipalities, it's really a lot in relation to other regions, and those communities of the first and second degree are the majority. And believe me, the mayor's job in a small village is that he doesn't know what's coming tomorrow, when the court will turn on him, etc. for his decision, so think of the mayors and mayors of these communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u19	Thank you, ma'am. Please Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Heger will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. At second reading, I read the amendment to the comprehensive amendment by colleagues Vondráček, Chvojka and Bartošek to the parliamentary bill on the register of contracts concerning the exemption of contracts for the provision and reimbursement of health services covered by public health insurance and contracts for the reimbursement of medicinal products containing vaccines for regular vaccination from the scope of the proposed law on the register of contracts. At the second reading, I also discussed in detail the reasons why I propose this step. I also mentioned the fact that the other health insurance contracts proposed by me do not exclude the amendment from the scope of the law, it concerns only so-called. payment contracts. All other contracts should be published in the register of contracts, as is the case with other public institutions. I would also like to stress that the proposed amendment does not diminish the importance of the Treaty Register Act, which I personally and KDU-ČSL support. That is why I will now allow only a few comments, which underline the reasons which led me to present this amendment, with a polite request to you to support it in today's vote. [[10.00 hours]] 1. The Government's commitment to the publication of contracts between health insurance companies and health service providers has already been fulfilled by the entry into force of the so-called transparent amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act on 1. 9. 2015. And I certainly do not need to point out here that this so-called transparent amendment was born here in quite a great deal of pain under relatively large political pressures and was finally adopted across the House and is now being fulfilled. [[2.]] According to the transparent amendment, health insurance companies are obliged to publish all payment contracts, including their changes and additions, in a way that allows remote access within 60 days of their conclusion under a penalty of up to CZK 10 million. It should also be said that most health insurance companies started publishing payment contracts long before the deadline for the transparency amendment. Even the VZP, and I do not want to glorify it here, went first in this regard and beyond subsequently adopted and effective transparency amendments and also published applications for the conclusion of new contracts, which in my opinion significantly extends the possibility of public control of the management of public health insurance funds. In my opinion, this step also significantly reduces the corruption potential in the conclusion of new contracts between health insurance companies and health service providers. 3. The transposition amendment is more stringent in its diction than the Treaty Register Act, since it explicitly provides for the obligation to publish contracts and payment amendments from 2014 onwards, i.e. for the entire term of our term of office in this Chamber of Deputies. 4. Health insurance companies have already set up their information systems to publish contracts according to an already effective transparency amendment, and, as I have already mentioned, they are already publishing them. The failure to accept this amendment would result in a double-track regulation and a failed investment of several tens of millions of crowns by health insurance companies without further legislative measures. I'm saying again, it's not about defending health insurance, it's about public health insurance, it's about public finances for all of us. And it is not possible to see the personnel requirements of health insurance companies to duplicate the publication of payment contracts, which in the case of almost 100,000 payment additions per year will not be zero, despite the maximum automation of these processes. 5. In the event that the amendment is not adopted, it would be necessary to amend Act No. 48/1997 Coll., as both legal standards are intrinsically contradictory without further legislative adjustments. For example, it is not clear when the contract would become effective, whether in the diction of the Act on the Register of Contracts, or in the diction of the transparent amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance. 6. The essence of the publication of the contract and the payment supplement for health care payments is not primarily the price, but the identification of whether the contract or supplement deviates from the applicable payment decree. This may identify possible non-standard contracts. This amendment contains a transparent amendment to the Health Insurance Act. 7. Both legislation leads to the same result, which is the publication of all payment contracts, their amendments and amendments, and thus to strengthen public control. For example, minor deviations in the format of published contracts cannot justify the double-trackity of the legislation, the increase in the costs of health insurance companies and, in principle, the confidence of the addressees of the legal standard in the non-variable legal state. I would like to conclude by saying that we are all aware that our public rightly calls for the greatest possible control of public funds. At the same time, however, our citizens also closely monitor whether our adopted legal standards, as a result, do not mean a hidden waste of public finances in another respect. Likewise, our citizens are indebted to say that they are often rightfully outraged if this legislative body adopts a law which, at the time of its adoption, we are already admitting that it will be amended in a short time or will result in an immediate change to another law. Yes, unfortunately, we have already adopted such standards in this composition of the Chamber of Deputies. And I'll admit it's my doing, too. I'm not proud of it, and I'm convinced that a good name doesn't do that to us legislators. If we have a legitimate opportunity not to act like this, then I would politely ask you: Let us not do this! In this particular case, let us give some time to demonstrate how the publication of contracts in practice will work according to a transparent amendment. And if it proves that this system is not functioning enough, it does not provide sufficient transparency, then let us include these contracts in the register of contracts. At this point, however, the duplication of the obligations already fulfilled will be a waste of public finances and human forces. And believe me, during my time as director of the hospital, I have had an incredible number of arguments with health insurance companies, so I have no reason to defend them for no reason in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you to support my amendment under f. děkovat you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u21	Thank you. Two factual points - Mr Svoboda and then Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal put forward by Mr Kaňkovský now is an absolutely fundamental proposal. Transparence amendment solves the whole issue of corruption around insurance contracts and providers, solves much better than the draft law on the register of contracts. And all the things that my colleague Kaňkovský has said here, I can fully sign. But what is another serious matter? If we introduce a register of contracts into insurance contracts, it will mean that we will stop the flow of payments to medical facilities in the timeline, that there will be a gap, there will be a hole where the contract will not actually work and payments will not flow to medical facilities. It's a very serious matter, a very crucial threat to both hospitals and private facilities. And if we actually have a transparent novel that solves it much better and solves it in the whole complex. It would be pointless to apply the upcoming Act on the Register of Contracts in the field of health insurance contracts. This is a very serious matter, which is why I took the liberty of joining this change publicly, because it is absolutely essential for the whole health sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u23	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u24	Thank you. I have a request for you and my colleagues, Mr. Chairman. In view of the arguments raised here, before the vote on the amendments for 20 minutes, I beg you to take a break from the club. And at the same time, I'm informing my club that we'll meet as soon as the break is announced in the club room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u25	Mr President, of course I will respect you. Let me just ask you a question. I know about the agreement of the presidents of the MPs that there will be a break before the final vote. Do you wish a break before voting on the amendments themselves? [[Member Kalousek: Yes. I've come to...]] Okay. I just needed to figure out what the situation was. I understand. Before we begin voting on individual amendments, a 20-minute break will be announced for the TOP 09 meeting. Mr Heger and Mr Hovorka, then Mr Vondráček and then Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to support the amendment by Mr Kaňkovský and his colleagues. He presented the amendment here and justified it very extensively and it would not make sense for me to repeat the arguments. I agree with everyone, including the previous speaker, Mr Svoboda. Perhaps the only thing I would recall is that contracts between health insurance companies and health care providers are a specific type of contract. They are regulated by a completely different law than the Public Procurement Act. Periodically, they change and live in their own way. The solution to their publication, adopted by a transparent amendment, is very reasonable to confirm. And it finally started living this very month, and it wouldn't make sense to change it before gaining experience. I therefore support the amendment tabled by Dr Kaňkovský. I'm gonna say it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u27	Thank you. Mr. Hovorka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u28	Mr President, dear Government, dear colleagues, I would also like to ask for the support of my amendments and, in particular, I would like to draw your attention to the amendments I1 and I would like to explain that what I am proposing is a refinement of the circle of persons to whom the exemption applies. In fact, there I propose that the wording of the word "physical person acting outside the scope of his business' should be replaced by the words "non-business natural person or undertaking a natural person acting outside the scope of his business'. So it's a mere refinement, but it's pretty crucial, a circle of people to whom the exception applies. Furthermore, I consider it to be a very fundamental amendment I2, which concerns the application of the derogation only to contracts for which the total amount of performance is limited by the limit amount. I mean, this exemption should not apply to free transfers, especially real estate, which, despite being formally managed as free of charge, can be of high real value. So this is an explanation of my Amendment I2. It is simply to prevent fraud from being hidden and transfers of immovable property which may have a great fair value but are formally conducted as transferred free of charge. And then another which I think is important, the amendment, is Amendment 6, which concerns repairs in the register. The text is: "they are inseparably linked to the correction of the publication in the register'. Just an explanation, to clarify the register, should be clearly defined that both the corrections and the original texts should be inextricably bound to one whole in the register. So that is the justification for these amendments of mine, so that you understand what you will be voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u29	Thank you. Before I say another word, I will apologize to Mr Schwarzenberg, who apologizes for personal reasons. And Mr Benda 10.30 to 13.00 personal reasons. Next will be Mr Vondráček and then Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u30	Hello. My concern is, of course, a quick discussion, so I will be very brief. In my submission, there are three amendments in the system. The basic one is the complex amendment. Here I can thank colleagues who have already spoken before me and fully refer to their contribution. Then there is an amendment proposing that the Ministry of the Interior be the relevant Ministry. This is an agreement with this Ministry and a coalition agreement. It is a logical choice and I hope it will be supported. And my third amendment is the amendment referred to under the designation C1 and concerns so-called "C1'. live contracts. At the beginning of the speech, there was a word about the reduced transparency of this government and of public contracts and contracts written without tenders. I think that this amendment is proof that the YES movement is interested in maximum transparency. koneckonců all, the Ministry of Finance has already taken this step and has published all the contracts. And I can only ask for the support of all of you who will consider supporting this amendment because it is an effective instrument. Perhaps common sense is easy to understand. And what we really want to do is that contracts that generate considerable public funds and that are not covered by the register of contracts that are a register for the future that is still being created so that these contracts are under certain public control, so that maximum transparency is maintained. So thank you in the introduction for the contribution of my colleague Kalousek, who started this topic of transparency in ministerial work. I hope, therefore, also in support of my amendment in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u31	Thank you. Next for the debate will be Mr Zahradník, who is the last registered member so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two types of intervention have come to me in connection with this law. One was the one that each of you must have noticed. Thus, especially from the Reconstruction of the State, possibly from activists who have me on their maillist like you and somehow as advance thanked me for supporting this law. I answered them that this is not the case, that I am not determined to support this law. The second type of interventions and the second type of people who approached me, among other things probably because I worked in public administration at municipal and regional level for the long term, were those entrepreneurs or perhaps small-scale medium-sized entrepreneurs who are involved in the preparation of public contracts, realizations, especially their clients are municipalities, associations of municipalities, associations of municipalities or regions, who carried out their clients with the public contract and are responsible for its implementation, for its preparation. Their invoices, which they issue, are in the range of tens of thousands of crowns. They very bitterly noted with bitterness and complain that the limit for the obligation to publish contracts is set in a comprehensive amendment to CZK 50,000. According to them, this may mean increasing the possibility of corruption, and it can also complicate it, or even aggravate the culture of the environment in a competitive struggle, which, of course, is raging between these companies and which they have to face. I think that unfortunately, most of you have signed up to reconstruct the state and that this proposal will be approved here. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support those amendments which reduce his activistic character, i.e. the proposals of the Lords Adamec, Stanjura, Vilímec, Kalousek, Dr Kaňkovský and others, and at least a little bit of the point of activism that is sticking out of the law, to be absolutely clear. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u33	Thank you. Mr Klán's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'd only respond to my previous speaker. For example, the fact that I signed the State Reconstruction does not mean that I will vote in favour of the law. I'm gonna get a yellow card or a red card, or I don't know what else I can get for not voting for it. But like I said, I'm not gonna let state-owned companies go down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u35	That was therefore the last application for the debate so far. I do not see any more, so I am done with the debate. I'm going to ask you about the final words. First of all, the appellant, Mr Farský. Is he interested? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I heard the previous debate, there were, of course, many strong arguments, meaningful arguments. But from the whole debate, it's almost like I'm supposed to feel like there's some terrible disaster coming at us, something that's gonna completely disrupt this state and make it impossible for it to function. I would like to remind you at this point what this proposal is proposing at the moment. It proposes that the State should spend where public funds collected from taxpayers are spent, so that if it spends them through contractual relations, and where it is higher than the value of 50 000 to make these contracts public. And that's it. $50,000 is a big amount of money. I think the limit is unnecessarily high, that it will cause more problems than if all the contracts were there, that the determination of that value would be more problematic. But it's just contracts over 50,000 crowns. And that's a pretty big amount. I'd like to ask you. I assume that you will consult each amendment in the next 20 minutes at your clubs. I would like to ask you to support one of my aspects of an important amendment for this law as well as for you. And it's a draft under the letter. L1.7 and L1.8. What does it contain? I'm going to compare this right now with another law that's about to happen, and that's electronic sales log. The Act on Electronic Recording of Sales has been proposed to be effective four months after its approval in the House. Maybe the last deals are down to seven, but we're still in minimum months. And it means that each of the mandatory subjects, all those businessmen will have to get software, or else. Even some hardware, they'll have to prepare for it, they'll have to train. Those hundreds of thousands of taxpayers that we now want to fill the state budget will have to carry out some sort of activity. The contract register law is the other side. It is similar in this, it also wants to implement public budgets, only it comes from the other side. He says not that we'll be pouring more and more into the leaky container, but he says, let's seal the container. And if the State is to impose an obligation on itself when those who are paid out of public funds are to publish not a receipt for each lollipop, but only contracts over 50 grand, it requires some 18 months, a year and a half to full effect in a comprehensive amendment. And I'm sorry, but I find it almost arrogant. At this point, I am giving you a chance and an opportunity to get rid of this arrogance of power, this attitude, this sin, in this proposal L1.7 and L1.8 which says that the Act on the Register of Contracts will take full effect six months after its approval. This is certainly a sufficient time, given that the register of contracts itself has been on the public administration portal since 2013. In the test regime, unlike the electronic record of sales, it has been operating so long ago and at the same time imposes an obligation on the state and state-paid officials and employees and does not impose an obligation on traders. I think it is also a perfectly reasonable attempt to first try to seal the leaky container from which public funds escape, rather than try to squeeze more and more into this vessel by squeezing the tradesmen. That's why I propose this shortened legisvacation for six months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u37	Thank you. I draw attention to all those who wish to make use of the factual point that this is not possible, because we are already outside the debate. Now I'm going to ask the individual rapporteurs. The rapporteur Chvojka - is not interested. The rapporteur, Mr Birke, for the Economic Committee - is not interested. I assume that the rapporteur Novotný is not interested either. And Mr Petrů - he is not interested either. In that case, the only thing ahead is the vote on individual amendments. Since I've registered the TOP 09 application, I won't even have the procedure proposed, because I suppose it might also be discussed at the clubs, and at this point I'm going to interrupt the House's meeting. The request was for 20 minutes, i.e. Meet me at 10.45... Sorry, something else. Mr Klán, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u38	There's a motion to dismiss the law. When are we going to vote on him? Just a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u39	The request was - voting on amendments. But I think it'll be easier if we leave all the votes in one block. So even a motion to dismiss, which, of course, has its place, we will vote after a break at a club meeting. So I'll meet you at 10:46. I would also like to point out that there is an agreement between the Members' Club Chairs that, after each amendment before the final vote, there will be one more pause for the club meeting. So now 20 minutes for TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. It is 10.46 and we should continue to discuss an open point, which is the bill on the register of contracts. With priority rights, Mr. Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u41	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I'd like another 15-minute break, and I'd like to ask if we could meet - club presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u42	Yes, I will grant your request. I'm interrupting the meeting until 11:01.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, it's 11:01. Before continuing the open point, allow me to load my apologies, an apology from Mr Zlatuška, who apologizes from today's meeting at 10:30 p.m. The Minister of the Interior of Chovanec apologizes from 10:45 to the end of the day and Minister Stropnický apologizes from today's meeting of the House from 15:00. by the end of the day for working reasons. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. [[It's happening.]] We are here before the vote on amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to take a position on them before the vote. And before I do that, I beg you very much to lower your noise level, because we are going to have a rather difficult vote, so that we know what we are voting on. Before I vote, I'll have you all checked out. I'd like you to register with your cards again. I am now giving the floor to the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. With regard to the structure and procedure of the vote, it has been discussed for quite a long time on 2 September on the Guarantee Constitutional Legal Committee. The final text is included in the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, where you have a recommendation on how to vote, and then you have the second part of the resolution, where you also have individual opinions on the amendments tabled. I will ask that this structure be voted in some way, unless, of course, someone has any other proposal, because it is not entirely simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u45	Yes, but I see an application with priority rights, Mr rapporteur, so I assume it will be for this procedure. Please, Mr Stanjur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u46	Thank you. I have tabled a total of 13 amendments under points K1 to K13. I wanted the vote to be voted separately, at most on those related to each other, as well as on one vote, and on the other separately. I just want to check with the rapporteur if this is the case, because the vote is quite complicated. If that is the case, I do not have any proposal, I would just like to hear assurance that we are voting on proposals that are related and those that are unrelated to each other, we are voting separately. [[The rapporteur agrees with this procedure.]] Thank you. I'm sorry I'm late.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u47	All right, thank you. I wonder if anyone else might have another suggestion? It's not like that. Initiating vote on the proposed procedure. I ask who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 105, to which 163 are registered, for 161, against no one. I'm stating that the draft procedure has been approved. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u48	Thank you. Madam President, I would like to assure President Stanjura that he is, as he has asked. However, I would also like to draw his attention to the fact that some of the points of his amendment will not be voted if some others or others dealing with this issue are approved. This does not mean that we will vote K through K13 because there may be an identical amendment tabled which has another number and addresses the same question. But other than that, we got along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u49	Please, rapporteur, take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u50	I'll be happy to show you through this most beautiful law. [[Resurrection in the hall - laughter.]] The first thing we should be dealing with is a motion to reject the proposal. This proposal to reject the proposal is based on resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. 45 of 10 June 2014 and the opinion of the Guarantee Committee is that it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u51	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 106, registered 160 present, for 8. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u52	Thank you. We should now deal with proposal B, which is the comprehensive amendment, which was actually the basis for the submission of further individual amendments. As far as the compromise proposal is concerned, it has been a long time and I ask for its support. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u53	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 107, to which 163 are registered, for 133. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u54	Thank you. This has made proposal A1 to A8 unvoteable, so we should therefore vote on proposal C1, this is a proposal from Mr Vondráček. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u55	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I conclude the vote, it is the vote with order number 108, to which 162 are registered, for 58, against 59. The motion was denied. I'd like another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u56	Thank you. Next, we have the D2 proposal, which is Mr Klán's proposal. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u57	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I conclude the vote, it is a vote with order number 109, registered 164 present, for 8, against 119. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u58	Thank you. Proposal D7, also Mr Klán's proposal. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u59	We're at design D7. Just in case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u60	Denis sedm. 2. It's in the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u61	I've got it here in the procedure. I ask the rapporteur to clarify. [[The following is a meeting of several Members at the rapporteur's table.]] So now I've consulted the legislation here. We voted on the D2 proposal, which was equally unvoteable given that we adopted the C1 proposal, so we should now continue voting on the D7 proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u62	Yes, it is. I'm sorry, but the procedure is complicated and there are more ways than one, unfortunately. So now it's design D7, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u63	Yes, I'll ask for peace. We will now vote on proposal D7. Opinion of the Committee, please. [[The rapporteur does not recommend it.]] The plaintiff? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 110. Registered 164 present, for 37, versus 115. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u64	Thank you, and please, if necessary, legislation on control, so that there is no mistake. Proposal E, it is Mr Vilímec's proposal. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u65	The plaintiff? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 111. Registered 164 present, for 51, against 90. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u66	Proposal F, which is Mr Kaňkovský's amendment. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u67	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 112. Registered 164 present, for 111, against 45. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u68	Thank you. The G3 proposal, which is Mr Jandák's amendment. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u69	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 113. Registered 164 present, for 18, against 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u70	Thank you. Then I have a proposal in the procedure that Amendment I1, I2 and I4 will be voted together by one vote. It is Mr Hovorka's amendments. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u71	The plaintiff? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 114, to which 165 are registered. For 19, against 108. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u72	Then I have a note here that Mr Hovorka's proposal I1.3 is unvoting, identical to D7. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - Yes.]] And then we will vote on the proposal I1.5, which is also Mr Hovorka's amendment, and the position of the guarantee committee is: it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u73	Opinion of the appellant: [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 115. Registered 167 present, for 18, against 109. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u74	Then I have in my notes that the I2 proposal is unvoteable if it was accepted by F, which I believe was accepted. So the I2 is unvoted, and we should therefore vote on the K1 proposal, which is one of the points of Mr Stanjura. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u75	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommends.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 116, to which 168 are registered, for 74, against 73. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u76	Thank you. We should vote on the proposal K3, K7 and K13 together with one vote. Again, these are Mr Stanjura's amendments. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u77	Before the vote? Okay. You have the floor of priority, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u78	I can't object now. I just want to say that I asked the rapporteur if my proposals, which are not related to each other, are being voted separately. The rapporteur assured me that I did. In this case, it's not. Just K3 and K7 aren't connected at all. One is about the equity and one is about the electronic image of the data. I'm just saying, I have no objection. I should not have trusted the rapporteur, I should have checked the information. Now it's too late for me to make a motion to change the procedure, so just for the tape screen, that's how it is. We'll vote together pears and apples. Well, I suggest you approve, but each one of them is separate. That's why I wanted - when we put it together - someone wanted to support one, someone else. The sets that are against are going to come together, and they're probably not going to get away with it, and it's a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u79	Yes, thank you. I'll get the rapporteur's mike. We have heard the views.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u80	I'd like to make another statement, if I may. I apologize to my colleague if necessary, but he asked both me and my colleague Farský. We both said they were connected. We had this feeling that we did. It is also the position of legislation. There is, of course, an internal connection in the law. If he doesn't feel that way, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u81	Excellent. I'll ask again for the guarantee committee's opinion, just in case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u82	He doesn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u83	The plaintiff?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u84	I just want to apologize to Mr Stanjura, even though I know he's probably not gonna take it. The Guarantee Committee did not want a single vote, it expressed its views on these three amendments at once, but it would certainly have expressed its will if one of these amendments wanted to be pierced. Just for an apology, if that's the case. Thank you. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u85	I have Mr Kalousek's application here. [[He's not checking in.]] Excellent. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 117, registered 169 present, for 49, against 92. The motion was denied. I'd like another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u86	Then we have the proposal K6 and K12 by Mr Stanjura, together with one vote. There is the opinion of the Committee - it has not been adopted, so it is neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u87	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 118, registered 169 present, for 83, against 55. The motion was denied. I'm gonna have to wait a little bit. [[The outcome of the vote shall be checked.]] Mrs. Langšádlová?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u88	I'm really sorry, colleagues. I wanted to vote in favour, and I accidentally pressed against it. Please, I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u89	So you're questioning the vote? Yes. Therefore, we will vote on the objection to the vote. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 119, to which 169 are registered, for 159, against 2. I'm stating that the objection has been accepted. We shall therefore repeat the vote. Before I begin the vote, I will sign you all off and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. I will just ask the rapporteur to tell us which vote we are in to know, just in case, what we are voting on. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u90	We are on proposal K6 and K12, which should be voted together. It is Mr Stanjura's proposals. The opinion of the Committee shall be neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u91	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 120, registered 168 present, for 101, against 19. The motion was accepted. [[Big applause and noise from the right side of the hall.]] I'm gonna ask for peace in the House, and I'm gonna ask for another motion for a vote. I am sorry, Mr rapporteur, but then we do not know what we are voting on because there is a lot of noise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u92	Do not apologize to me, Madam President. I understand that when an amendment is adopted, it is cause for joy. The next proposal is L1.1. It's a proposal from a colleague of Farský. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u93	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 121, registered 169 present, for 5, against 133. The motion was denied. I'd like another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u94	Thank you. Then we have the proposal L1.2 to L1.4 in order together with one vote. It is again Mr Farský's proposals. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u95	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 122, registered 169 present, for 4, against 141. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u96	We also have the proposal L1.5 in the order of Mr Farský. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u97	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 123. Registered 169 present, for 4, versus 144. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u98	Thank you. Proposal L1.7 and L1.8. It is Mr Farský's proposals - together with one vote. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u99	I'm sorry, but I think we missed L1 through 6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u100	Sorry, sorry, L1 through 6, you're right. He's also a colleague of Farský. Opinion of the Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u101	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommends.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 124, registered 169 present, for 5, against 142. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u102	So now, then, the proposal L1.7 and L1.8 by Mr Farský - together with one vote. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u103	The plaintiff's position? [[Suggestor: I strongly recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 125, registered 169 present, for 25, against 125. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u104	Thank you. Proposal L2.1 and L2.3 of Mr Farského - together with one vote. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u105	It's just a little fix, I don't know if it was heard, but it's a L2.1 to L2.3 proposal. Excellent. [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] Committee opinion? [[Rapporteur: Not recommended.]] The plaintiff's position? [[Recommends.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 126. Registered 169 present, for 13, against 120. The motion was denied. Next proposal, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u106	Thank you. Proposal C2, which is Mr Vondráček's amendment. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u107	The plaintiff? [[Recommends.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 127. Registered 170 present, for 137, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u108	Thank you. Then I have a design D1, which is identical to the design D2... This is an amendment by Mr Klán. The opinion of the Committee is: it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u109	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 128. Registered 170 present, for 44, versus 106. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u110	Thank you. Proposal D3, which is also Mr Klán's amendment. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u111	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 129. Registered 170 present for 43, versus 106. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u112	Thank you. Proposal D5, which is also Mr Klán. Opinion of the Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u113	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 130. Registered 170 present, for 58, versus 87. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u114	Thank you. Furthermore, Mr Klánek D6's amendment. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u115	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 131. Registered 170 present, for 47, versus 110. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u116	The G1 proposal, which is Mr Jandák's amendment. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u117	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 132. Registered 170 present, for 37, versus 94. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u118	Thank you. In addition, together with one vote, Mr Jandák G2, G4 and G5's amendments. Together with one vote. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u119	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 133. Registered 171 present, for 39, versus 96. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u120	Then we have the H proposal, which is the Adamec's amendment. Opinion of the Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u121	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 134. Registered 171 present, for 76, versus 66. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u122	Thank you. Furthermore, we have in the order of proposal I1.1 and I1.6 together with one vote. It is Mr Hovorka's amendments. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u123	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 135, 171 registered, for 20, against 110. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u124	We have the J proposal in order, which is the amendment of Mr Kalousek. The opinion was not adopted and therefore a neutral position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u125	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 136, 171 present, 151 pro, versus 3. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u126	Thank you. Proposal K2, which is Mr Stanjura's amendment... I have a committee opinion... Sorry. Now I'm sorry. Suggestions K2, K4, K5, K8 and K9, please check if there's any way you can't vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u127	Yes, it is. I'd like to make another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u128	Then the proposal K10 and K11. Again, it is the amendments of Mr Stanjura. The proposal together is one vote. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u129	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 137, registered 171, for 67, against 79. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u130	Thank you. We have the last two amendments before us. The first of the last two should be the proposal N, which is the proposal of my colleague, Mr Foldyna. The guarantee committee took a neutral position on them. It hasn't been accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u131	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 138, 171 is registered, for 64, against 55. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u132	If I say this correctly, we have the last amendment here before voting on the law as a whole. It is Amendment N, which is the amendment of Mr Zemánek. The opinion of the Committee was not adopted, i.e. a neutral opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u133	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 139, registered 171, for 63, against 52. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. Before we proceed to the vote on the bill as a whole, after the club's agreement, I declare a half-hour recess for the club's meeting. Thank you. Meet me at 12:15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. The time taken for the break is up and we will continue the suspended negotiations of the Act on the Register of Contracts. The President of Stanjura shall have priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u135	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We had time for a club meeting, so let me introduce you to the basic position of our club. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members who supported the permanent exemption for small municipalities, and they were Members across the political spectrum. We appreciate that you supported our proposal, and I think we did the right thing. On the other hand, it will not allow me to return to the vote, while I fully respect the results of the vote, on the amendment tabled by Mr Foldyna. If I make it simple, for months and years, some activists tell us that we have to adopt a register of treaties, and it is their legitimate civic position. But most of the House has decided that they do not have to publish contracts if they receive subsidies greater than two million per year, which certainly many of these organizations do. I want to thank my colleagues, most of the social democracy club, most of the club, or perhaps all of our colleagues, from TOP 09, our club fully supported this because we say to ourselves that those who - and I say it is a legitimate instrument of civic attitude - have initiated, who have often written us even unchoosy emails at the border of threats: We are watching you and will see and publish how you voted, Mr Member! We know how you feel about that. So be assured, Mr. Ambassador, that when you vote, we will immediately inform our readers, those who read our Facebook etc. At the same time, the majority in the Chamber of Deputies said: These people do not have to publish contracts. It's legitimate, but it's smiling. Having considered all the pros and cons, after the vote on the amendments, I would like to say that our club will mostly support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u136	Thank you, Mr President. The next party to the debate is President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also briefly introduce you to our position. We have long supported this proposal, after all, one of our members is its promoter. I pointed out here during the discussion that although there are seven members of the government among the petitioners, the number of contracts in the same government is rising sharply without tenders, i.e. At the same time, the government, which is reporting to its members on this proposal, reduces transparency in its acquisitions and increases the corruption environment. What was particularly smiling was then to watch the Chamber of Deputies vote on Mr Zemánek's proposal. Let me just remind you that it was about publishing contracts to those firms that receive over 20 million a year from public budgets, that is to say, because the subsidies are the same as when a budget chapter or a contribution is managed by state funds. So, on the one hand, we're going to impose a $10 million budget on someone who has a $20 million budget to publish their contracts, because they run their budget with funds, on the other hand, a businessman who accepts more than a billion of CZK from public budgets a year, we're not going to impose that obligation on us because what he does with our money. I would like to thank Mr Zemánek for making this proposal, I want to express my respect for everyone who voted in favour, we voted in favour, of course, and it is not surprising at all, as the political division of Agrofert voted. Agrofert is a large beneficiary of public budget subsidies. Agrofert's political division defended the interests of its owner and unanimously rejected this proposal by Mr Zemánek. Of course. It is the right of each Member to vote according to his/her consciousness and conscience. It is up to you, colleagues, to consider whether you have voted on your conscience and conscience or on your boss's register. Answer your own questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u138	Thank you, Mr President. The next item is the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. They have priority rights, not debate. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, actually 26 years, or as much as it has been since the revolution, today will be adopted by a law that I think we should have adopted sometime in 1990. It is such an obvious matter to publish contracts. And I am really enjoying Mr Kalousek's performance because the Ministry of Finance, under my leadership, published all valid and invalid contracts and orders in the form of open dates since 1992 in January 2015. In addition to some that have been classified, for example, as legal services for arbitration. They were kept secret by Mr. Kalousek by the government's decision. It was so top secret that his friends would represent us exclusively in arbitration. So I really don't know what he's talking about. We publish contracts and orders. We publish new contracts in full and historically. That means we're publishing all the contracts in force at the Treasury, what all the traditional political parties here voted against. We publish all invoices. Central Register of Administration Buildings. And if Mr. Kalousek says we have JŘBU. Yes, we have what we inherited from him. Different IT issues that we've been getting rid of for a long time. Today we are competing mainly in environmental agreements very transparently and at half price, even at a third price. But I'm not gonna keep a big environmental contract here, like it was all pretentious. So we have open data. And we're really publishing everything. I have to say no to anyone hiding anything. As far as subsidies are concerned, they are, of course, published. Everyone knows about it. Anyone can track it. And the opposition has requested data about my company several times, you've got everything. I really don't know what we're talking about. If you want to know about the Ministry of Finance, it is on data.mfcr.cz and there you have everything published. We don't even need the law to be voted on today, but we've been doing it a long time ago. And Mr Farský proposal is actually from the autumn of 2013, so the question is, why haven't you done so long ago when you're so transparent?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u140	Thank you. Just for the record, I'm saying that there's no open debate. They can only perform... [[Voices from the hall: The Minister opened the debate.]] As the Minister has spoken, there is an open debate. You're right. In that case, I must first give the floor to those who have made a point of fact, which is Mr Bendl. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u141	Thank you. I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Government for opening up the debate on this point and for expressing the views he has now expressed, because if he were to take part in some of the negotiations, by interpolating our Members, he would know specific figures about the number of contracts that are distributed from the hand of the current government guarantee. I have intersected the absent Minister of Agriculture here several times, when I presented here that more than 300 orders, and a large number of them are in the tens of millions of crowns in the field of IT orders, are being distributed out of hand at the Ministry of Agriculture. And so did we yesterday in the framework of the interpellation given by Mr Stanjura, when we asked for information on the area of transport and the functioning of the Czech Railways, where the answer of the YES member showed that some information was rejected or refused to give to Mr Interpelling Members. So that's what they say behind the counter, and something else is actually happening. Again: only in the Ministry of Agriculture can we add the numbers from individual ministers, how many orders this government has handed out from hand, that is to the directly selected candidate, in the so-called single procedure without publication, and that these are the order of hundreds, friends, hundreds, in hundreds of millions of crowns only in the Ministry of Agriculture, is documented in black and white. [[with emphasis]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u142	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Mr. Faltýnek will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u143	The Minister of Finance repeated several times that he really doesn't know what I'm talking about. Well, I'll let him say it one more time. I wasn't talking about whether or not the Treasury is publishing contracts. After all, the publication began long before the Ministry found out. But that wasn't really what we were talking about. There was talk about whether some of us wanted to publish not only their budget and the volume of their subsidies, but also all the contracts they bought for the public property, so that the recipients of public money, because it is the same public property as that of the budget and contribution organisation, would also publish this. In other words, to understand me, Minister, not only do you take these subsidies - we know that there are a lot of them and that you are the largest beneficiary of subsidies in the Czech Republic - but also what and who you buy with the subsidies and under what conditions, because, of course, the taxpayer has the right to know, at least this is what Mr Zemánek's amendment to the Czech Republic sounded exactly as he has the right to know for the Ministry of Finance's contracts, the Ministry of Transport, any other ministry. It's just the same public property! Grants are the same public money as public money managed by budget and contribution organisations. And while we insist on publishing all contracts with budget and contribution organisations, with the beneficiaries of the subsidies, and some have more than the budgets of a number of budget and contribution organisations, the taxpayer will not have the right to do so! [[12.30 hours]] Here's the double standard! That the administrator of the budgetary organisation is obliged to inform the taxpayer of how he treats public property. Private Babiš does not have the slightest interest - and, of course, all Members of his political division, Club YES, voted against this proposal so that private Babiš does not have to familiarize himself with such a taxpayer. He doesn't meet him either. Don't tell me we know everything! We only know how much public budgets you'll take for yourself. But we have no idea what you're doing with that money. And that is what he wanted to uncover and to transparentise Mr Zemánek's proposal and this transparency you have prevented with the help of the staff of your political division. That's what I'm talking about, just so we're clear. That means you won't have to do it any more like you're not doing it now. And it is not true that it would be some kind of violence against private individuals receiving subsidies. Because no one's forcing anyone to take those grants! And if someone wanted to keep their contracts out of the public, they'd just have to turn down the subsidies. Then he wouldn't have such a duty. But like taking donations from people and refusing to tell those people what I'm doing with that money, you call that transparency? That's ridiculous! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u144	Thank you, Mr President. I'm registering a few factual remarks. First of all, Mr Petr Bendl has an envoy, followed by Mr Kolovratník. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u145	I forgot to add one more thing that all orders awarded out of hand worth more than 50 million crowns, which the government is informed of and essentially decides about. There were several over 100 million crowns in the Ministry of Agriculture. So even the Prime Minister can't say that he doesn't know that there's no such thing in the Ministry of Agriculture, but there's no such thing in other matters. It happens regularly and often doesn't really have to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u146	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kolovratník and Mr Vondráček will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u147	I can fit in two minutes' notice, so I don't need an application for a debate. Now Mr. Kalousek here says it's ridiculous. Excuse me, colleague, honestly, I'm laughing at your argument right now. [[President: Through me, if I may ask you.]] Yes. I always thought the TOP 09 was a party that was against regulation, against regulation, against restraint, against unnecessary burden. Suddenly, Mr Kalousek is here defending us for and wants more reporting and more accountability and more information. So I'm just saying, I guess he's never made a donation himself or been there. All beneficiaries of all subsidies, let it be from the state, from national sources, from ministries, from Europe, so they must damn well confess and undress themselves. Every crown must be banished. They get x-checks from the SAO, from the financial authority, from the managing authorities. So those subsidies that bother Mr Kalousek so much in the private sector, they are already being proven. So today, the TOP 09 at the mouth of its club chairman and vice-chairman of the party is suddenly defending us for more reporting and for more materials and work with the finances, perhaps even for duplication. I think it's nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u148	Thank you. Another comment by Mr Vondráček, Mr Kalousek, will be prepared with a factual comment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u149	Thank you for the floor. Now that we've opened up the debate so nicely, Agrofert aside. Mr Kalousek through the President, have you read the amendment? Carefully? It says that a trading corporation that receives, uses or manages more than 20 million in one financial year will have to publish all its contracts. All of them. It just falls into this mode. How's that firm supposed to know in January that he's gonna get 20 miles in December?? Or do they mean the previous financial year? Or is it supposed to publish all the contracts as a precaution? I'm here purely in the context of a factual remark. The amendment is wrong. I can't say it any other way. It is legislatively wrong and would be a threat to the credibility of the law on the register of contracts at all. It would mean a huge collapse, because there are brutal sanctions for the annulment of these treaties and disproportionate interference with the private sphere beyond constitutionality. Because once the money comes into the company's account, and they're already the company's property. And then she runs it. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u150	Thank you. Now, then, President Kalousek, with his point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u151	It is undoubtedly her property that she received from taxpayers, and the bill rightly wants the person who takes money from taxpayers in a certain amount to publish his contracts. Just as budget and contribution organisations publish it. I am very sorry, my colleague, Mr Kolovratník, but he has not really understood what the amendment is about. It's not about billing subsidies. This is about the transparency of organisations that receive taxpayers' money. TOP 09 is and will always be a party that will try to reduce the administrative burden. After all, this will be discussed at the following point. But it will also always be a party that wants the management of public funds to be transparent. And that's what you stopped today. After all, you know why you did it. Because your owner would have to be transparent. And it can only be transparent through the mouth. Not really.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u152	Thank you. Mr Bendl will now make a point of fact, and Mr Laudát will be prepared with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u153	I think we should put it right, as with the subsidies, when the colleague here said that anyone who receives the subsidy must strictly account for it and so on. It is often the case in agriculture that it is a claim subsidy. If you prove that you are entitled to it, that is to say, you will receive aid for land or a grant per hectare, which you cultivate in accordance with the relevant obligations you have to fulfil, so you will be granted the subsidy and no one will ask what you will do with it. You have some obligation to take care of a certain landscape, but no one asks you about contracts, no one asks you if you buy a trip to Bulgaria for it, or whether you buy a tractor or something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u154	Thank you. Now, with Mr Laudát's factual remark, Mr Faltýnek will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u155	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think a colleague Vondráček answered a lot. Because she's magical in Czech, which some people who came here won't understand. Agrofert aside. You have yet to forget, through Mr President, to say the other half: the Agrofert side. I understand you couldn't vote for the motion because you're owed and the chairman would have put you on the stand. So I quite understand. I just didn't hear from one person in your vote that you had a conflict of interest. And to a colleague of the Kolovratník, who, as usual... I don't believe he's stupid enough to misunderstand. If you set the rules, set them fair and square for everyone. And you don't set them up for everyone fair - the YES movement. You selectively remove Babiš and his activities, and others want to punish, stalk and destroy. In a moment, you'll be presenting an outrage called the electronic cash register. So billions of public money subsidies, so the citizen, the taxpayer, doesn't have the right, but you have the right and you have the right to destroy any businessman for hitting one beer and not reporting to headquarters. I think that every decent party, and please, you can introduce social benefits. It's like you said, "We're gonna give someone a pension, we're not gonna give someone a pension." You deform democracy in such a way, I don't know if you even get it. I hope some of them do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u156	Thank you. Now, with Mr Faltýnek's factual remark, Mr Stupčuk will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u157	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, it is clear that Kalousek's precious colleague has not failed again and continues to ride his line. Of course, this is no surprise to us. I would now seriously say that our parliamentary club, although it has not yet succeeded in promoting the publication of live treaties, will support the adoption of this law in the final vote after those two years of debate in the House. And now let me make one comment to explain on a specific example of what Kalousek's precious colleague means. We have subsidies here, as former Minister of Agriculture Bendl said, for example, for the area. The money comes from the European Union. Those subjects that get more than 20 miles a year. CZK, there are thousands in the Czech Republic. And, of course, there are subjects from the Agrofert group. And my colleague Kalousek wants these entities that get the money from Brussels, but also the Czech for the area or for investments under the Rural Development Programme, which is also European money, so that these entities that get more than 20 miles. CZK, they published all their business contracts and thus got them into an uncompetitive environment towards those smaller entities, which will receive only 19.5 million per year. Crowns. And they will no longer have to publish all their trade agreements and will arise on the market, I would say, a very, very special and uneven situation. I don't know what the competition authority would do with this. But I don't want to get into these speculations. Here is just another proof that our precious colleague Kalousek continues his rhetoric, which has neither head nor heel, and it is all nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u158	Thank you. Mr Stupčuk will now prepare Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u159	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to take advantage of this time and, in a friendly spirit, tell my colleague Kolovratník that the Supreme Audit Office is not entitled to control the beneficiary of the subsidy, but only the administrator of the subsidy, i.e. The one who controls the recipient of the grant. In this sense, it is a supercontrol. I would also like to take this factual point before the final vote and ask my colleague Farský, because there is only one more question that remains unanswered to me, and I think it is important for us to know: Who will be responsible for the anonymity of the data that will be the subject of the publication in the contract register? It's going to be the author of the document, that is. Who's gonna send it to the registry, or is it gonna be the registry administrator? Because it is also not stated in the law, and it should be clearly stated whose responsibility it is. Because, of course, it is also based on the application of special laws such as the law on the protection of personal data or trade secrets. It is therefore important to know who will apply these special laws so that those data which are subject to the protection of these laws and have not been published have been anonymized during publication in the register of contracts. So I think that this question is legitimate and that it still owes an answer to it. And so I turn to the petitioner for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u160	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Vondráček, Mr Kučera will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u161	Thank you. I was summoned by my colleague, Laudát, to respond. I liked the pun, it's nice, I'll remember it. But one more time. We have, for example, a business corporation, to be exact, with a budget of 1 billion. CZK 20 million in November. It means she was supposed to publish all her contracts from her private money since January, from the other 980 miles.? And most of the subsidies are minor. How does she know she's gonna get the money in January? And even if she gets them, is it okay for her to publish all her private business cases in this regime? The proposal is just preconceived. There's a risk... and I could go on. There are a lot more ways of misinterpreting this. If the TOP 09 is the right hand side, your voters should be people in this area. Your constituents should thank us for thwarting it, for voting against such a pasquila. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u162	Thank you. Now, with Mr Kučera's point of fact and Mr Kalousek will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u163	Thank you for the floor. I think that your owner, Mr Andrej Babiš, and not our voters, will thank you for this, Mr Vondráček, through Mr President. However, I would have responded with a few words to Mr Faltýnek. I think it may be a pity that this register of treaties has not really worked before, and perhaps this amendment. Because then maybe we wouldn't have the Faltýnkův and Babišův Agrotec case. Perhaps we will not be in a state where, in a year's time, we may have to hand over Mr. Faltýnek to prosecute. But I would like to say that the view there is that who manages public subsidies reveals the contracts and discloses, according to Mr. Faltýnek, the trade secret, the business. But for God's sake, when these construction companies work for the city and for the public administration, they also uncover the conditions they do, at what prices they do. It's obvious. And it is one of the reasons for this register of contracts, to say that we are working transparently. To see how much money the pavements are built in each city, what money the roads are built for, under what conditions public buildings are built. That's one of the purposes of the contract register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u164	Thank you. I'm registering you, Ambassador Jandák, I have you marked in order. Now, with a point of fact, President Kalousek and Mr Urban will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u165	Thank you for the floor. There is probably no point in responding to Mr Vondráček. It's just that if I don't want to admit something, I'm clouding it. But I would like to respond to my colleague Faltýnek, who basically told us what Kalousek wanted. I would like to stress that the amendment was not submitted by a rare colleague, Kalousek. Mr. Zemánek, your coalition partner, handed it over. We supported him. And the same view was expressed in this Chamber of Deputies by 67 Members, so I am obviously not the only one, Mr President, who would like greater transparency for those who accept subsidies from public budgets. Money The European Union is just as much our money as the money from the national budget. After all, Agrofert, if I am not mistaken, collects both from European money and from the national budget. But we are taxpayers in both the two budgets, both national and European. That's just our money. And if you're worried about losing your competitiveness to those who only got 19.5 million, then there's nothing stopping you from taking only 19.5 miles. And then you'd be fully competitive. But that's not enough for you. You want to dig up billions, and you don't want those who sent you billions to see into it. That's what you want, and that's what you've achieved. And no Vondráčkův's mist can explain it. You simply prevented the transparency of those who subsidize your business. You stopped people from seeing what's going on with their money in your balance sheet. That's what you stopped. It's your right. You have the political strength. Your constituents probably equipped you with this mandate to hide what you're doing with their money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u166	Thank you. Now, Mr Urban and Mr Hájek will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u167	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My esteemed colleague, my fellow Members, was interested in one of the things that President Faltýnek said here. He said: If private entities should publish those contracts, it will damage them. That's what's said here, you can all read it in some stent. And I ask, then, how do you who support the law deal with the fact that as owners, you harm companies that are owned by the state in the majority? How do you deal with damage, for example? Budvar? [[12.50 hours]] If that's what you said, if that's what you're saying, you're hurting Budvar, for example. You said it would damage the companies in a fundamental way. So do you measure one meter or two? That's the basic question. And so if they're hurting companies, then of course it's up to them, because the state, virtually. its representatives who exercise shareholder rights are to behave with the care of a proper economic operator. So it either pays and hurts everyone, or it doesn't hurt anyone!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u168	Thank you. Mr Hájek, with a factual remark, will now be prepared by Mr Pleticha with a factual remark. You have your word. [[Messenger. Jandak, who also reported to me: you're pre-shrinking me!]] I have you in line, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u169	Good almost afternoon. What can I say to this debate? [[Nothing from the diaper! - Fun and applause.]] I always like that I'm always involved, sometimes, in Agrofert. I can't tell rye from barley, and I'm still some kind of agrofert. I don't really have anything to do with Agrofert, and I suppose you all know that. I like how Mr. Kalousek is here, it's a famous demagog that he's already raising his successors. Really, Mr. Kučera, hat off. That's a non plus utra reserve! [[Fun.]] Of course, my colleague Kalousek uses a classic weapon - the best defense is the attack. He blew it on us. Well, I don't want to spread my arms, because if I spread it, maybe I'll drop the rapporteur here. I'm sure you don't. I'd rather try the left side, it's on. [[Fun.]] But, of course, what bothers me about unapproved amendments. What bothers me is that they haven't been approved. living contracts, that means contracts, that means contracts that they have... to make it clear they were adopted before this law was effective and they will apply. Mr. Kalousek is smart, he's got it all figured out. He's already told our club president, or he was our party chairman or the movement that they made contracts for arbitration at the Treasury with a secret stamp. That's what was said here. So what really bothers me is that the living contracts aren't, and we can't really look at them, because the contracts have been signed for 20, maybe 50 years somewhere, and we won't look at it. In conclusion, I conclude with this. This proposal was in June 2012. June 2012! The right-wing government had the opportunity to support its Member and his proposal for a year maybe. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Your time, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry!]] So I'm sorry you waited so long. You could have had Agrofert finished in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u170	Thank you. Now, with Mr Pleticha's factual remark, Mr Jandák will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u171	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I am reporting a conflict of interest under Law 159, paragraph 8. In addition to the parliamentary pledge, I also made a representative promise, and this law will damage municipal businesses. That is why I am not voting. I am in the Board of Transport of the towns of Liberec and Jablonec. Similarly, I think all other city representatives who have municipal businesses should do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u172	Thank you. Now, Mr Jandák, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand! [[Laughter.]] I'm a simple simple MP sitting there in the corner; If it wasn't a wall, I'm even further away, but even I sometimes think and watch it from the hill and it's an interesting battle: Babiš, Kalousek, it's cut. [[Entertainment and applause]] But this is where the money flies. My colleague Stanjura pointed it out, and I would like to follow up on that, because we have not noticed somehow that the cleanest of the clean, who have driven us to this law, too, are citizens' initiatives, those enthusiastic young, older, overripe activists who have done nothing but activity all their lives, so you tax payers put in over 600 million of the budget. Kč and these will be uncontrollable. How is that possible, Mr. Speaker? And I challenge you, and my colleague has challenged you, explain to us why they have exceptions! We don't know where they get the money - from the state budget, from abroad, from the private sector? Why are they exempt? Do me a favor and answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u174	Now, with the factual remark of Mr Faltýnek and after him, Mr Laudát. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u175	I am so sorry to be getting off and stalling this meeting, but I am so sorry we aren't listening to each other. And I would now, through Mr President, specifically for Mr Kučera, Mr Kalousek and Mr Urban, set a specific example. The company, which has a thousand hectares, will receive CZK 25 million from Brussels and perhaps partly from Czech money today. A company with 800 hectares gets 19.5 miles. So it's all of us or no one. That's what it was meant technically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u176	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Laudát and then Mr Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u177	Thank you for the floor. I've been whispered to one of your colleagues here that no, not some paycheck from Agrofert. The reality is even worse! He even financed your activities by taxpayers through the Chamber of Deputies. And how can Mr. Hájek and any of you say that you have nothing to do with Agrofert? I don't know, I guess my colleague Koníček would say how much was on the last statement of activity of the parties, that you are being loaned by Agrofert, if I'm not mistaken. Not anymore? [[Mr. Chairman!]] Mr. Chairman, then. Please, you're his debtors, and you're doing party work for his money, so how can you say you had nothing to do with it? You really do!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u178	Mr Kalousek, Mr Jakubčík, is now making a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u179	I think in two minutes I can fit the reaction to the gentlemen of Mr Hájek, Mr Faltýnek and Mr Jandák. Yes, Mr Jandák asked the question correctly, and I will answer - as we voted in favour of Mr Zemánek's proposal, so we also voted in favour of Mr Foldyna's proposal. It's all of us or no one. We wished that both private companies - recipients of public subsidies and civil associations - would have to publish their contracts. However, neither of these amendments has received a majority, especially because of the votes YES, which are most likely to outlive associations and civil associations, but, of course, they cannot afford private companies because they are not all or no one. That is what we wanted, what Mr Faltýnek said - either everyone or no one, whereas the ANO movement clearly approaches this: all show your treaties, but Agrofert, who takes much more than all the civil associations every year together... [[But at least he's producing something! - Thunderous laughter and applause.]] Since it wasn't for the sound recording, Mr Jandák said he's producing something. Yes, that's what we see here that they produced today - total unfair non-transparency and hiding from taxpayers what's going on with their money. [[Fun and applause TOP 09 and ODS]] This produces Agrofert's political division as an ANO MP. I repeat once again that the two proposals were proposals by social democratic Members and we supported them because they were proposals that led to greater transparency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u180	Thank you. For the record, I am merely asking you not to shout after yourself, honourable Members. [[Messenger. God forbid!]] God chraň, I know. Now, Mr Jakubčík, with a factual remark, and after that, President Stanjura, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing hundreds of laws here. At least, or maybe half of them we hear: that's wrong, because there are exceptions, that's wrong, because there are exceptions. This law is directly charged with these exceptions. That is why I personally cannot agree with this bill and cannot support it. Just as it was said here: all or no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u182	Thank you. Now, therefore, with a factual remark, President Stanjura and Mr Hájek will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u183	So I have a feeling that with the obstruction that Andrej Babiš created, we won't be able to vote until 14 o'clock, and the law won't pass today. I don't see why not. I was intrigued by President Faltýnek's speech, saying: "All or no one, all or nothing." Although we do not have a merged debate with paragraphs 13 and 14, we will shortly be at point 13, where the ANO movement vehemently asserts that they will not all have those senseless EETs, but only some. [[Voice from the O.R.]] Not yet. No, just some. And if we go back to the state companies, we'll have one brewery in the Czech Republic that will be published. What about the others? I mean, you guys were all in favor of having state-owned businesses there. Yeah, well, if this brewery was getting funding, why not, it's totally fine. But not really, because the point didn't pass. My colleague Vondráček is an experienced lawyer and he makes a very good argument and he knows that it is a good method to give absurd examples. So, if he had read, or even President Faltýnek, the bill he signed, but he does not actually apply, because a comprehensive amendment will apply to a completely different law than the one we started with, it says, for example, that information that cannot be disclosed under the hundredth century is not even published under this law. So, what about business secrets with the private corporations, how worried are you that everything's gonna go public? Well, according to the hundred-six, it can't be published, so it can't be published according to this. But I could... I won't use equally absurd examples. I'm going back to State Reconstruction. I'm not quoting from all the e-mails I've been getting in the last three years since 2012. And you, the heroes of YES 2011, have decided that they do not have to publish contracts, and you pretend that you are for transparency. And then you ask, "Everyone or nobody?" Well, some didn't, especially those who wanted it with the others. It's kind of a popular method. Wow, but I'm not, I'm the good guy. The bad guys have it published.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u184	Thank you. Mr Hájek, Mr Komárek, is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u185	One more time, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be brief. I must respond to the words of my dear František, who has told us all here that Mr Babiš is the largest money lender of the ANO movement. It doesn't bother me, it doesn't bother me much more than the fact that Mr. Bakala was the biggest sponsor of TOP 09! I don't want to use words like Mr. Kalousek always says, beating himself to the last drop of blood, sweat and everything. I've actually been working, digging coal hard in the sweat of my face, in the sweat of that moth. [[Report to the O.R.]] So from my money, from the money of my miners, from the money of the tenants of OKD Bakal's apartments, he got the money he gave here through Mr. President František. František, is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u186	Thank you. Now, Mr Komárek, Mr Zahradník will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request. After long months and years, we approve a law for which the public waits impatiently and which is certainly necessary, for which part of the coalition and part of the opposition will certainly agree. Please, let's not get political points with this debate right now, we won't get them anyway. The only way we're gonna get them is if we vote for this law. I beg you, everyone, let's vote!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u188	Thank you. Now, Mr Zahradník and then Vice-President Filip with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u189	Mr Vice-President, Mr Jandák, a moment ago asked the question of where money is being received for various non-profit, non-governmental, activist organisations. When you look at State Reconstruction, there is a need for a known Bold Bold organization among its member organizations, which is a code name for Environmental Legal Services. And among its donors, Bold Bold has, for example, the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic, Europe for Citizen, European Climate Foundation, European Commission for Prevention and Combating Crime, National Agency for European Educational Programmes, Czech-Swiss Cooperation Programme, then there is one more, but I cannot find it now. But they're all public money donors. Two million is here, Mr Jandák, through the Vice-President, they're right here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u190	Thank you. And I repeat again, Mr Jandák, that we should not shout at each other and be so spontaneous. Now Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u191	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen. The authors of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies considered in a simple way that the fundamental debate on the text of the law is being held in the first reading, its meaning in second reading is being discussed as to whether to maintain it, amend it and how it will be developed in the committees. And then what the House will do to him. In the third reading, as the law says in Section 95, most discussions were not conducted. The fact that we continue to guide it shows that this law cannot be approved in the form that we have approved the amendments. According to Article 95 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 I propose that this law be returned to This debate does not belong here, it belongs back to second reading, back to committees, because this is not possible! [[Very emphatically]] You're disrespecting the Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let us stick to what we have to do in this House - honestly work off a law that can apply, not harm citizens of the Czech Republic!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u192	Since this is a procedural proposal, I must put it to a vote without debate. In that case, I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a request for your check-out. In that case, I'll have you all checked out... [[Off-the-Mike briefing.]] I have consulted the motion with Vice-President Filip. We have agreed that the proposal to return to second reading will follow the end of the debate, so that we respect the Rules of Procedure. In this case, we will continue the debate, which is open, and I have Mr Jandák here, with a point of fact. [[Member Jandak from the O.R.: I cancel the application.]] You're interrupting, thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Blažek, after whom Mr Fiedler. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u193	Hello, thank you for your word. The debate was opened by Minister Babiš, so after those two years, I said that I would already comment on some of the statements that he has over and over again, and that is the so-called '90s', as it was in 1990, whereupon he would look significantly at the TOP 09, at the ODS, and I don't know who. And yet it must be said that we have biographies, Minister Babiš, very different. I am in the 1990s, which is a period for you, as you often say, and actually today, some non-transparent, unserious, incorrect, has not signed a single treaty with the state. You shut down dozens, hundreds, maybe a thousand in the time that the system you're attacking was worth billions. And there's one thing that needs to be said - that your criticism is extremely false. 'Cause if there's no bullshit going on, it's gonna take two. One who took something from the property of the state that he shouldn't have taken, and they also had to be the ones who gave. And there's no doubt at all that you were on the other side. So you really can't keep using that simple rhetoric for 25 years. In the state sphere, maybe, but without people like you, it wouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u194	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Fiedler and then by President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u195	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I really was not interested, I had no idea that I would be speaking in this debate, but I was encouraged by a fellow Member of the Member Slávek Jandák with his speeches. I would just like to say that I agree with what my colleague Jandák said, with his contribution, the content of his contribution, which he said here. And on that basis, I looked into the vote on the amendment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u196	I'm sorry, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u197	Thank you. And my colleague Jandák spoke of the M amendment to Mr Foldyna. And I looked into the mess, as the ČSSD MP voted. 23 votes supported by Jark Foldyna's proposal, five against it, and when those nonprofit organizations and all these, about what Slávek Jandák was talking about falls under the Office of the Government, I would therefore be interested in the Prime Minister's reply to why he voted against this proposal, his explanation, against his membership club. Otherwise, on behalf of the Dawn MEP, I would like to say that we will support the proposal to return to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u198	Thank you. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u199	I'm sorry to talk about my side, but some untrue information can't stay in the air so it doesn't seem to be true. Here was the sentence that Mr. Bakala was the biggest sponsor of the TOP 09. That's not true. In 2010, Mr Bakala donated 15 million ODS, 7 million TOP 09 and 6.5 million Public Affairs. With seven million for the TOP 09, he wasn't the biggest sponsor. After all, we keep a transparent account and everyone can check it out. I am not aware that any of Mr. Bakal's gifted parties will do any good in his business. We didn't push him through biofuels, we didn't get him tax breaks, we didn't get him billions of subsidies, we didn't manipulate orders for him in the Czech Post office or we didn't get him contracts in the Forests of the Czech Republic. There are other political parties and their owners for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-18-ps2013-031-04-003-154.u200	Thank you. Since there are no factual points... I'm registering Prime Minister Faltýnek with priority rights, so I'd like to ask if his application stands. It's not like that. As no one else is reporting for the debate, I am ending the debate. First, before I vote on individual proposals, I will read the note. Today, from 14:00 p.m., Mr David Kádner apologizes for business reasons. During the debate - yes, I will call my colleagues from the lobby - there was a proposal to return to second reading, which was made by Vice-President Filip. I'll check you all out, and I'll ask you to come forward. And I'm opening the vote, and I'm asking who's in favour of returning this press to second reading, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? We have a vote with order number 140. 159 Members and Members are registered. For 57, against proposal 78. This proposal was rejected. As all proposals have been voted on, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members of Jan Farský, Andrej Babiš, Pavel Bělobrádek and others to issue the Act on the Register of Contracts and to amend Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, according to the House of Press 42 and as approved by the Chamber of Deputies'. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this motion for a resolution to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 141, registered 157 Members and Members, for proposal 116, against 7. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm done discussing this point, and I'm opening up another item that's on the agenda. It's him.
