ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u1	31. Government bill amending Act No. 309/2006 Coll., which regulates other health and safety requirements at work in employment relations and on the provision of health and safety in activities or the provision of services outside employment relations (the Act on the Protection of Other Conditions for Safety and Health at Work), as amended, Act No. 251/2005 Coll., on Labour Inspection, as amended, and Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Business Enterprise (Livning Act), as amended /German press 462/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, thank you for the floor. This proposal responds to user experience -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask my colleagues to keep their voice down, especially in the left side of the hall. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u4	Thank you. This proposal responds to the experience of users of the amended regulations from recent years, and these changes are mainly based on the results of the inspections of the State Labour Inspection Office based in Opava, as we have heard today, at workplaces and, above all, on construction sites. They are also based on the results of two projects announced and commissioned by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in this area. Further from the requirements of other institutions, such as: The Czech Mining Authority, as well as the requirements of representatives of the professional public, in particular professionally qualified persons, to carry out tasks in the prevention of risks and OSH coordinators at the post. Furthermore, knowledge was also used from the Ministry's own controls. The aim is mainly to precise already established concepts, adjust the qualification assumptions for obtaining expertise in risk prevention and OSH coordinator, introduce a new type of test in order to re-acquire the qualifications of a qualified person. It is also the introduction of evidence of professionally qualified persons, it is also a partial modification of the obligations of the contracting authority, the OSH coordinator, the professionally qualified person in risk prevention and also another aim is the introduction of offences and administrative offences of professionally qualified persons, in particular the OSH coordinator. In response to this amendment of the law, there will then be an amendment to the legislation implementing the Act on ensuring further conditions of safety and health at work, where the terms of the legislation and the adaptation of the implementing rules will also be harmonised. So I believe that these proposed changes will receive the support of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and please let the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Radka Maxová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I think in brief, the Minister has summed this up. I will just add that I would recommend that this House press be released for further reading, because the changes that are reflected in this amendment are based on urgent requirements in practice, will make a fundamental contribution to improving the safety of work in the workplace. Since we have actually had a report this week that, with regard to construction, our work accidents are increasing and the safety of work is not well ensured and that institutions such as the Czech Mining Authority, the State Labour Inspection Office and also representatives of public expertise have participated in the modification of this amendment, I recommend that this House press be released until further reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u7	I thank the rapporteur and I am now opening up a general debate in which I record two applications - Mrs Adamová and Mr Opálka. I'd like to see Mrs. Adamová's mike. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's proposal for an amendment to Act No. 309/2006 Coll., which regulates other health and safety requirements at work in employment relations and on ensuring health and safety in activities or the provision of services outside employment relations, i.e. the Act on the Protection of Other Conditions for Safety and Health at Work, is a brief amendment, but I have quite a lot of reservations about it. The law itself illustrates the principle that power is harmful to everything, which is also evident from its extensive text, which takes up almost five lines. The Act follows as a special regulation the general provisions of the Labour Code. Except for exceptions, the law does not distinguish the size of the construction or the companies moving on the construction. It may be appropriate for large constructions carried out by large construction companies, but it certainly is not appropriate for small constructions and small construction companies, typically for repairs of family houses and the like. The diction of the law is based on the principle of alibism, when it is necessary to describe everything in paper, but really nobody works according to it, because it just doesn't have time to read to be competitive in the efficiency of work. The draft amendment does not remove these fundamental shortcomings of the law or reduce them, on the contrary, it strengthens them. The amendment specifies the requirements for the safety and health plan at work at the construction site, which is defined in the draft accompanying decree as a text of 20 mandatory points. So it will actually contain at least a few dozen pages of text. In which cases there is an obligation to process the plan, it also provides for an implementing decree, and it would be appropriate to incorporate the regulation directly into the wording of the law in order to strengthen legal certainty. Of course, a normal construction worker doesn't read the plan. However, everyone will be responsible for its compliance and in the event of a security incident, who will be affected for the failure to comply with the plan. In order to be absurd enough, the amendment states that the plan is compulsory for buildings where the contractor is the investor himself, if the employer, for example, is a businessman employing one employee, for example an accountant. This means that if, as a businessman with at least one employee and at the same time as the owner of a family house, I will paint windows above 10 metres above ground level, one example for which the implementing decree requires the drawing up of a plan, I should, according to the proposed amendment, draw up a health and safety plan at work. This contradicts both the title and the orientation of the law. And it is up to us to see if this is also an intervention in fundamental human rights. In addition, the amendment and the proposed accompanying implementing decree - which, of course, may look different in the end, is attached to the draft amendment as an informative annex according to the Government's legislative rules - details of the tests of the safety coordinator on the construction, namely that the test consists of several test circuits, in each of which the applicant then passes a written test containing several dozen questions, and an oral examination consisting of an answer to the question raised. The amendment introduces a register of professionally qualified persons, which should therefore be kept by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm asking here why it shouldn't be the State Labour Inspection Office, which carries out a follow-up check. This means other expenditures of the state budget, other administrative costs for employers. I recommend to the petitioner, i.e. the Minister, that she, as the petitioner, propose the repeal of the law and the transfer of essential provisions to the Labour Code, thereby increasing the clarity and clarity of legislation, facilitates orientation for businessmen and control bodies in legislation. In other words, I would like to propose rejecting the law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u9	Yes, thank you, and please, to the microphone of the next logged in, and that is Mr. Opálka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, if I had to briefly express this proposal, I would have to say: It is nothing but lives. The aim is to reduce the injury rate in construction, which cannot be without greater administration, unfortunately. Qualification, motivation and control activities. This cannot be done without the enforcement of the law, especially for builders at construction sites. And it doesn't matter if it's a small or large building, the trauma rate is high. To support such tightening, I will give an example of the fact that, as part of the checks on the causes of accidents at work, the labour inspection authorities were found, for example, in 2013, that around 85 per cent of the fatal accidents at the construction sites occurred from all recorded fatal accidents at work in the Czech Republic. And when we look at the information that was said in the media this week, the situation is getting worse compared to 2014 in 2015. Where, then, do we look for the causes? We may have different views on this politically, but I think that our people's lives and, ultimately, accidents at work with lasting consequences are a warning. At present, the work of the Safety and Health Coordinator is at work at construction sites in the Czech Republic, as demonstrated by the knowledge and experience of labour inspection authorities, often inadequate, unprofessional and also occasional. This, among other things, is due to the low remuneration assigned to them by the contracting authorities of the buildings for their activities. This, of course, also affects the overall price of competition. There is also a lack of legal support for sanctions by supervisory authorities when we call for more work, which not only reduces the effectiveness of controls, but also the effective ability of the style to enforce compliance with established obligations. In the end, you know how they do on large constructions of control. Controllers come from one side, and from the other side they run for hours of hired workers, especially foreign workers. By approving the amendment, such administrative offences will enter into the rule of law, which should be prosecuted more specifically and more strictly in the course of the infringement and in the framework of administrative proceedings. Although the cost of state and public budgets is not foreseen in the material, it can be assumed that more more more and more demanding regulations will be required by coordinators with higher qualification requirements, which, of course, will affect their own costs, as I have already pointed out, will affect the prices of construction works in tenders. But in the end, it's all about life and health again. Thus, unspecified savings of money can be achieved by the expected reduction in fatal accidents and accidents at work and occupational diseases on the part of public health and sickness insurance, accident insurance and disability and disability benefits from the social system. Finally, I would like to point out that this is one of the few proposals that is based on long-term needs, as they were shown in practice, and, of course, also brought about by the new Civil Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-27-ps2013-027-08-010-031.u11	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the appellant, the rapporteur, whether they are interested in the final word. Neither is Madam Secretary. Okay. Before we go any further, I will call my colleagues from the lobby, because we must deal with Mrs Adamová's proposal to reject the proposal in the first reading. Before I do, I'm going to sign you all off, and I'm asking you to register with your cards again. [[12.20 hours]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of rejecting the proposal in the first reading. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 201. There are 130 registered, for 25, against 97. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. So we're going to vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 202, to which 133 are registered. For 128, versus 1. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if anyone has a motion on the commandment of the next committee for discussion. It's not like that. So thank you, and I'm done discussing this point. We will now proceed to discuss item number
