ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u1	89. Members of jeroný Tejc, Jaroslav Foldyna, Michal Hašek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended / House print 181/ - 3rd reading I ask that the rapporteur's table take its place Tejc, as well as the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is Mr Grospič. The amendments are in press 181/4, were delivered on 9 April and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 181/5. I will ask the appellant if he wants to speak before the debate is opened. He does. Please, you have the right, and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We have already talked a lot about the topic of executions and their proportionality, so I will not be forced to respond to some speeches, so I would radically shorten my performance and we could therefore work, that is to vote on the amendments. I will draw attention to one single point where I would like us not to support it. This concerns Amendment B2 and Amendment B4. We, on the constitutional committee in this comprehensive amendment, have determined that it will not be possible if our proposal passes to be less than 30 000 debts. CZK sold properties in which the debtor lives. That is, to pay protection in case someone has a debt of 5 - 10 thousand. CZK, has a property, an apartment or a house, and it could not be sold for such a small debt. Of course, if the debts were added up or if it was a debt caused by a crime, albeit less than 30 grand. CZK, or it would be a maintenance debt, so the protection would be broken and the apartment or the house could be sold. However, the B2 and B4 amendment, which I do not recommend, speaks of protection being granted only for one year. I'm afraid it wouldn't be functional, and I don't think it's right to sell property and roof over the debtor's head anytime for these small debts, if they live in it. Not if it has two or three, of course it doesn't apply there. So that's my only point. Otherwise, we tried to merge another 372 printing with this printing. We have accepted a number of proposals from the Ministry of Justice, to which I thank for cooperation, and I think that we could have a solution to the question of executions until a government bill is submitted, which will address the issue more comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I'm opening the debate. I have two applications so far - Mr Blažek and Mr Chvojka. So Mr Blažek has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u4	Hello, thank you for your word. I would like to stress that the ODS will not vote in favour of most of the proposals on this proposal. And I guess it's worth saying why. The first thing is that the government promises and interprets for a year and a half that it will present some complex amendment to the law or some new law that will comprehensively modify the issue of execution. The government, as it's become customary, hasn't submitted anything at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u5	Ambassador, I'm very sorry, I'm just going to ask the plaintiff to turn off their microphone because their conversation is heard and we have bad experience here from the last time. [[Smile in the hall.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u6	And so we are developing folk creativity here, which unfortunately is not often driven by the intention to improve the situation, but by the intention that anyone who opposes the bailiffs today or will stand up for debtors, so it leads to a very fake and dangerous media wave. Because the normal thing is that debts are paid, and the excessive protection of the debtors we're starting to go to isn't gonna help the debtors either. And let me tell you why. We experienced the 1990s when the state was not prepared for a new type of economy and what many remember was almost impossible to recover some claim. After many years, we have reached a state where there is already some experience in recovering debts and there is also some kind of established case law, i.e. That basically all the players on that field know the rules. These amendments put us back in a state where we prepare an ongoing enforcement procedure for people to start judging again whether or not they can take it or not. The believer will be sitting at home and won't understand at all what these disputes are all about. And you know what he'll do? Well, he does it often - and that's why it's an amendment that doesn't benefit debtors either - that he's simply not going to recover debts through the state, which is happening today, but we're going to go back to that style of violence or violence. The world in which we live today as regards execution is relatively balanced. He has his flaws, I'm not saying he doesn't. But the way in which, in the media style of the Hawk against the Hrdlička, when every debtor today is taken to be essentially the positive figure, while creditors and executors are basically villains, even though they enforce claims that people have committed themselves to... It's not that there's a debt and these people are in some situation they didn't cause, and now they don't know what to do with the situation. Let me stay with the Jestřáb against the Hrdlička. This is actually a 19th-century novel or judge Svatopluk Čech and was beautifully abused under the previous regime by the famous 1953 film, when - and this is exactly what we are starting to live in today - Mr Smolík plays the debtor, i.e. A positive character, and the Jestřáb is already in the name of the villainous creditor who viciously wants only to get his money back. But what's important is the hrdlička in this novel and in this movie doesn't get in debt because she can't afford bread and that she can't live. He is in debt because his daughter and wife have excessive financial claims and he wants to meet those claims. Today, debts do not arise in the vast majority because people have nothing to live on, have no place to live, etc., although I suppose a colleague named Semelová would describe it this way. But that's not the reality. These debts often or most often arise because people want to have the latest phone, the latest TV, the newest dishwasher. And we're going to be here crying over the fate of these people, who may often grow up in situations that are not easy, but the state is not here to overprotective this particular population group. Relationships between creditors and debtors have always been a topic. And so let me say one more comment from the literature, and that's the famous scene from Haškov's Haškův, when the Feldkurat Katz - and that's the sentence I'd like to stick to - says simply: That's what we do when people lend us money. With these amendments, which we will now approve, we will come to the conclusion that the debtor will again have lots and lots of other obsessives, how to avoid fulfilling the obligations to which I repeat he has committed himself. Look at the political spectrum today. When I look around, in principle - the exception is Mr Chvojka, who has tabled proposals that I consider reasonable - the debtors today have representation in the KSČM, in the ČSSD, in the Úsvit movement. It is legitimate that these parties represent a group. And who's representing that creditor today? Nobody! All of us, after some reports, mostly on TV, where there's one case out of a million executions a year that looks terribly tragic, and we come up with some novels, hoping that the people will appreciate how good we are and take care of those weak groups. We don't care about them. If we keep going in this direction, that is. If we override the balanced relationship between the creditor and the debtor, we will find that creditors will not recover claims through the State, but will enforce them differently. And that's a condition that we shouldn't reach. Personally, I think it would be good to wait for what the Justice Department will submit if they submit something and talk about some complex amendment. Let us remember that there is nothing worse than the state of legal uncertainty in these matters. It's not like it's a month to not accept a novel in these matters. Nobody knows anything about it. Again, it is no problem for a large creditor to hire some Ukrainian group to recover the claim. But the little ones don't have that opportunity, and they'll be waiting for the courts to kindly deal with whether or not the TV I'm listening to in these new designs, or that property, and even the property of the bailiff, or whoever's claiming his claims, could have confiscated or couldn't have been the means to redeem the claim, or couldn't have. So I think that this amendment is already in a state that is beginning to protect too much someone that the state doesn't have so much to protect, and I am convinced that a society that will allow people not to have to fulfill the responsibilities they have committed themselves to has no right to survive. What we're starting to accept here, what we're listening to here, is neither moral nor politically correct, and it's not right or legal. That is why I think this amendment should not be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u7	Thank you. Mr Blažek's performance has sparked a number of reactions. I have a lot of facts here, then one priority. Mr Kováčik, the first in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Grace, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I must respond to the account of my colleague Blažek's speech through you, Mr President. It's about the different view of the world as there was a speech yesterday on another occasion. While some are looking at the world from above, i.e. by the optics of the top ten or 100 thousand, our view is the bottom view, the optics of those perhaps hundreds of thousands of affected, whom Mr Blažek spoke a little with respect, using the name of Mrs Semelová. Yes, they are, and there are tens of thousands of them, maybe hundreds of thousands who got into execution without their own guilt or who got into execution in a desperate life situation, where they really didn't even have enough to live or make a living, maybe for drugs, maybe for children's education. It's not more expensive, it's better cell phone or tablet. Indeed, this is not true of these people. And we are behind those that, as Mr Blažek said, Mrs Semelová would have seen differently. In this case, Mrs Semelová sees it quite correctly. We will therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u9	Another factual point, Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u10	Thank you for the floor. I admit I'm always looking forward to my colleague Blažek's performance because he's a funny, educated, smart guy, always amusing me. I'm just not sure we're commenting on the same text, if we have the same novel in front of us. I only have one reminder. We don't accept another novel here every month. We started in 2013 and this is the second one. So if it adds up, it won't be like every month. But most importantly, what's going on physically in that novel? There it specifies the list of inhospitable things during mobiliar executions, something that was already in the law. And because it's caused some problems in practice, it's more precise now. Those executors who did it the way they're supposed to do it, they've done it the same way. And in order to avoid any problems in the place that I've even talked about here, which I've been through, and some interpretational problems, it's just going to go into the law - I don't want to say for the stupid ones - it's going to write down. That's the first thing. Second thing, it's housing protection. We can discuss this in a matter of fact. I'd like us to have this discussion more if it's well written and not if it's duel versus creditors. [[9.50 hours]] Then there is the third crucial thing, that is the part that was created in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, and that is that there is the order in which the executioner should proceed. That he should go to the account first, then to the salary, then to the wife's wages, if it doesn't help, then to the real estate, in the end to the Mobiliar execution. That he should proceed from less invasive ways of execution to more invasive ones. And that's the thing that the executors who do it well, and she really is most of them, so they do it anyway. But now it's going to be on paper, and the couple that are constantly going on about excesses that we're reading about, they're going to have to follow it. So, from my perspective, that's the content of this novel. And please, I'd love to hear it, but let's try to talk about what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u11	Another factual one, Mr Schwarz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u12	Good morning, colleagues. It's hard for me to talk, Mr. Kováčik would make me talk hard, but I'm going to talk a little bit better after my colleague Vondráček. I respect my colleague Blažek very much. He's got good humor, he's smart, he knows what he's talking about. But this time I think, I would like to warn him through the President today that it is really important that he read this before speaking as an opposition Member. He just separated us and said that who stands up for debtors and who stands up for creditors. I'm sorry, I applied, he didn't respond to me, I'm defending the creditors. If he reads my proposal, it's strictly for creditors. And if anyone stands up for that or that, it's really about clearly defined executions. It's not about the debtors - creditors. You really need to read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u13	Thank you. Before I give priority and proper, we must complete the factual remarks. Member Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u14	Good morning, thank you for the floor. I, through Mr President, would, of course, go to Mr Blažek: Mr Member, I agree with what you have said here about the creditors. But unlike you, I think, and just through Mr President, you... That time doesn't suit me a bit, Mr President. [[on the light board]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u15	Yes, I haven't connected it yet. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u16	Thank you. Even from you, I think it's common to expect that you don't see the world in black and white. And I think your note was a little black and white. Those creditors aren't just poor creditors, and those debtors aren't just the bad guys who owe them. We would certainly find a lot of examples where different loans are provided, where providers, finance traders, calculate that this will get to the recovery phase. It's a case that's out of the question. That's where I think we might find a match. So I appeal not to look at it in black and white. Let us consider this really, factually, and I repeat, that is why the proposals that our colleague has also been working on, and we have been doing a lot on this subject, I think, the chairman of the club Marek Černoch. We have dealt with this issue a great deal. It's not black and white at all. They are debtors who are legally owed and are rightly prosecuted and sanctioned. And then I think it's not small at all, I don't want to speculate about size, but let's say a very large proportion of debtors who have problems and are often very problematic to prosecute. So I appeal to it, let's not look at it in black and white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u17	Thank you. Another de facto Mr Plzák. Then with the de facto Mr. Blackman? With a point of fact?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honourable members of the government, I will also present my colleague Blažek. I don't want to side with creditors or debtors. I just want to say one thing on a very general level. I mean, no one's forcing those creditors to lend. Even the guy who lent for eggs, peasants, etc. In Švejk to the Feldkurat, he had to count on lending to soldiers who were going to war. And then he held his head there. So tell me why they're borrowing when they can figure out what the assets of a potential borrower are. It's a completely voluntary state, no one's forcing anyone to do anything. They just go into some kind of risk, of course, and they just really carry the risk. The creditor is a creditor, he goes willingly, he lends, he lends to the socially weak - he has to reckon with the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u19	Thank you. A real Mr. Black man. President Kalousek will be ready. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u20	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. With all due respect to Mr Blažek - by your means, Mr President - my colleague Fiedler has already said so. They're not just bad guys or just good guys. They're bad and good. And the bad guys have rights today that they're using, which is a problem. This amendment, this proposal is about making the situation more specific. Not in any way to change overall in favour of debtors. Because the moment someone lends money, they really have to assume that there might be a problem with a refund. And then what happens when they walk and say that they're actually only one victim - it's not true. Of course, debts have to be paid and no one wants to defend only debtors. At this point, I think it's about the debate that, of course, even those who lend money have rights. But there's also some justice, some rule of law. And if he's taking advantage of this really human misfortune business, which is what it is, and it's reality, just look at the data, then there's some way we need to make it clear. I think that's what this novel is all about. It's not about the situation turning around, but it's about the order. And one more thing. Enforcement is already a consequence. But the question is why non-bank institutions do not have the same responsibilities as those of banks. Because if the bank rejects the loan, the guy goes to a non-bank institution, he gets a loan there, and he immediately gets into that spiral. Here I think it would also be necessary to make order in this. 'Cause you said everyone did this to themselves. I don't think that's entirely true. Yes, someone did, someone did it to themselves. But a lot of people really aren't to blame for the execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u21	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, a point of fact. Mr Plíšek, Mr Grospič and then Mr Opálka, will be prepared after him, all factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u22	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, execution is, of course, a very frustrating matter in which emotion flows. But let us not eat in behalf of one or the other. Let's see what kind of legal environment we live in. And here I will elaborate on what Mr. Černoch and Mr. Plzák have said. In all civilised countries of the Euro-Atlantic space for licensed providers of financial products, i.e. also for credit providers, the obligation of responsible lending is enshrined in the law. This means the creditor finds out whether the debtor is able to repay. Of course, there is no such obligation for unlicensed people, and if I lend to Tejc, that obligation does not apply to me legally, but can be deduced. It can be deduced that I should behave the same way. This means, of course, the debtor is obliged to pay his claim, but both have the responsibility. Because a creditor has a liability for responsible lending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u23	Thank you. Mr Plíšek, Mr Grospič will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u24	Mr President, dear colleagues, fellow Members, TOP 09 will support this proposal, because we have been involved in the adaptation of the original press submitted by Mr Tejc from the outset. For us, the original version, which was relatively taxative from the point of view of mobile executions, from the point of view of property values, was not acceptable, however, the modification, which specifically specifies, for example, things of a personal nature which cannot be confiscated during execution, is acceptable. I also agree that it is not possible to deflect greater protection in favour of the debtor. It must simply be an equilibrium relationship with the fact that debts have to be paid. And this, in my opinion, does not interfere with this amendment. The amendment includes, for example, the obligation to take audio and video recordings during execution. I don't know if this provision is more for the protection of the debtor or the creditor. As far as I know, it is very often questionable how the execution itself took place. And here, of course, after prior notice of the mandatory one, it will be announced and should not be a problem. [[10.00 hours]] By the way, this amendment is directly linked to a novel that we approved here a few weeks ago, which was supposed to protect and accentuate the relationship between husbands in case they have a shared property or do not live together and there is a need to protect the debtor's husband in some way. One final point. If the Ministry of Justice had been active last year and presented its proposals to us, Members across the political spectrum did not have to replace the inaction of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u25	Mr Grospič with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My esteemed colleagues, I will follow with permission the words of my previous speaker precisely by going through the constitutionally legal committee across the political spectrum to a large extent and following the amendment which has already been passed through the Chamber of Deputies and which protects the spouses or provides them with some degree of protection in common ownership within the framework of execution. Certainly the situation is not ideal and it would be much better if today we had a proposal for an amendment or a new law, which would be prepared directly by the Ministry of Justice, discussed by the Legislative Council of the Government and came here as a comprehensive proposal to address problems that accumulate in the area of execution. I see the reservations of both executors and creditors and, of course, debtors. And I think that the proposed amendment is a compromise that can suit both parties, but in particular, and from our point of view it is essential, it will tighten up and in some ways allow a greater level of protection for debtors when certain excesses may occur, which are the subject of major media incidents in terms of perhaps an exhaustive list of unusable things. I also see the issue of audiovisual intentions, I know that this is one of the great criticisms of the Executor Chamber, on the other hand, I think that such an institute can bring more protection to all interested parties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u27	Thank you. So far, the final point of fact. No, three more. Mr Opálka, then Mrs Válková, then Mr Blažek. If it's proper, Mr. Ambassador, it's on the list. There's more. Mr. Opálka, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to forward what has not yet been said here, and that is the issue that in this country, and sociologists and psychologists are arguing whether 20 or 30 percent of citizens have the mental capacity to plan time in their imagination. Some are able to plan from day to day, some maybe for a week, for a month, but the ability to plan and think things over for a longer period of time is simply not given to them mentally. They too need to be protected in their own way, and the state does so by its laws. They also do so by being compulsory insured in health, sickness, retirement, because if we leave it to them, they will be able to spend money during the first week and will not collect funds for their next life in any way. I would therefore like to say that, of course, it is necessary to guard both the protection of creditors and the debtor, whom the State protects not only within some balanced level playing field, but also by being aware that some need greater protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u29	Thank you. Mrs Válková, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u30	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have been indirectly invited in one speech. To explain. Of course, it would be better to have a comprehensive amendment proposal on the table, and it was also in the legislative work plan. My first deputy, the current Minister of Justice, has decided to implement this, and I have agreed to this, of course, a thorough economic analysis of all aspects, and I assume that this will also be reflected in an amendment that will be comprehensive and will correspond as accurately as possible to the real economic conditions. It is, of course, nothing less and more as consideration for and against the principle of territoriality. Now for the novel. It is precisely because we know that some rules need to be changed as quickly as possible, as has been said here, for example. in the speech by Mr Vondráček, the Ministry of Justice has always agreed that the constructive parliamentary proposal which brings this change should be submitted and positively, I hope, then adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. This is only to explain that the Ministry of Justice in this regard, if it has fallen asleep, it is about sleeping in quotation marks, because it was waiting for the results of the economic analysis, which it processed for the purposes of the comprehensive amendment of the University of Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u31	Thank you. Mr Blažek, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u32	Mr President, all by your means in bulk, so that I do not refrain from doing so. A colleague of Mr. Vondráček. I read it. To my colleagues at Dawn. It was said here that some claims, if they were even right. They're all being enforced rightfully, because it was decided by the court or some administrative office, and something that wasn't. So everything is enforced rightly. I didn't say all claims were made by people wanting to have the most modern ones at home, I said most of them. I think I'm right. Following up on my colleague Kalousek, he said it very nicely that even the creditor has some responsibility. I'm gonna say it again from Švejk, that's the unfortunate creditor who also chose the Feldkurate as a debtor, which a normal person doesn't. But there's another important sentence. The believer says, "Did this war come about just to shut down all the debtors?" I am just warning you: Is this House and this state only exist to complicate the recovery of claims that people have committed themselves to? Of course not. And I'm saying we're starting to take this step, and I think I'm right. And the last thing - and I can be alone, I've been used to it my whole life. [[with a smile]] And then the other thing, and that's important, too. When a colleague from TOP 09 said that there was a recording -- well, who's it going to again? It'll be more expensive, of course, the execution, the recording. That doesn't help the debtor. That is a fine intention not to let lawlessness take place there. And who's gonna pay? The debtor again. So it looks awfully God-like, but it doesn't go at all to help some debtors, but it's gonna cost the claim. All for now. I'm sorry, I didn't know I was gonna bring up any debate with my speech at first, that wasn't the point, but I'm actually glad that it triggered some debate, because the worst thing is when you say something and nobody cares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u33	Mr Zahradník, factual point, then Mr Černoch, factual point, Mr Bendl, factual point. The minister wants to speak first? Then it's after Vice-President Filip. The lists are long up here with me. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would try to return to reality and to the present. One way to try to prevent these unfortunate phenomena and impacts on human destinies is to increase financial and economic literacy and, in my opinion, these topics should be part of the teaching plans of both primary and secondary schools and should be consistently taught and teachers who are able to teach economic literacy topics should, in turn, be targeted at teaching faculties. We in České Budějovice prepared a study programme Economic literacy for one time. I don't think we have it yet, it's not accredited, but we're going to try and stop, because we think that this is a very important thing, and our education should also deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u35	Mr. Blackman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u36	Thank you. Your way - all claims are not enforced rightly and I think everyone knows that it is not. They're not being enforced. There are a lot and a lot of claims that are enforced unlawfully. I think the camera that the executor will have, and he'll film and document it, is really the least we can do to make the documentation work. And then it's also protection for the fact that when the debtor comes in and says, "it was wrong, he did it to me, and that's what he did to me," that's just how the record goes, and it's gonna be on that record. So the camera is the smallest, and I think the most viable solution is to prevent the disputes afterwards. And again - I do not know whether alone or not, but, Mr President, you want the rule of law, the right to justice. And in executions, justice is very, very often trampled on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u37	Mr. Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only to the margo of my previous speaker: if something is enforced unlawfully, we have courts here to assess whether or not there is something illegal. But I was provoked by a comment from a colleague on the left-hand side of the spectrum who said that not everyone is mentally able to judge his situation so that he would not become a debtor capable of paying back. I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that if they rely on the mental capacity of the Chamber of Deputies to solve the problem of someone who is mentally unable to borrow, it is very illusory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u39	Mr Opálka with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not pursue the evaluation of the mental abilities of this honourable Chamber of Deputies. If they were individuals, I wouldn't even be able to do it. But if this situation has an impact on 20, some say even 30 percent of the population, then the problem sounds a little different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u41	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Now we have priority rights. Vice-President Filip, after him the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let me announce that, given Mr Blažek's speech, I will vote in favour of this law, although I considered it slightly inadequate. Let me make this simple. His speech, my colleague Blažek, was more ideological than I expected from him. He divided the House into those who represent debtors and who represent creditors. He was Minister of Justice when the KSČM in 2011 submitted a proposal on executions, which we processed in a wider collective for a longer time, although I had originally intended - myself personally - to make a rather narrow, fast-negotiable amendment that would eliminate the greatest excesses. Finally, the law is here for the second time, it has been here for a year, it has 56 substantive changes to the executor law - for one simple reason: because the amendment must be more complex. And I have to thank the Constitutional Law Committee for doing so much work on that little novel. Because it's not like that at all! The Chamber of Deputies will certainly not only stand up for debtors or creditors, but, in particular, must ensure that the executor is not the one who makes money from the relationship that has been violated in some way. The bailiff is here to straighten out the relationship between the creditor and the debtor, since we've already set up the private bailiffs. Against my will! I never voted for it, I thought it was a terrible mistake, because privatizing the exercise of state power is, in my opinion, a very, very dangerous step. Take a look at how the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, goes about how other states handle this, and they are not so benevolent about how part of the state power is passed on. And I'm not going to lecture my colleague Blažek about what he knows about law theory and state theory for a long time, these are the basic attributes of state power, including the police, the courts and the executions, including the prison. So, in this respect, I believe it is a matter for the Chamber of Deputies to make sure that the excess that occurs by the activities of the particular persons who have a special law for it, that is, executors, so that it is not their - forgive me - free source of income, and there is nothing left for the creditor, and the executioner is not humiliated, but forgive me - buried in the ground and trampled on. In this respect, therefore, the power of state must be exercised in some way in order to preserve human dignity. And let me - which is why I didn't want to make a factual point - explain to you why I insisted in such a way that our amendment had to be complex. Yes, I certainly don't have it with the economic balance sheet that the Justice Department does, because I can't use that many experts, and even the KSČM club doesn't have the power to do it. But in this respect, I will tell a story. If there is, and my colleague Blažek can certainly find it in the judicatures, the judgment of the Regional Court in the case, i.e. the appeal court, that it is not possible to execute the apartment as a whole - the debt there was CZK 200,000, the apartment in České Budějovice is worth about CZK million, three plus one - the decision, i.e. res iudicatata for colleagues of lawyers, was that it is not possible to subject the apartment to execution because it is owned by, among other things, by a divorced wife and after a long-decided decision on the division of the joint property of the spouses, and the executor filed for the execution of half of the apartment and the court will grant it, so don't be angry with me. I see, of course, and I am glad that, finally, the articles came out in Bullet's advocacy quite, I would say, sophisticated about the fact that even the bailiff and his property could be the subject of execution if he was carrying out his activities unlawfully. And in this respect, the actual states exist here. I don't want to fight the Executor Chamber. I think that a number of executors perform very honest activities, it is hard work, ungrateful etc., but it is simply not possible to suffer these excesses. That means the measure of the executed property against what the debt is. Or I can tell another story where the debtor, yes, her reasoning wasn't exactly great, she owed 50,000, the executor knew nothing but to sell it was 1.2 million, and instead of returning the overpayment to the debtor, when they deducted everything else, that means a million 56,000, it's in a specific file, I won't say names, so they kept it, the bailiffs and the auctioneer with the fact that it's the subject of his business, that he needs the money for business, so then you have to deal with such judgments through the Supreme Court by calling, which is very difficult for us, or constitutional complaints. Are you surprised at the Constitutional Court after it's abolished the judgments from the very beginning when we're in this state? And do you wonder that they call the state of justice unsustainable, or in other words, which are then subject to various civil and criminal proceedings? So in this respect, I point out - yes, I did not intend to support a minor amendment that does not address the dramatic situation. And I would remind you that the KSČM club presented the comprehensive proposal, the amendment of the executive order, in 2011, and you, my colleague Blažek, were the Minister of Justice through the President. Now, do not engage in discussions that, in my opinion, reduce your seriousness in the House!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u43	Again a few factual points - Mr Bendl, Mr Blažek, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u44	Thank you for the floor. I, through Mr President, must refer to the words of the President of the KSČM and stand up for my colleague Blažek, because he did not share debtors and creditors here on good and bad. He was just trying to explain that the moment we complicate the legal situation of creditors, it would turn against debtors. In the finals, it's gonna pay the people you're trying to defend here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u45	Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u46	Thank you. I actually want to thank Mr Filip by your means. If any of my seriousness can be reduced here, that means I have one. So, actually, thank you for commendation. As my colleague Filip said again, I had an ideological speech. Well, when I hear about trampled, trampled in debt, we, my colleague, through you, cut Friedrich Engels a little bit, the figures of a working class in England, but that's from the 19th century, and we don't live in that kind of company, that somebody's trampling, trampling, etc. And maybe one more sentence. It's always interesting that you say something here, and then you get a reaction to what you didn't say at all. I guess that's a common phenomenon. I like to listen to the debate, but I stand behind what I said, and I did not really divide society into worthy creditors and villainous debtors, etc. I'm just saying that the situation is supposed to be balanced, or everyone will just take it away, and even those who don't trust anyone in quotes legally or owe anyone, but just the legal state and the uncertainty of the chaos that we're starting to go to isn't gonna benefit anybody. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u47	Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u48	To respond to my colleague Blažek, it is a popular discipline of political opponents that they translate from Czech into Czech and protest against something the speaker did not say. This has happened to many of us. It's nothing new, it wasn't the first time or the last time. But I want to say another thing. We're talking about who the creditors are, who the debtors are, but then there's a group that's even bigger, and these are the citizens who pay their responsibilities properly. There are many people sitting in these benches who have been active or active in city halls. If we add up the debts on charges and fines on offenses, it won't be hundreds of millions if we add it up for all the cities, it'll be a much higher amount, and the vast majority of citizens pay everything. And these hundreds of millions or billions are missing in city budgets. And by making it harder for us to enforce, even cities don't do it because it's getting harder. And then it is worth it to many fellow citizens not to pay, not to do their duty, and to pay not the creditors, but the decent ones! And we shouldn't forget that. And who doesn't know it, let him ask in his hometown or in his village how much they have dues - municipal waste fees, dog fees, fines for misdemeanors, rents. Let's add that amount up. Now advise us on how these cities are supposed to enforce this, when the Chamber of Deputies is constantly making the conditions for enforcement difficult, because the enforcement must also be economic! Very often there is talk of negative amounts, but in urban and municipal budgets after sum it is no negative amount and it is a very significant amount! So please let us consider the decent ones in making this decision, which is the vast majority of people who pay all their fees in time and allow cities to have the tools to enforce those other charges. [[Time!]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u49	Thank you, too. So now the Minister has the opportunity to speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed something, or almost everything, that has already been said. It was also said that Mr Blažek is actually wrong if he believes that we will approve a change in the executor's regulation here every month. We approve her here every month, and we haven't approved her yet, because the debate will always turn into an ideological debate. Not that it may not be fun or interesting or even important, but it does not concern this law. This law has nothing ideological in it at all. Indeed, it only clears the rules at a certain part of the executions, and that part, I note, concerning the executions of non-proportionable debtors. And that is something that I think they need both creditors and debtors and executors, and what is needed all the more, that unfortunately, we still have poor debtors - although Mr Blažek does not see it, which at the end of the day shows that he is living a happy life. [[Fun.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u51	And now he gets to the proper applications. The first is Mr Chvojka, followed by Mr Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I want to throw a little party, because I volunteered an hour ago - of course I understand and recognize the Rules of Procedure, but it's so strange when you log in an hour before you get a word, and 20 people jump over it. But I repeat, I accept the Rules of Procedure. It needs to be changed. I agree with some of my colleagues. A lot has been said here, and I may agree with the Minister that, unfortunately, nothing has been said about the individual specificities of the law, what is proposed, more generally said that we have bad debtors and worthy debtors, bad creditors and worthy creditors, and who is better and who is worse. Of course, to owe them badly, we all know it's better not to owe them. Sometimes you have to owe, you just have to borrow somewhere. It just happens to most of us. And then, of course, it's important that if this person doesn't pay back to get what he should pay back, he's being enforced by some solid, reasonable way. I certainly am not, and no one can think of me as some kind of overpro-verbal or too pro-executor MP, after all, I was one of those who signed draft laws at the beginning of the parliamentary term that dealt with back-up disputes, virtually. the remuneration of lawyers or the SJM, which was then dealt with at the level of the Constitutional Legal Committee with the assistance of the Ministry of Justice. And I dare say that the fact that we are discussing these things here, such as this press, that we have discussed the rewards of lawyers in backlog disputes and other things, is not the merit of the Justice Department. This has helped in some way, but all these digs of topics that should be dealt with have emerged from Members, and even here it turns out that the Member is not only supposed to vote blindly for what the government or someone else puts forward, but that it is important that MEPs have a legislative initiative, because it has turned out here in execution that it is good for Members to deal with and propose changes. In order not to be, like some of my previous speakers, very general, a colleague of mine. Tejc criticized me a little bit, and my colleague Blažek complimented me, which is cute, of course. I would only like to address one provision. I proposed an amendment, which was mentioned by Mr Tejc, otherwise I did not want to speak, and I would like to appeal here, not if there is a better creditor, an evil creditor, a worthy debtor, an evil debtor, who is better. It just doesn't have anything to do with it. I would just like to point out that, in a comprehensive amendment, this is proposed - I quote: The Court will stop the enforcement of the decision by selling the immovable property in which it has a compulsory place of permanent residence, if the amount of the entitled claims, those who have agreed to the proceedings as further authorisation, and the creditors liable to apply at the time of the opening of the auction negotiations does not exceed CZK 30,000,- without accessories. This does not apply where the claim is a maintenance claim or a claim for compensation of injury caused by injury to the injured person or to a criminal offence or would be contrary to good manners. [[10.30 hours]] I understand that provision. After all, I voted for them and voted for them at the level of the Constitutional Legal Committee, and I remember a number of atrocities, either from my practice or from the beginning of the newspaper, when, due to the debt of several thousand, real estate was sold. It's not that simple at this time. However, after some deeper reflection, I have come to believe that this provision, which is proposed, might deserve a slight modification. I propose that one whose debt does not exceed CZK 30,000 without accessories so the court will adjourn the auction negotiations and impose an obligation on the debtor to pay the claim and the costs of the proceedings within one year of the date of the resolution. Why do I suggest this? Seems logical to me. Of course, we have examples and cases where the debtor gets rid of everything, theoretically gets rid of everything, has nothing. And in this case, if he got rid of everything and had a property worth several million crowns, a house worth 20 million crowns, but otherwise he had nothing, and in that house for 20 million crowns he would have a permanent residence, he simply wouldn't have gotten the 30,000 crowns out of him, ever, because he has a permanent residence in the real estate and he has nothing else, he got rid of everything else. That's the only reason I designed this. It's not a handshake to bailiffs or creditors. It's just logical. It's nonsense that someone who owns a multi-million-dollar property couldn't be executed on that property because the debt is less than 30,000. Just if someone has the property, I suggest they get a year's worth of trouble, solve their claim, and after that year, the court would just make an auction. If someone has a property worth several million, and it doesn't matter if they have an apartment or a house, then they should just have to pay a debt of CZK 30,000. He's the best personal example. Take it on yourself, if you had someone who owes you CZK 30,000 or CZK 29,900, you'd see that he has a house, with forgiveness, like a cow, got rid of everything else, movable things, cars, he just has this house, and you just can't go to that house because he just owes under CZK 30,000 and he's a permanent resident in that house. I think it's nonsense. Anyone who uses common sense has to agree with me that if someone has a house, and I won't repeat it, a big house or a large apartment, they should probably have CZK 30,000 to pay their debt. So that is why I tabled this amendment, and I think it has great logic, and I am asking for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u53	Thank you. We will continue with factual remarks, first Mr Tejc, then Mr Černoch and Mr Blažek. [[Member of the Tejc: Proper.]] Proper - so is Mr Černoch, then Mr Blažek. Colleague Tejc will be with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u54	Thank you. Only for a very short time. I would very much like to ask you to support this bill, this amendment. I would like to thank my colleagues on the Constitutional Legal Committee, because I think that there has really been a lot of work done on this, and very good work. Just as we've actually been told here, let's do these things, specify these things. On the contrary, this amendment is about not creating chaos. I mean, he straightens things out in both directions, whether he's a debtor or whether it's legitimate. I think that this House press and the amendments that have been tabled are a small step forward for this House and a big step forward for all those whom the execution has somehow touched.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u55	Thank you. Now Mr Blažek also with a factual remark, then a colleague Tejc with a proper one. Please, colleague, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u56	Thank you for the floor. I am here to thank Mr Chvojka for your help. He said a lot of things well, but that one sentence shouldn't fit in, and that's important. He described certain excesses and then said the sentence that nowadays it is no longer possible. And I'm just saying, let's not come out of what happened when the executions started because they weren't - now I mean bailiffs, because there was no experience or case law. There's a lot of things we've heard about today that just don't happen. And if they do, they're not gonna end up treating the debtor like I did in the 19th century, listening here. And maybe one more comment. I really didn't know what kind of discussion I was gonna bring up here, but the problem I'm saying the problem is, if there were more debtors than creditors, that means more potential voters on the creditors' side, this debate is going very differently here. And that's what I'm criticizing. Because I insist that the debates about when we invent ever more and more protection for debtors are simply because, not that things work in a systemic way, but that these people see that they have their supporters here who promote their interests. I think it's damaging the legal system. And as I'm listening to this debate that's still coming up, it's gonna get worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Grospič has the first. Isn't that right? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, colleagues. I would have responded very briefly by means of you, Mr President, to the words that were said here earlier by my predecessor. Of course, it may not have the law - and rather well its creators, or those who participated in it, are aware - of the ambition to eliminate all excesses or potential excesses that practice will find and which will simply come. But in itself, it is a reaction to the very excesses that have appeared in the past. Unfortunately, these include, for example, the proposal that concerns the seizure and execution of real estate for claims significantly unacceptablely small. So there's a logic to it. I think that the things that are going on here, of course, have their weight and their worth. Let them be taken in the light of the Ministry of Justice, which has promised that a further proposal of a comprehensive amendment will be processed in some foreseeable time. koneckonců all, there are a number of other proposals in the House, including our proposal from the KSČM. And we will certainly not oppose the debate on this issue and the inclusion of these issues, but in the present situation we can see as a good starting point that we should simply vote on this parliamentary proposal, as it has been drawn up, and therefore either put it through a vote or, if necessary, reject it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u59	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u60	By your means - Pavel, colleague Blažek, I think what you said was completely unfair and wrong. I really don't care if there are so many or so many voters on either side or on the other side. This is really about making order in a law that hasn't been dealt with here in years. And if there are so many voters on one side or on the other side, I really don't care. I'm not doing this for political points. And you can trust me, I really care about these people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u61	Thank you. Before I give the floor with Mr Blažek's factual remark - I will ask you - I would like to read the note. [[Messenger. Blažek off the microphone: Sure.]] Let me read the note cards that arrived. Today from 12 a.m. and tomorrow for the whole day for health reasons, Mr Novotný apologizes. [[Which Novotny?]] Which Novotný - so I will specify, yes, Dr. Josef Novotný. He also apologizes today from 10 to 10.30 Mr. Jaroslav Klaška. He also apologizes from 10 to 10.50 because of the acceptance of the Croatian delegation Ondřej Benešík. Furthermore, on 29 from 18 o'clock, Mrs Balaštíková apologises for personal reasons. Now, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u62	Thank you for the floor. Your help to a colleague of mine, Černoch. I didn't name anybody, and the shot goose showed up. I just can't say it any other way. And maybe one more thing. I merely stated that debtors are simply more than creditors. If that statement is unfair, then the truth is unfair, but there's nothing I can do about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u63	Thank you. I am now not seeing any factual comment. I have here duly signed up for the debate of Mr Tejc, the appellant, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u64	Thank you for the floor. I volunteered a minute later than my colleague Chvojka, and I'm also glad I'm next. I think it is necessary to say, first of all, that I am not in conflict of interest, I have no debt, so I am not doing this for myself, but I am doing this to change the law, among other things, to respond to comments and proposals that come from people who visit our parliamentary offices, they write us e-mails. I don't think the situation is really black and white. I don't want and I won't divide the debtors into good and bad, nor will I divide the creditors, but I will divide the executions into reasonable and inappropriate. [[10.40 hours]] I didn't want to mention the text of the law here, but based on the debate that took place here, it would be good to say what we're going to vote on. The law says that the execution of the decision will exclude, in particular, those things owned by the debtor or in the joint property of his and his husband - I will appoint them. It's the things that won't be able to be confiscated after the law's changed. Common clothing components including linen and footwear, household furnishings, in particular bed, table, chairs, kitchenette, tools and kitchenware, refrigerator, stove, cooker, washing machine, heating body, fuel, blanket and bed linen, provided that the value of such goods clearly does not exceed the price of the usual household furnishings. Study and religious literature, school needs and children's toys. A wedding ring, documents of a personal nature, images and pictures and sound records relating to the debtor or members of his family and to the data carriers of such records, unless such records can be transmitted to another medium, and other objects of a similar nature. Medical needs and other things that a compulsory or member of his household needs due to his illness or physical defect, cash in the amount corresponding to twice the minimum of life of an individual under special legislation and animals for which the economic effect is not the main purpose of breeding and which serves a person as his companion. So that's a circle of things that couldn't be confiscated. And I'm convinced that if you look at them, none of you will find that list disproportionately wide. I believe that today it is not right for a family with children to lose a washing machine, for example, because they owe it, and children find themselves without basic hygiene. I don't think there's any real reason for that. The second thing is that there is an obligation to carry out audio and image recordings from the so-called mobiliar execution, i.e. confiscating things in the apartment in the debtor's house. Unfortunately, today it is so that there are often complaints about individual obligations, that the bailiff did not proceed adequately, that he threatened, for example, to confiscate things that were not his own, but perhaps his parents. I even know about the case where the property was seized by the owner of the house, who had furniture, which, of course, rented at the same time as the apartment, and the executor didn't respond to any objections. That is why we are saying that it is possible to determine the real situation as the execution took place, that a record will be made, which can subsequently be used by the Ministry in any proposal to initiate a disciplinary procedure. Then there is the question of the claims we talked about, which means whether or not the property is to be confiscated and subsequently sold for small debts. The control of executor's employees, candidates and associates, is being increased in a certain way and new complaints can be given. What has been discussed here is also a matter of procedure. I will now read the procedure for the executioner, and please consider for yourself whether it is logical and in accordance with common sense. We say that it should proceed so that first they will be affected by the commandment of the claim from the account at the money institution, simply money in the account if it has it. If not, other cash claims may be charged, except for pension claims or supplementary pension savings, disability of other property rights, wage deductions and other income, management of immovable property, suspension of driving licence or establishment of a enforceable lien. Only if these funds are not effective can they be admitted to selling movable property and selling immovable property which is compulsory for the housing of themselves and their families. Only then can they be elected until the more dramatic means of execution. Appropriateness was laid down in the law, unfortunately not all bailiffs - although I recognise that a large part of it - respected the general provisions. That is why we have reached out to the fact that we are writing the procedure precisely into the law, which is really pucuistic, but on the other hand, it is a reaction that some bailiffs are unfortunately unable to respect the general provisions of the law. The last thing that Mr Schwarz spoke of is a matter which, in my view, also has its logic and is needed. In the meantime, when someone has money in an account that they provide for execution, there is no reason for the execution to last a few months, for example, the debtor's assets were seized, but it is sufficient for the debtor to pay this amount to the executioner from his account, and, of course, at that point, the execution ends, of course, will be deprived of the costs of execution. It's certainly not that the debts have stopped paying. We're not saying that someone shouldn't pay their debt. We are simply saying that the procedure chosen by the bailiff has often not been appropriate today and that the aim of execution is to satisfy the creditor, not to liquidate or bullying the debtor. That is what we want to change by law, and I am convinced that the enforcement of the law will not be reduced. It may be bad news for those who have been counting on us to cancel the bailiffs and the creditors will have to handle themselves. There's no such thing. The law is criticized on the one hand for its radicality, on the other for its mildness. I think we've made a relatively good law, so in that sense, it's an effort to make an adjustment that is consistent with common sense. I agree with what was said here. The problem is not primarily in executions, it is the last thing to come, but the problem is, of course, in financial literacy, in that there are often no loan providers licensed, in that consumer loans are from CZK 5 000 and a number of companies offer loans at CZK 4 999 with an annual percentage rate of costs, i.e. interest and fees, of 6 500 points. That's an incredible amount. I think we need to change this, but we can't deal with this proposal. It deals with a proposal made by the Treasury. We will certainly have a debate on it, especially in the Committee on Budgets. I'm interrogating myself to solve the one part now, and maybe the more important ones will be solved as soon as possible. I'm glad the proposal is already in the paragrafo version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u65	Thank you. I note one factual remark made by President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u66	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I was prepared to support the proposal, but now I was disturbed by Mr Tejc's speech, where he warned me that, for example, a non-executed item could also be a washing machine in a family with children. I would understand if they weren't allowed to execute the valet and the necks, but not to execute the washing machine that was taken for unpaid credit, I still find it quite hypersensitivity. All I'm saying is that as a child at school, I helped my mom fight on the balcony, and we didn't feel like a social case, we weren't socially frustrated. On the contrary, we always sang nicely. The family's great linens were cemented. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I really don't know how to vote right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u67	Thank you. Now with proper application by Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u68	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was not going to perform until my colleague Tejc started reading here, because I felt that we had said everything to each other on the Constitutional Legal Committee. But since we've arrived at the House and started the debate here, I'm sorry, but I still want to say something about her. Everything that colleagues write is already in the law. The problem is that now and then some executor or executor goes off and does something that's behind the edge. What Vice-President Filip quoted here was part of the crime, at least part of the violation of the law on judicial executions. So all things that should be prosecutable and punishable. [[10.50 hours]] Today, we are in a situation where they are making excuses for each other - the executor's chamber was responsible for this earlier - which is no longer responsible for this - the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Administrative Court, where the Ministry of Justice is a disciplinary prosecutor, the Supreme Administrative Court is the court in which it is decided, and they blame one on the other, why the bailiffs are never punished. I don't want to decide, I believe the Ministry will come up with some other solution. But it's the state's fault, let's face it, he's not capable of punishing these excesses. I think it's wrong, because we need to punish those crossings, and not deal with it by walking by individual Members and instead of having the usual household equipment that has been there today, we're going to start writing the usual household equipment that they think of in particular: table, chairs, kitchen, washing machine, refrigerator, and then we're going to realize that it's not quite possible, so it's going to start to say - well, if they're worth what's normal in that household. I'm really curious about the person who's coming, and now he's going to judge with knowledge whether this fridge already is part of the usual household equipment, or doesn't belong in the usual household equipment. The same thing, and I said it again on the committee's floor, study and religious literature sounds immensely noble, it's such a nice protection for those who still want to learn. On the other hand, in study and religious literature, educated people have hundreds of thousands saved. Often more than that. And that doesn't have to be special collectors. Those are things that are of high value. And why do you want to cut them off? That is why we have been saying from the beginning, and that is why my colleague Blažek and I say: we are dealing with a problem which, instead of addressing the state's ability to punish someone who goes beyond bounds, is written by more complex and more complex cookbooks into the law, and we will end by wondering that there will be 150 holes in the law again, because the more complex the cook, the worse it works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u69	Thank you. And now, with proper application, Mr Vondráček. With a point of fact? So, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u70	I'll take the deed. I also thought that we had already said all this to each other on the Constitutional Legal Committee and that we would no longer be performing. But the first three sentences of my colleague Benda were quite correct. I was rocking my head. The existing legislation is at a decent level, in conjunction with the caselaw it is fully satisfactory. We're really dealing with excesses that sometimes happen on the spot. And now I'm going to ask, "The person who gets a Mobiliar execution at home isn't gonna be helped by being punished." At that point, a man is powerless against the executor, that he's going over the edge and that he wants to confiscate this thing. It's a personal matter. I've been there, so I know what I'm talking about. Not on me, but I was there as an attorney. If we're able to fix it, if we're able to put it into the law, and I hope that even then, if it's right in the law, the bailiffs won't break it if it's written exactly, so we're able to fix it. And if the effort is here, why not support it? On the contrary, in the case of executions, the executor, the executor, knows he's taking the thing he shouldn't take, but it's on the edge, he's gonna try, and those people are really looking for cash at the last minute to pay off, so you can drive away with your car and not load things. It's usually done, it's a common tactic, it's a kind of psychological pressure. We're able to fix this place a little bit, we're a little bit of a law enforcement, we're not gonna hurt anybody, we're not against anything. The way I see it, yes, we're fighting against excesses by law, because that's the way it is in our country, and it's probably the only thing that's gonna help. If it were enough to punish the bailiffs in six months, I might agree with my colleague Benda. But I don't know, it just doesn't work that way with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u71	Thank you. I'm registering two more factual points. Mr Kováčik and Mr Benda have the first. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam and gentlemen, at this point, I would just like to remind myself that if memory does not deceive me, neither at first reading nor at second reading was such a deep and detailed discussion on the subject. It has even mentioned more than once here that a detailed and deep debate took place on the Constitutional Legal Committee. So maybe I will make a fuss or maybe in vain, but I will appeal to our discipline regarding access to the Rules of Procedure. Let's see what can be done here in the Chamber of Deputies at third reading. In order to understand this, the subject needs to be defined, it is necessary to bring forward opinions once more, so that the elector can see who is behind it, but in my opinion, we may or may not have been able to justify here, but that is the second reading, the submission of amendments, but we should have corrected, where appropriate, legislative technical or linguistic or similar matters, which might still be a problem. I could perhaps still admit that we would appear here as club representatives with our opinion on how we will deal with the amendment or the law or the proposal. It seems to me a waste of time to repeat here again and again what was to be said here at first, second reading, what was to rot on the committees, and therefore, at this point, I would like to ask, let us take a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u73	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u74	To both my previous speakers, I will begin with President Kováčik. In my opinion, we have quite simply explained why we will not support the proposal and abstain from voting all the time because we consider it completely unnecessary. That was all we were trying to say in this House. Everything in that law is already there. It's pointless. Second comment on Radek Vondráček through Mr President. Do we really think that if someone does, how did you say it here, if someone does excess, what would help me to get punished for it? If excess is just a little law-abiding, it's not gonna help me get punished. But if it's clear by breaking the law, do you think it'll help me in a situation where excesses are caused against me? It won't. No way. So let's not pretend that if we write a better cookbook, it'll help somebody in particular. Only the punishment will help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u75	Thank you. At this point, I have no one enrolled in the debate. I wonder if that's the case. If no one else is reporting, I will conclude the debate and ask whether the rapporteur or the proposer wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. Thank you. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure and then to transmit the amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to draw attention to the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee of 22 April 2015, which can be found under number 181/5, where the Constitutional Legal Committee, as a guarantee committee, recommends after second reading: The Chamber of Deputies shall vote in the third reading on the printing proposal in question 181 in the following order. First of all, they would be proposals for technical adjustments under § 85 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading, if they are presented legislatively in the third debate - and they have not been presented, as far as I know. So we would start by proposing a vote on amendments under letter C together with one vote, including legislative technical regulation in Part Two of the article. IV, point 5 shall be deleted. [[C1 to C3]] In the event that this proposal failed, or respectively. it would have been accepted, then the proposals under points B1, B6 and B7 would have become unvoted. Otherwise, we would have voted on them. [[11.00 hours]] Secondly, we would then vote on the proposal under letter D, and once again it would be true that if the proposal had been adopted, the points under points B8 and B10 would have been unvoted and, if it had not been accepted, we would have voted on points B8 and B10. Thirdly, it would then be the proposals for points B2 and B4 together by one vote. Then the proposals for points B3 and B9 together with one vote. Proposal for paragraph B5. Proposal for a point E1 and E2 by common vote. A comprehensive amendment under point A, and then we could vote on the bill as a whole. So much procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u77	I thank you for this proposal and ask if anyone has a proposal for a different procedure. It's not like that. In that case, I will put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposed voting procedure at third reading. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 24, the Members present are 186, for proposal 173, against no one. The vote has been agreed with this procedure. So I'm going to ask you to lecture on individual proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u78	Thank you. The first vote would be to vote on the amendment under point C, i.e. points C1 to C3 together with one vote, including the legislative technical regulation in Part Two of the resolution. IV point 5 which is repealed and the Constitutional Committee recommends this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u79	I thank you and ask the plaintiff for an opinion. [[The designer recommends.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 25, the Members present are 186, in favour of proposal 128, against 5. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u80	We would now vote on the proposal under point D. The Constitutional Committee recommends it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u81	Thank you. I'm starting... Excuse me, I'm sorry, I haven't asked the petitioner yet, so I declare this vote confusing, and I ask the petitioner about his position. [[The petitioner recommends.]] Thank you. I have let the vote take place and I will repeat it now, because I have not asked the petitioner for an opinion before. I am now opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 27, the Members present are 186, for proposal 136, against 4. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u82	We would now vote together with one vote on the proposals under points B2 and B4. It's about-- for the orientation of the real estate, okay. The Constitutional Committee has not adopted an opinion on this. Thus, a neutral position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u83	Thank you. The plaintiff? [[Opinion fundamentally negative.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 28, the Members present are 186, for proposal 61, against 96. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u84	Now we would vote together with one vote on proposals under B3 and B9. The opinion on this has not been adopted by the Constitutional Committee, i.e. it is neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u85	The plaintiff? [[Opinion slightly positive.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 29 of Members present 186, in favour of proposal 123, against 40. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u86	We would now vote with one vote on the proposal under B5. The Constitutional Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u87	The plaintiff? [[Negative.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 30, Members of Parliament and Members 186, in favour of proposal 41, against 106. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u88	We would now vote together under the letters E1 and E2. The Constitutional Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u89	Thank you. The plaintiff? [[Recommends.]] Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 31 of Members present 186, in favour of proposal 144, against 1. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u90	Now, Mr. Speaker and I have been discussing the question of whether we voted on the proposal under letter D. I think so. They voted. Absolutely. [[Exhibits of consent.]] We would now vote on the proposal under letter A, which means a comprehensive original amendment, as amended by those amendments, as we have now adopted them. The Constitutional Legal Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u91	And the plaintiff? [[Recommends.]] Thank you. I am here to note the factual point - no, I will delete the factual points here, because there is still no debate, there is a vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 32, Members of Parliament and Members 187, in favour of proposal 156, against 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u92	We have been through all these amendments, and we can now proceed to the vote on the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-003-089.u93	Thank you. I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members jeroný Tejc, Jaroslav Foldyna, Michal Hašek and others to issue a law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, pursuant to House press 181, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the bill, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 33, the Members present are 185, for proposal 161, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you both to the rapporteur and to the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point. [[11.10 hours]] I'm opening another point, and that's it.
