ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 72/2000 Coll., on investment incentives and on the amendment of certain laws (the Act on Investment Incentives), as amended, and other related laws /German press 302/ - second reading Mr Martin Novotný will take the position at the rapporteur's table, and Minister Jan Mládek, who remained at the rapporteur's table, will state the proposal submitted under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister of Industry and Trade. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to introduce the Ministry of Industry and Trade material, the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Investment Incentives, which includes the related amendment to the Income Tax Act, the Employment Act and the Real Estate Tax Act. I would merely like to recapitulate that the draft amendment to the law is based on the new European rules on public support, which bring fundamental changes to the system of investment incentives. The proposed bill adapts investment incentives to these new European rules while increasing their attractiveness for foreign investors, which will ensure the competitiveness of the Czech Republic in international competition. Everything has already been described in detail in the first reading. The Economic Committee approved the amendment to the Act, as amended by several amendments. Two of them address the shift in the effectiveness of the amendment of the Act to 1 May this year and the related amendment of the transitional provision to the amendment of the Income Tax Act. The remaining amendments concern the adjustment of the calculation of the tax deduction as a form of investment incentive. The resulting amount is newly based on average values up to three tax periods and thus reflects the actual amount of the taxpayer's income. The change will eliminate the impact of one-off fluctuations in the taxpayer's income, prevent speculative negotiations and contribute to greater motivation for expanding companies to expand production in the Czech Republic. I agree with these amendments and recommend that the draft amendment be approved within the meaning of these amendments adopted by the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u3	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek for his opening words. We ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Economic Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 302/1. I therefore ask the Committee rapporteur Martin Novotný to present a news report. The rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, one more good afternoon from my side. In my intelligence report, I will not extend the scope of the debate that was held on the Act on Investment Incentives in previous readings at the Chamber of Deputies, which then continued fluently at two negotiations of the Economic Committee which dealt with this law in November and a few days ago. In the first phase of the discussion on the Economic Committee, they were re-spoken, and this would probably affect the vote of the various factions on the bill as a whole, questions on the institute or instrument of special economic zones, on the fairness of a specific form, as applied to a specific selection of such sites and why these and not others were chosen. The question of property tax, its use in the system of investment incentives, the opinion of municipalities, the role of municipalities in this matter, etc. was discussed again. The most important thing is that specific comments were made in the debate on one of the instruments, one of the types of incentives, namely the tax discount in terms of the functionality of this instrument. We were based on statistical materials that showed in previous time series that this tax discount was used only in 13.9 percent of the cases where it was first granted to investors, and then, when they made the balance of their economic results according to the design of the previous law, they effectively reached only 13.9 percent of those entities for this discount. That is why there have been amendments to the Economic Committee that have tried to address this situation, first mine and then more comprehensive, and I think that there is no point in playing any political game in this sense, a proposal by Mr Velebný, which represents another construction of the taxation periods. There's a longer period and a different mathematical formula. In terms of communication with some experts from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, this new design could potentially lead to an increase in the use of this investment incentive from some less than 14 percent to somewhere up to 50 percent. Let's see if we can prove it. In any case, whether we have one or the other political view of investment incentives, at a time when they already exist, so that they exist in a form where, in fact, those who are first offered and granted do not reach them would not make sense. The Economic Committee, therefore, together with one more proposal from Mr Birke, supported these two fundamental amendments to the wording of the present law. [[18.10 hours]] I would, therefore, like to get to know at this point the resolution adopted by the Economic Committee on this matter. It is a resolution from the 15th meeting of 14 January. The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, after hearing the opening words of the Minister of Industry and Trade, Jan Mládek, Mr Martin Novotný's report, and after a general and detailed debate, first recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House press 302 as amended by the approved amendments - and now follows the specific text of the proposals that I have interpreted. Now my papers are out of order, so give me a few seconds of time. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. - That's what happened. Thirdly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present a report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this draft law in the Economic Committee. - That's what I'm doing. Fourthly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. So much for the resolution of the Economic Committee. I would just point out that, in the context of the analysis of the legislative department in a detailed debate, even beyond the legislative technical adaptations to the Economic Committee, I will speak with one that has appeared in connection with the assessment of the discussion of other prints in the Chamber of Deputies, where it seems to have broken down some kind of reference apparatus. It really is a technical change, and I have no choice but to fulfill the wishes of the House's or ministry's legislation, I suppose, too, and I will make this proposal here in a moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u5	I thank the rapporteur for presenting his report. I am opening a general debate. I'm registering Mr. Michal Kučera's application for it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. I think I agree with Mr Novotný here that investment incentives are wrong and that they distort the market, but they are already here and we have to count on them in some way. However, I would like to say why this law will not have the support of the TOP 09 parliamentary club. It is not just a Commission regulation. If that were the case, of course there would be no need and the amendment would need to be supported. However, what is really problematic, and I have talked about it both on the Economic Committee and, I suspect, at first reading, and I will probably be in the third, that is the proposal to set up special economic zones. The problem is that they are not explicitly included in the amendment to the law, the proposal is contained in the explanatory memorandum. Special economic zones will have a higher level of support than other industrial zones. These are three industrial zones in the Moravian-Silesian Region, one zone in the Zlín Region and one in the Ústí Region. When I asked about the reason for the Economic Committee, why these zones should have support and why they should not have support for the zone in the South Bohemia Region, why only one in the Zlín Region, why there are no two, why there is one in the Ústí Region, why there are no three in the Moravian-Silesian Region, why there are no other, the answer was: because the zones already exist, they are not filled and we need to support them. This means that these zones will receive more money from the state than other industrial zones. I think it is indeed a violation of the principle of equal opportunities. The TOP 09 will strongly oppose this and will vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u7	I thank Mr Kučer. Who's next for the debate? I have no one in the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. And since there is nothing to vote on, I am opening up a debate in detail for which I have the rapporteur's application. Mr Martin Novotný in a detailed debate with the amendment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u8	Colleagues and colleagues, I will first read the justification for the legislative technical amendment. Its reason is the prior approval of the printing 292, in which it is replaced by § 16a para. It is therefore necessary to specify in the text of the amendment point that the amendment concerns only paragraph 2. 1, which is, moreover, the content of the amendment. You may also hear from my diction that this is indeed a legislative technical proposal, which is very difficult to defend in terms of content, but it is about the reference apparatus in connection with the approval of printing 292. In particular, I would like to read the proposal. The fourth amendment point 7 reads: in § 16a para. 1 "Section 6" is replaced by "a x," Section 6, Section 9 para. 1 letter w), §" - and this is the end of the text in quotation marks, the end of the change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u9	I thank Mr Novotný for his proposal. Who else in the detailed debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Yes, Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek with final press release 302. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u10	I would like to thank you for the constructive discussion. At the criticism of the TOP 09 club representatives that there are some zones in structurally affected areas of the Czech Republic, I would like to say: Is it so right that they are defending the Chimera of some completely free market that does not exist anywhere? The government's responsibility is to provide employment for people in structurally affected areas, which is what they are trying to do. These zones and, in general, support for investment in these areas. Because it's really not primarily generated here that we're being pushed into it by Brusel, virtually. The only thing we felt from Brussels was that we could give a smaller amount of public aid incentives because it was converted into GDP of the Czech Republic, so assistance must be more structured, but theoretically we could also do nothing, no infringement would threaten us, but we do not want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u11	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. I'm asking if the rapporteur is interested in the final word. Yes, the rapporteur with the final word. Gentlemen, I cannot give my word because the debate is over. With priority rights, of course, after exhausted the final word of the Minister and the rapporteur. It is not possible before, nor can the acting chairman of the club interrupt this. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u12	Colleagues and colleagues, in my final words, I do not want to make a comprehensive recount of all aspects. We will express our opinion on those forms of investment incentives in the vote. I just want to recall, perhaps for a moment, a glimpse or perspective of a part of local politicians for whom they have experienced a situation in recent years, where new and new competences have been passed on to them, which have been transferred from the centre to the municipalities. This created new and new mandatorial expenditures in the budgets of our municipalities through the laws, and the real estate tax instrument in particular became unwanted, because politically unpopular, but one of the few ways in which city councils and municipalities can decide to increase their budget revenues. I stress, nobody likes it, very often it causes unpopular situations in these locations. I think that involving this one of the few degrees of freedom in the budgetary management of cities and municipalities in the central state system of promoting economic development may cause problems in some situations and may not be popular for all mayors. I merely wanted to draw attention to this subject once again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since there has been no proposal that can be voted at second reading, I am ending second reading of this bill. The President of the TOP 09 Club František Laudát - among the points - came forward with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u14	Thank you. Vice-President, I didn't impose, I just applied. I would ask the Ministers of the Government and all those who submit a point and then have the right from the Rules of Procedure to refrain from attacking, which the Minister did this time, in the final word and did not give the victims or those addressed a chance to defend themselves. I really don't know about this law, but here you continue to distort the market, on uneven occasions. I would ask why the Ústí Region, which has Mostecko, has one, Zlinský has another number, Moravian-Silesian three. Don't be mad at me, your economic policy - I know I'm about to get dirty texts and stuff - it's survival and you're thinking of economic growth. But what you do, and you bend the rules gradually, you select who you do to, and who you don't, it doesn't have a future. Unfortunately, voters won't know until late. I would really ask the ministers when they say something, whether they respond immediately and give a chance to argue with the opposition or at all to the Members and Members with a different opinion. I would ask that this principle be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-20-ps2013-025-01-007-007.u15	Good evening. I thank Mr Laudát. The next item is:
