ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-003-029.u1	29. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with proof of the origin of property /house print 504/ - first reading I would like to inform you that in a few moments Mr. Miloš Zeman will be visiting our meeting hall of the President of the Republic. [[The present ones have risen in the hall. At the sound of the fanfare, Miloš Zeman enters the meeting hall of the President of the Republic. Then everyone sits down again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, allow me to welcome the President in the Chamber of Deputies. It is his third visit, and the President expressed his wish to speak before the Chamber of Deputies on the point at hand, that is to say, a change in the law relating to the proof of the origin of the property, and that is why before the petitioner comes out, I will give the floor to the President of the Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-003-029.u2	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, the President of the Republic has the right to speak at any time about anything, and so allow me, before I move on to the main subject of my speech, to comment only in three sentences on the subject that you discussed last night. Theorem one. I am fundamentally against the upcoming EU immigration quotas. The second sentence. I am in favour of the Czech Republic, as far as possible, helping refugees either in their territory or in neighbouring territories. And the third sentence. I believe that the specific form of this assistance can be the sending of a rather unused 6th-field hospital to Jordan, where there are 600,000 refugees from Syria, and this is the proposal that I, together with my colleague Hamáček, tabled a few months ago at the top constitutional officials' meeting. I would just like to add that I am certainly not afraid, and if I am afraid, it is of long and meaningless speeches that do not propose any solution. And now let me move on to the main topic of my performance. Let me begin with a rather nostalgic memory. When I was Prime Minister, I twice submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a bill of proof of the origin of income and property. This proposal was rejected twice because in the House there were 102 members of the group of right-wing Members. I feel it as my personal debt, and therefore I am very pleased that I can support this law in my speech today and ask you to accept it. A lot has happened since then. Those who argued that this law was harassing honest citizens seem to include both honest citizens and those who obtained a box of wine where there was no wine, those to whom carp were not carp, those who committed horribly high tax fraud, and you know that in the United States tax fraud is the second most serious crime right after the murder, while in our country it is a cavalier's delicacy. I would like to appreciate two things about this law and, on the contrary, to criticise two things as a possible incentive for your amendments. The first thing is to move the burden of proof to, as Jara da Cimrman, a vulgar suspect, expressed by legal terminology on a reasonable suspect. I remember an episode that the rector of a Brno college once told me. He was invited to his colleague at the German University and the German Rector just bought a villa. He came for a work breakfast, and there, unannounced, an employee of the German Financial Authority showed up and said, Mr. Rector, I have your tax returns back in ten years, I know the price of the villa you bought. Where'd you get that? According to your tax returns, you couldn't afford it. The German rector went to the secretary, opened it, pulled out a notarized will and said that he inherited so much and so much money and bought a villa out of the money. The clerk bowed and left, and that was it. In other words, the person who has obtained his funds in a legal way has nothing to worry about under this law. They are to fear those who have become rich by stealing from the state who have become rich by corruption, and you know that every bribe is in its own way illegal income, and hence tax fraud. [[10.40 hours]] The second thing I would like to appreciate is that, instead of a court, the amount of fines granted will be decided by the tax office. I have a very simple reason for that. In particular, in matters of economic crime, the courts decide extremely slowly and with suspicion of the corruption of certain judges. Of course, I don't want to flat-rate and accuse all the judges, cops or prosecutors of being corrupted. But we have here the example of bankruptcy judge Berka, we have here the example of Berdychův's gang, we have here the example of insolvency mafia, so I could go on and on. Let me give you one brief illustration again. My government has filed a criminal complaint against a man who has borrowed one billion crowns in Pilsen Credit and Industrial Bank. Well, that's natural, every businessman knows that you just have to go to the bank, ask for a billion, a banker salutes and you have a billion in your account. However, this man received the loan, a billion-dollar loan. He didn't pay it off. The bank, which had 13,000 small and medium-sized savers, went bankrupt, and when it finally went to trial after more than ten years, guess what the verdict was. The verdict was "Freed." Reason: It was not a credit fraud, but - I quote literally - "a faulty business plan." Of course, this case-law opens the door to all credit fraudsters to say that they really, really wanted to repay the loan, but that they had a bad business plan. So they can only be punished for their incompetence, and unfortunately, incompetence is not yet a criminal offence. Now I would come to two points where I have some doubts. The first is the principle of so-called false retroactivity. The law is somewhat unclear in this case. They're talking about pre-slip deadlines, at a base rate of three and a maximum rate of ten years. What a lawyer, that's a different opinion of what's called false retroactivity. However, in any case, I think that property is a cumulative quantity, while income is a flow variable, and that we should therefore examine the assets at time t, taking into account the longest period that this property has accumulated. I do not know if Mrs Jana Lorencová of the ANO movement is present here, but she wrote a beautiful book called Blood Oil, describing how high-ranking politicians' wives lost commissions in plastic bags resulting from the difference in tax rates between fuel oil and diesel. So I waited to see which of these politicians appointed there in this book would sue her. And no one sued her. That is the first question, because, of course, I would like this law to go back to the past and not to be reduced to a "what you stole, it's yours, but don't steal anymore" declaration. Second, the penultimate point concerns the penalisation rates that are mentioned in several variants, and I would very much like some of your amendments to be tightened up because I consider them too mild. Note one last. As regards submission in the event of a reasonable suspicion of a statement of property, this is nothing new. When you read the criminal code and you find § 227 there, you will find that proof of the origin of the property is already contained in this paragraph, and is often used for such purposes as the application for social benefits, I suspect also execution. So why, for God's sake, should it not be used in the event of suspicion of tax fraud, i.e. robberies, not their own family, but robberies of the state? I would like to end by remembering the discussion with the former President of the Italian Senate, named Violante. He was also famous for writing a beautiful poem in honor of a little girl murdered by the Italian mob, but he was also famous for his anti-corruption laws. And he said to me, the biggest punishment you can give a mobster isn't sending him to jail. The greatest punishment for a mobster is to seize his property. And he was also an example of a mobster named Riina who had a huge palace downtown Rome. Well, he's been impounded. Then it was discussed for what purpose this palace was to be used. And since it couldn't have been a nightclub or other community service facilities like a casino, they turned it into a school. I know several palaces in the Czech Republic that would also benefit the development of our education. [[Let's hear it.]] In conclusion, allow me one provocation, because I couldn't even leave without it. In recognition of the potential innocence of prosecutors, policemen and judges, I wonder why that billionaire fraud was liberated. And I'm thinking, what if he freed 50 million out of that billion to bribe a cop and postpone his case? If it didn't work out, he freed up $100 million to bribe the state's attorney not to start a prosecution. And when it didn't work out, he freed up $200 million to bribe the judge, and he handed out a liberating sentence. I would merely recommend that this model not be applied to a man who steals ten thousand crowns. Because the idea of giving two hundred crowns to a police officer, five hundred crowns to a prosecutor or a thousand crowns to a judge would only lead to an increased penalty rate, including an attempt at insufficient corruption. [[Fun in the hall.]] [[10.50 hours]] So let me conclude, though I wish this law to be even more stringent, that I have spoken for its adoption. I do not share the opinion of the Minister of Finance that he may not bring substantial revenue into the state budget, but that, of course, will depend on the activities of the financial authorities. If, at the beginning of the transformation period, dishonest entrepreneurs were mainly characterized by purple jackets and white socks, they were marked in the middle of that period by huge tax companies, frauds, and separated themselves from a group of backpack entrepreneurs towards a group of leather entrepreneurs. If this group is at least partially eliminated by this law, I will consider it not only the success of this government, not only as the success of this Chamber of Deputies, but also as a success of my own. Finally, allow me to wish the Chamber of Deputies a nice holiday and a lot of success in its work with prognostic advance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-003-029.u3	I thank the President of the Republic for his speech and hand over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-003-029.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has launched item 29, which is a government bill amending laws in connection with proof of the origin of property. I'll ask you in a minute. [[The president leaves the hall, the MPs say goodbye to him bye to the uprising.]] Thank you. I think we said a dignified goodbye to Mr. President on his visit to the Chamber of Deputies. I will have an unusual question for you if you consider it appropriate at this time to continue with the opening point number 29 or if you consider it more appropriate to declare this point interrupted after the President of the Republic has left and returned, I must say a double vote, to the third reading. If you do not object, I will try, without violating the Rules of Procedure, to interrupt item 29 and, according to the originally approved agenda, to address item 115. If anyone does not agree with this, let them propose that they do not agree with the President's procedure. Nobody's suggesting anything, thank you, so you agree with the procedure that I have now put forward. I am going to vote that there are conditions under which we will change the agenda points even at a point other than that determined under the Rules of Procedure Act. First, I'm going to check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I have begun the vote in order number 102, and I ask who agrees that there are conditions for us to change the agenda of the meeting as approved. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 102, from 155 Members present for 148, against no one. Who agrees that we now return to paragraph 115, to the third reading of the bill on public health insurance? I've started the vote on order number 103 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 103, present 158, for 153, against no one. So we went back to the point
