ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u1	138. Final report of the Chamber of Deputies Committee on Investigation of the Opencard case / House Document 1699/ To this point you have been served by House document 1699, which contains a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. I ask the President of this committee of inquiry, Mr Bronislav Schwarz, to take the floor and present the House document. Mr. Chairman of the Commission of Investigation, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Prime Minister, colleagues, I will not enjoy long chatting here. After the experience that I have now experienced here in the House of Elections, I will begin by thanking everyone who made it possible to set up a committee of inquiry with their voice and elected me chairman and nominated some colleagues on the committee that worked with me, because we worked on the committee through the political spectrum for almost six months. I think who has read the final report has found that there are 21 points in the final report that clearly point out that in the Opencard case, reported by Dr Ryšlinková, the police and the state prosecutor, we have made it clear. Based on these 21 errors we have identified, we have come to the conclusion that we have proposed a resolution which I would like to introduce to you. I hope that in the past I will never work in a committee of inquiry that will prove in quotation marks that we really have some state organisations working badly. [[Some Members ridicule: I don't think it's possible in the past. In the future, right?]] Whether on purpose or not, that must be proven by the law enforcement authority. But it convinced me that I lost my ideals where I used to work, and that the cops were leaving the police, it's only my reason, not just because I was retired, but because some of them couldn't work the way they wanted to. After all, my colleague Ondráček here once again presented a serious matter as part of the interview yesterday, so you will take a picture of yourself. Now, Vice-President, I would like to introduce the honourable Chamber of Deputies to the resolutions of our Commission, and I would like to read them. Resolution of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission of 18 November 2014 when the Commission officially ceased its duties. I. Parliamentary Commission of Investigation proposes to take note of the Commission's report to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. II. Parliamentary Commission of Investigation proposes to the Government of the Czech Republic to proceed in terms of the Commission's proposals and recommendations in the chapter of Proposals and Recommendations. III. Parliamentary Investigation Commission in accordance with the provisions of § 48 para. 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Commission of Investigation order the President of the Commission, Bronislav Schwarz, to file a criminal complaint against the supervising prosecutor, Dr Dagmar Máchová, on suspicion of committing an offence of abuse of the authority of an official person, or other offences not specified in detail, in connection with the exercise of surveillance in the Opencard case. IV. Parliamentary Investigation Commission in accordance with the provisions of § 48 para. 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Commission of Investigation order the President of the Commission, Bronislav Schwarz, to file a criminal complaint against a police authority suspected of committing an offence of misuse of the authority of an official person or, where appropriate, other offences not specified in detail, in accordance with the investigation and investigation of the Opencard case. That is our final resolution on four points. In conclusion, I have already complied with the resolution given to me by the committee of inquiry, and I have already filed a criminal complaint. Vice-President, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u3	I thank President Bronislav Schwarz for his report and make a proposal. I am now launching a general debate in which I have Mr Korte and Mr Ivan Gabal signed up. Now, then, Mr Daniel Korte, in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Opencard project has still been the capital of Prague, this tram and library card, over CZK 1.3 billion, and its legacy is now being dealt with by the second political generation after their creators. I won't talk long, I just want to sum up the most important facts we've come up with. The comprehensive criminal report by Dr. Jana Ryšlinková, mentioned by the President, pointed to the criminal activity of an organized group consisting of both the then political representation of the city and the staff of the City Council and the external bodies. The purpose of this group was a conspiracy, a fraud aimed at obtaining unlawful profit from public money. Attorney General, respectively. the relevant police, the investigative authorities, have separated this comprehensive criminal report into partial acts which have subsequently re-qualified, thus creating a complex financial fraud organised by the political representation of the time, seemingly unrelated partial acts which have subsequently been postponed. This excluded the possibility of investigating the criminal liability of the self-governing authorities and the investigation was limited only to subordinate officials of the Magistrate who were merely following the orders of their superiors. The investigation itself was accompanied by a number of... I understand Mr. Tejc doesn't like it, but if the group were so kind, by your means.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u5	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I've done it several times today, I have to do it very seriously now. Please, I ask the House for peace. If you have a discussion other than the Opencard report, transfer it to the lobby and let the debaters comment on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u6	Thank you, Mr President. [[Vice-President Philip: Please proceed.]] The investigation was accompanied by a number of strange and non-standard steps by investigators, police authorities and, in particular, by the prosecutor's office. The investigation was surrounded, blocked, braked. The supervising prosecutor and her superiors were directly involved in the investigation, giving instructions to police officers. With a little figurativeity, it can be said that while the investigators' superiors were throwing sticks at the investigators, the prosecutor's office was pouring sand into their gearing. The investigation committee also found doubt about the professional deployment of the General Inspection of Security Corps, which did not take into account evidence of their non-standard steps in the investigation of the Opencard Police procedure. The chapter itself is the fate of a person from an environment who volunteered for co-operation on her own initiative in exchange for the status of a secret witness. It was an official of the City Council of Prague, which provided the police with valuable information and evidence. The police didn't work with him properly, but the identity of the witness was compromised. Then, of course, he was fired from work, charged, charged, and convicted. At the same time, the State Attorney made a mistake in stating in the final speech that this person did not cooperate with the police, although she had to know that he was the one who was the one who warned the police of the important information and this seriously damaged him. [[13.40 hours]] In questioning the witness of the prosecutor Dr. Dagmar Máchová, who testified only very reluctantly and incompletely, her testimony was very unsatisfactory, after this interview, the interrogation comedian turned to the Supreme Prosecutor. He delegated the handling of a complaint against the immediate superior, Dr. Máchová, who also had a share in the investigation of the Opencard case. She was the one who was directly involved in the investigation. Therefore, it will no doubt not surprise that Dr. Máchová's work covered in her reply, which casts quite a fundamental shadow on the internal control system in the prosecutor's office. That's, I'd say, the basic groundbreaking facts that we've come to. What are the conclusions? During the investigation of the Opencard case, there have been major violations of law enforcement authorities, which have thwarted the proper investigation of the criminal report by Dr. Jana Ryšlinková pointing out complex, organized fraud in the group, whether through negligence or intent. As a result, the investigation was diverted from the real heads of the entire conspiracy and blamed on the ranks of pawns. As a result of the failure to investigate this phase of the Opencard project, the absurd accusation of another political guarantee, i.e. the case of Freedom and Associations. This is also noted by the city court, which has returned Dr Dagmar Máchová's action for revision and investigation, and which states: "As for the substance of the matter, however, it cannot be overlooked that the case is in a way exceptional, affecting a huge number of citizens of Prague, and at the same time the matter is well known in general. At that time, the Senate of the Municipal Court in Prague, to which the matter was assigned, did not meet with anybody who would consider the defendant to be fair when it is pointed out that the error itself occurred at the initial award of the contract and the accusations are only those who tried to resolve the matter." So many City Court resolutions. The investigating committee is not an institution active in criminal proceedings, cannot decide which persons are responsible for those facts and whether they have acted with intent or merely through negligence. This must be decided by others, and therefore the Commission of Investigation has filed a criminal complaint against the police authority and Dr Dagmar Máchová on suspicion of committing an offence of abuse of the authority of an official person, as reported by the President of the Commission. In its report, the Investigative Commission calls on law enforcement authorities to look back at Dr. Jana Ryšlinková's criminal report. The notifier herself, having little confidence that the competent authorities will do so, shall again submit her criminal report. Following the Commission's investigation, it was concluded that the supervision and control of the public prosecutor's system was not sufficient. The cause is rigid ties and long-term personal relationships in the state's attorney's hierarchy. Unfortunately, I am calling on the absent Minister of Justice here to take account of the amendment to the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office - which raises considerable controversy between the lay and the professional public - in order to pay attention to the passages and suggestions of our final report. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying: it has been an honor to work in the first of the twenty committees of inquiry set up by the Chamber of Deputies, which has reached obvious and undisputed conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u7	Thank you, Mr Daniel Korte. I now note the factual remark made by Mr Richard Dolejš. No? Well, no. With proper application, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u8	Hello, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I have prepared a rather extensive analytical paper on this matter, because I do not expect you to study the final report, although I would intercede for it, and it also does not contain many details of what we have learned, but I will try to shorten the whole thing, and if you just give me a few minutes of patience, then tell me some of the main conclusions that I see in it. In my opinion, financial crime, especially organised financial crime, is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u9	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. Please, if you really have a different discussion, transfer it to the lobby and leave the various Members, Members of the Chamber of Deputies, to discuss this report. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u10	- common in many different countries, but, despite all this, there is one fundamental difference between those countries in the field of organised financial crime, namely the ability to detect, affect, and drain illegal income. We can't say that the draining, the unfolding, was 100% preventative, but when we look at some cases from the United States, Iceland, and so on, we see that there are some results after all. Many times during my work at the Commission, I wondered where we belong from the point of view of these countries. I would say that we are a country where financial and organised financial crime is undoubtedly committed and committed, sometimes even tried and punished, for example by the Swiss justice system, but, no doubt, according to the results of the commission's work, we are in a special category. And I don't know what to call her, so someone doesn't feel offended. We are a country where some investigative and judicial bodies representing the State and taxpayers actively join together in an effort not to expose themselves to organised financial crime, and when they reveal themselves so as not to investigate themselves, and if they investigate themselves so as not to condemn themselves, and when they condemn themselves, so as to condemn those who have attempted to expose themselves to financial crime, to convict themselves or to reduce the disastrous consequences from the point of view of citizens. This is our situation. Let me now give a brief example of what was behind the whole problem. If you imagine that your neighbor's cowboys were stolen and chased away by your horses, then you must not investigate a herd stolen from an organized crew, but a series of thefts of individual horses. This will suddenly turn one large and organized theft into a set of banal and everywhere common thefts, which you can chase for years and gradually individual cases of each horse to stop and delay. Yes, someone stole 50 horses, so we're investigating 50 thefts gradually. That was the method that neutralized the whole thing. Why the organized fraud has divided the prosecutor into partial criminal suspicions, she has refused to inform the commission of inquiry. Why it has reduced the amount of funds that Prague has spent on Opencard in general, it has failed to explain or defend. Why didn't she take into account the audit reports of renowned firms and follow the obscure assessment of the suspicious company she chose couldn't explain. Whether or not it followed the financial flows of large amounts of money, it refused to inform the Commission. And of course, because according to everyone, she didn't really follow them. Why she accused the cooperating defendant of cooperating and had him convicted, she refused to explain. No one explained how a police inspection of the magistrate's offices had been tampered with and delayed by several days and that they were probably already informed by the officials in the second term. Why the Attorney General at the very beginning detained the sharp start of the investigation by at least a few weeks, refused to explain. [[13.50 hours]] Now a few more examples of how such crime is committed. The first example is the so-called Opencard rollout, which was tasked with the newcomer director of the IT department, who received the annual IT budget from 600 miles. CZK 2 billion. Pražan's Pražans card, as the new tram was famously called, didn't want to buy and didn't trust it. The situation was resolved simply in the old days, by the City Hall's decision to cancel all other forms of subscription, including school youth and pensioners. And what was needed happened, the Pražan became hostages to the Opencard project and had to buy the card to the will. The Prague public transport subscription was privatized directly into the hands of Hagues by decision of Prague City Hall and Councillors. The tender document for Opencard was originally picked up by several dozen companies, only one submitted the offer, the town hall awarded the contract. I wonder why other companies didn't bother. For example, because the procurement documents and the project concept -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u11	Please, Mr. Ambassador, I will interrupt you once more. I will try again to calm you all down and listen to Mr Gabal in his application for a debate that he has received. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u12	For example, because one and the same man worked on the procurement documentation and design of the project, first as an expert on the town hall side until the tender procedure and then as a co-operation operator of the company that made the only offer and received the tender. When the audit of the financial machinations found - and let us leave aside the fact that the auditors did not get into the Transport Company at that time, which the Board could not force to issue its accounts for forensic audits - the council then handled it in exchange for a responsible councilman, and it became a miracle. After hearing, the new councilman Richter, whose contents Mr Richter did not recall before the committee of inquiry, managed to miraculously save and lower the project, because, according to him, Haguess forgave him about 170 miles. unpaid invoices. Don't answer that! But when we asked why someone would forgive someone for 170 miles. The crown, he didn't remember. What did the company get for this concession? No one investigated this, and the councillor did not answer the Commission's question, but still, Haguess and later Emoney's successor Emoney an undisputed copyright holder at Opencard, however many of the politicians, including the above-mentioned extravagant, lied in front of the commission and the public that the tender for the operation of Opencard could be newly and their merit completely open, although it was not and still is not true. Let me just make a few more conclusions that I see as important, so what about all of this? 1. In addition to the direct actions that the commission of inquiry has criminally proposed and taken, I would advocate that the final report receive attention from relevant executives and justice actors. I'm not saying it's a complete and precise text and a picture, but through this one case, it's an objective and impartial view of our judicial system. 2. There is no doubt that the current system of internal control and rotation of prosecutors requires a fundamental adjustment so that similar local political or other links of prosecutors cannot occur. I will not stress here, in which all Prague and under-examined or delayed cases the name of the relevant representative of the State of Máchová appeared. This also shows the absence of adequate supervision of supervisors and of excessive stability, long - suffering and interlinking of many years of work and interest, if not laziness and alibism. And if, therefore, the law permits this, the law needs to be amended. It may not be possible to abandon the direction of maintaining the independence of the prosecutor's office at the Ministry of Justice, but independence must not become irresponsible and out of liability for extraordinary failures and lack of control of work and performance, let alone in the event of suspicion of criminal offences or suspicion of his sweeping under the carpet. I wouldn't hesitate to use the word "alibism" or "slendrian" in the D.A.'s internal control. And the investigation in Belinzona, Switzerland, shows it's probably not the first time. And that is no longer the case with what it did to me, the Kafkův Process, that is something much, much worse. If the new law does not change the mechanism for the selection of prosecutors, their rotation and mandatory internal control will not take place with the responsibility of superiors for failure or manipulation and the long-standing irresponsible or unlawful conduct of subordinates, we will not move forward. And let's not even ask where justice and justice remain. 3. There is no dispute that in our justice system, constitutionally guaranteed equality is more of an illusion before the law, and that it may be possible to achieve inequality and privileges in favour of some interest groups through political influence or something else. And what is an extremely serious degradation of the entire constitutional order and the status of the rule of law and the legality within it. Whether the inequality of citizens before the law can be directly linked to the possible corruption or political cover of criminal behaviour is a question, but at a hypothetical level represented by this case, there are some indications. On the contrary, it can be observed that an individual who was not backed up by powerful interest backgrounds and influences, if he wants to combat lawlessness or corruption, has only a small chance, however right he may have been. 4. To what extent this unfortunate state and trend can get rid of justice itself, I dare not guess, but it is indisputable that a very effective counter-weapon against corrupt conditions...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u13	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u14	I think the members of the committee are discussing conclusions. ... the whole sphere of civil society is corrupt, especially ad hoc and self-defense or interest associations of citizens. They are engaged in the Opencard case and are engaged in a number of cases, and I am responsible for saying that without their robust and constant pressure, even our commission of inquiry would probably not have come into existence. 5. The Opencard case strongly indicates that kafkovský state prosecutorial circumstances have encountered similar conditions within the elite police force in the face of financial manipulation in the political sphere. Even the conditions in the ÚOKFK in the incriminating period can be suspected rather than from chaos of undue acknowledgment, if not acquiescing and serving political interests. Some of the former high-ranking officers of this department were not telling the truth or lying directly to the committee, aware of their past manipulations and in an attempt to avert their discovery. On the other hand, the State Attorney's Act should also bear in mind the greater protection of honest policemen's work from erring or deliberately manipulating prosecutors. 6. Financial crime makes sense only if it is paid, i.e. if the financial return is managed by the perpetrators and the accomplices to ensure, legalize, propratize and protect. Therefore, in order to heal the described conditions, I consider it desirable for the most double-minded, hard legislation aimed at proving the origin of the suspiciously acquired property and its draining in the event that the origin was not crediblely proven. If we can't collect massive proceeds from crime and financially organized crime, we don't have a chance to get out of this jungle. 7. Completely to the end. It took us several months of work to overcome the considerable distrust of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation Commission within and outside Parliament. For me and for this first experience, it is a unique instrument for which Parliament can help in a situation where the judicial system has lost its ability to combat organised crime, at least in some region or region, and it must not be suffocated, but must not be ashamed of it and be able to deploy it on time and in a targeted manner. I thank my fellow Members from the Commission for their cooperation and positive experience and thank them for their efforts and solidarity, in which party jerseys and partial political interests have completely disappeared. I also thank my team of collaborators.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u15	I thank Mr Ivan Gabal. Allow me first to read the apology of Mrs Chalánková, who has been delivered to me. He's been apologizing since 13:00. I will now ask you for a moment of patience, because according to the agreement of the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, we should have finished at 14 o'clock. I suggest we finish this point at least. Because I have no one else to debate and the motion for a resolution was made by the President of the Commission. I think that this will not be anything we can do, although I respect, of course, the right of the members of the parliamentary clubs to propose a procedure for the House's negotiations. If no one signs up for a general debate, I am ending the general debate. I open a detailed debate and ask the President of the Bronislav Schwarz Commission of Investigation to present a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u16	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to repeat only because there have been a few questions, it is only a matter of voting that the Chamber of Deputies should take note today of the final report of the Opencard parliamentary committee of inquiry, nothing else. Everything else was within the competence of the Commission under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I repeat, only the Chamber of Deputies notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-01-23-ps2013-025-04-022-138.u17	Thank you. Someone else in a detailed debate with another proposal for the outcome of the commission of inquiry? I don't register anyone else. I am concluding a detailed debate. Is there an interest in the final word, Mr. Chairman? It's not like that. We will vote on the only motion for a resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies takes note of the report of the Commission of inquiry to investigate the way in which the Opencard case was investigated under House document 1699. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has settled, we will decide on this proposal by voting order number 76, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 76, 138 for 137, was adopted. We have taken note of the report of the commission of inquiry and the work of the committee is thus terminated. I will therefore end today's meeting day as well. The meeting will continue with a proper February deadline. It's committee week next week, so I'm looking forward to seeing you on February 10th.
