ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u1	139. Oral inhalation The first written interview to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who is unfortunately absent, will be presented by Mrs Marta Semelová. It will be in the case of the Sudeten German compatriotic association. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u2	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, on 8 April a general meeting of the Sudeton German compatriotic association in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia took place in Prague. It was also attended by President Witikobund, the most radical organization of sudetolandsmanšaft, which is also considered extremist in Germany. That the association was after several years of refusal of registration The Ministry of the Interior is now registered under the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, I consider the slap of the participants in the anti-fascist resistance and the Czech families expelled from their homes in the border areas. After opening the Sudetolandsmanšaft office in Prague, this is another scandalous event, which sparked particularly this year, when we commemorate the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, rightly upset citizens. In the statutes of the said association, it is condemned - I quote - the expulsion, genocide and ethnic cleansing after World War II in the territory of Central and Eastern Europe, with persons who have committed this being regarded as war criminals and who belong to the courts. According to the interpretation of these statutes, persons who have become victims have the right to compensation for damage and satisfaction, further to grant them or their heirs the citizenship of the Czech Republic and to renew their right of ownership through unlawful confiscation of property. According to the association, the president's decrees of 1945 were the legalization of obvious injustice and demand their abolition. He also intends to start his own publishing house, build monuments etc. I also draw attention to the concerns of our citizens in the borderlands, where the descendants of the Sudeten Němec are shamelessly going to view and photograph the houses where people live. It is striking that the enthusiasm of the critics of the President's trip to Moscow, but also of the media, which should objectively inform about events in our country and abroad, is silent on this event. [[Attention on time.]] I want to ask what position the Czech Government will take on this, whether we will see it publicly condemning these activities and what other steps it will take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u3	Thank you, Mrs Semelová. It will be answered in writing. Another interviewer is Mr František Laudát, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the financing of the ESA project. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Vice-President, the Prime Minister isn't here, so it's a bit of a problem. Anyway, I'll at least tell you. The subject of my interpelation was the funding of the ESA project, which is the space agency in which we accepted membership. And the point is that there is a mandatory part that involves an annual contribution of CZK 300 million, and then there are optional programs, where we can choose. Although the compulsory part was approved, but I don't know if all the money had been paid already, and I wanted to ask that, because there was a situation just recently that because of the Ministry of Education, which didn't send in any way 100 million, because it consists of the 300 million, the quota, so the shame broke out that we haven't paid yet. And as far as the non-optional part is concerned, the amendment that was made was not approved there, and it was a joint amendment across the coalition - the opposition, yet it was not approved in this year's budget discussion, even though Czech companies are very eager to participate in a number of these programmes, it is about 9 optional programmes. At the same time, I wanted to ask the Prime Minister how the preparation and work for the establishment of a separate space agency continues, where it would be a separate entity, which would then integrate into itself all activities that would not be given any money would be very difficult. So I guess I don't know if the Prime Minister will answer that in writing, or I'll do it again next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u5	I thank Mr Laudát. The Prime Minister will answer the space agency in writing. Another interpellation. Mrs Chalánková will intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the current situation of children taken from Norway. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u6	Dear Prime Minister, I do not understand why some Members did not support the proposal yesterday that the Czech Party should find out the current situation of Michalákův's children in Norwegian foster families. I take such a request for granted. These are exclusively Czech citizens and their own family and the Czech state do not know anything about their lives. Direct contact of the representative of the Czech state with children is particularly important with regard to the older of the boys Denis, because he was last seen more than a year ago and the family has justified concerns about his health. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you publicly to personally initiate a verification of the need for care for children in foster families. Such a step can be taken through the Czech consulate in Oslo with reference to Article 36 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. Finally, I would like to bring to the right a certain untruth that was said here yesterday. From the mouth of Minister Zaorálek, we have heard that they will act when the mother gives consent to the entry of the Office for International Child Protection into all files. This consent has already been signed by the mother on 14 March 2015 and I have this document at the disposal of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u7	I thank Mrs Chalánková. Mr Igor Nykl, who will interpel the Prime Minister in the case of the town hall in Frýdek-Místek, will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, in my interview, I am following up on the interview that was presented by me in the autumn of 2014, where I was surprised that you did not mind that the four criminally prosecuted members of social democracy were at the very first place candidates for the municipal elections in Frýdek-Místek, which I considered unacceptable for citizens. People saw it, in the election it turned out that after many years of social democracy in a city where she always won soberly, she lost. She lost to the YES movement. Then what happened? Social democracy did not accept losing and subsequently worked with many amoral procedures, such as using various secret recordings of private phones, etc., in order to betray the winner of the election. That's a good one. A new coalition between social democracy and the so-called Our City movement has been formed. But this led to the fact that, for example, the ex-senator of social democracy, Mrs Richtrová, has stepped out of the social democracy club and said that she does not want to rule in the city with the greats. We have two members of the town council prosecuted, one of whom is the mayor. Social democracy is trying to keep the vote secret in the city, which is absurd and unprecedented in the Czech Republic. And when I wanted to draw attention to that, I was not allowed, as Members of Parliament, to speak at this council, to turn off the microphone completely contrary to the law on municipalities and the Rules of Procedure. I therefore ask you, as the Supreme Representative, to express and address this situation which damages the perception of politics in the eyes of citizens as such, because Frýdek-Místek is now a symbol of a very special policy represented by your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u9	I thank Mr Nykl. The last interview to the Prime Minister, who is unfortunately absent, will be presented by Mrs Věra Kovářová, and it will be an interpelation in the matter of interpelation. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u10	Dear Prime Minister, I wanted to ask you about the problem in my interpellation today, which represents the absence of members of the government just during the interpellation. [[Laughs in the courtroom.]] Your absence is, I'm afraid, also a kind of answer. I'd be happy to repeat my question at the earliest opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u11	Well, thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. We dealt with all oral interpelations to the Prime Minister and move on to oral interpelations according to the winning order to individual members of the government. Mr. Jiří Koubek, Mr. Andrej Babiš, will give the first interview to the Minister of Finance. It'll be an interpellation on breakfast with Mafra. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, on the website of the Mafra Group, I read that on 24. 3. The event Mafra - breakfast with Andrej Babiš, or the morning meeting of leading representatives of the top Czech political scene with the highest representatives of important companies, businesses operating in the Czech Republic and beyond, took place at the InterContinental Hotel. So much official and vizzo to this event on the website. You, Minister, admitted in the past interviews that the breakfast event with Andrej Babiš, organized by Mafra owned by Andrej Babiš, was sponsored by ČEZ, in which the Ministry of Finance led by Andrej Babiš exercises the shareholder rights of the Czech Republic. On Thursday, April 9th, Minister, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, you said that CEZ paid CZK 200,000 for this event. Let me quote this: Supposedly it is, a moment - now you've been browsing the documents you have with you - for CZK 200,000, so if necessary, I'll give them to you tonight and we can take them to ČEZ together. If Beneš opens the register, you can take him to the register. So many quotes from your exact words. My question, Minister, is: Mr Minister, did you return the CZK 200,000 as the owner of the Mafra company? Please, when was that? I'm not asking if Beneš opened the register. I consider this statement extremely incorrect from the mouth of the Minister of the Czech Government towards the CEO of ČEZ. I assume that the payment took place without cash and that you therefore have a written document to prove your words to you. Please berit my interpelation as informational, as I have not read anywhere on the website and I would have saved myself this interpelation if this information were there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u13	I thank Mr Koubek. I'll ask the Minister of Finance for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we are growing a new generation of young politicians, ambitious, who are trying to and will replace that generation with a revolutionary one. About the interpellation. I must disappoint you, Congressman, but I had bad information. First of all, I did not know that ČEZ sponsored the breakfast, and also the information about 200,000 crowns was incorrect because the breakfast I attended cost 25,000 and it was 8 breakfasts, so 8 x 25 is 200,000. It's true I promised 200 grand here, but it was 25 grand, but that's not the point. I immediately started to act, and unfortunately, all the participants in the relationship refused because they said, "Well, we've been doing this for ten or fifteen years, so why should we do this now? In the end, I solved it by sending the 200 grand to the ČEZ Foundation. There was no other way to deal with it. I gave ČEZ a donation contract of CZK 200,000. It took me a while to sort this out, because all the participants rejected this interview as meaningless, because then we'd have to go to extremes and probably no one should even buy the newspaper they own or listen to the radio they own. I understand that the opposition is desperate today, that it has nothing but Babiš, so it interpels all kinds of nonsense and lies all the time. It's clear now that Kalousek lied when he said I was getting $5 billion. I'm not getting anything, and I'm so glad the support is finally over. And I'm also so glad that thanks to you, the 1.5 billion that the state gave to biofuels consumers, they're gonna pay the citizens. So when the support is over, fuel prices will rise, and it will be thanks to Kalousek and your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u15	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I will leave it at the discretion of the viewers and citizens of the Czech Republic whether there is a difference between 25 thousand and 200,000, it doesn't matter what you said here. Personally, I think it doesn't matter. I appreciate it if you gave this 200,000 crowns. Thank you for this information. I'm sorry, but given the number of times you've made a different promise out of your mouth, I'd like to see a written document for that, and I'm sure that's not a problem. If you're saying that no one wants to return it, you own Mafra, just like you're the manager, you said you'd be running the company here as a company, so I assume that you run your business in such a way that you're able to bring the document in and prove your words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister with his follow-up response. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u18	Looks like the young hopeful politician has set up a career to attack Babiš. I understand that you politicians don't keep your word. I'm holding him because I did the handshake business. So here's the donation agreement. Yeah? And basically, I'll give you a bank statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u19	That's how we dealt with the first interview with the Minister of Finance. Mr Petr Kudela will now intersect the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on aid to the countries of Africa and the Middle East. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u20	Hello, Mr President, honourable members of the government, Minister, dear colleagues. I'm here to interview the Secretary of State. We are all following the situation that is culminating in the countries of the southern part of Europe, especially in Italy. There is a threat of a new migration of nations. In the countries of North Africa and the Middle East, structures have been destroyed or collapsed to maintain the functionality of these countries. Logically, they have become out of control, chaos and terror. To what extent and how targeted this has been influenced by other countries, we can only speculate. Without control, chaos and terror associated with the vision of safe and carefree life in Europe raises masses of people. They leave the places where they live and travel to the collection camps and further to Europe. This is an unknown situation for Europe, and Europe cannot handle it. A mixture of culturally different people, largely illiterate, for life in Europe completely unprepared. What is the solution? To block the possibility of illegal entry into Europe, to build detention centres on the coast of Africa and in stable countries of the Middle East, on televisions and the Internet, not just to create an image tempting Europe for people with no perspective, who often have nothing left to lose, to call on rich Arab countries to participate in solving the situation, and to help themselves stabilize the countries from which people are fleeing. I ask how the Czech Republic is involved in this. Does the subsidy of CZK 73 million in 2014 seem sufficient to help third countries? It is almost an amount that was able to mobilize thanks to the three-king collection Charity Czech Republic. How does the Czech Republic help to build functional state structures in the countries of North Africa and the Middle East? How does the Czech Republic work on rich Arab states to get involved in the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u21	I thank Mr Kudel and ask the Foreign Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u22	Thank you. Have a good day. So how much do I have? Five minutes. The problem, of course, is huge. You are right in your speech when you said that this is quite an unprecedented situation, because the extent of migration is really extraordinary and, of course, related to the breakdown of the structures of states in sub-Saharan Africa, to the events in states such as Syria, Iraq, Yemen and others. [[14.50 hours]] The ones I listed are probably the worst affected, where we ask ourselves, what are the chances of these states returning to their original borders, when we are talking about Syria, Iraq, etc. And, of course, the fact that governments do not control the entire territory there today, that the number of disbanded states has increased, that is one important factor, and one that seems to me to be extremely strong, except that the territories that are victims of civil war are often fighting for their lives there. They often find themselves with their families in situations that do not give a chance to work or to live or to live, and therefore leave them because they do not see a chance in their country. But similarly, the refugee wave is vital, for example, from sub-Saharan Africa, which does not have such clear reasons as the wave of refugees from Syria, but also the wave is quite intense and is given a sense of imprudentity, because in those countries, governments often rule, which do not give young prospects, give families a chance to live a decent life, and even those who have studied often feel that their countries have no future. But their determination and their energy are also quite large. Recently, at a conference in Barcelona, one of the ministers told me that their energy was ten times greater than the one we were able to counter as some kind of barrier. Nor can it be doubted that the wave of economic refugees, social refugees, is essential and is something that is not short-term and is a long-term process. You are, of course, right in that it is today a challenge for the countries of the European Union, including the Czech Republic. In the last ten days, a number of meetings have been held at the level of the highest institutions and boards, or at the highest meetings of the European Council, the Council of Ministers and others. The key topic, which was there for several hours, was the theme of the response to the situation in the Mediterranean Sea and actually the response to the migration wave. In a time that I have, which is not much, I can only say that there are several instruments in terms of our reaction, especially the Czech Republic. Of course, at the meeting of the last European Council, we have now committed ourselves to supporting increased funding for actions such as Triton, Poseidon in the Mediterranean. We have committed ourselves to releasing CZK 10 million, we have committed ourselves to a number of actions that the Czech Republic offers as a concrete aid to a very urgent situation that arose in the Mediterranean Sea. And, of course, if we were to talk about the overall approach of the Czech Republic, we need to realize that this is not just a matter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is in charge of humanitarian aid, especially helping people, internally displaced refugees in the basic response. Of course, our tool is also development aid, which is longer-term and perhaps very important precisely to be able to prevent similar situations. But there is also a great role for the Ministry of the Interior, which directs the process of legal migration, illegal migration. He is directly in charge of the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for the program on the assistance of refugees in regions of origin and prevention of large migration movements. This isn't just a matter of purely the State Department, I'm saying this for accuracy, so it's obvious that the task is so big that it's not just a matter of one ministry. We're working pretty closely with the Home Office here. If you wanted to know about humanitarian aid, I'd tell you that we're giving it about 73 million a year, of course the extent of development aid is much larger. And the last thing I'm going to say in the last few seconds is that I wish that, perhaps even here in Parliament, we could agree that it is precisely for the prevention of development aid that needs to be increased significantly in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u23	I thank the Minister for his response in his time. With an additional question, Mr Kudela?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u24	I will ask, Minister, whether this year we will increase the grant for development and humanitarian aid, whether it is planned for next year's budget with a higher amount than this year, and I ask what we will do, or what the Czech Republic can do with Saudi Arabia, which builds the wall so that refugees, especially Muslims, cannot do to it, which we then hunt from water and secure in Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u25	Answers to the microphone, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u26	Yes. I am just because everything cannot be said on the microphone, so I said something directly to the honourable Member, but here I will just say that of course I can assure him and prove that we are actually having talks with those, I would say, with the rich states of the Gulf, because these are obviously the ones that we are talking about, and that we point out that, of course, the Czech Republic, Europe, is also responsible for what is happening in the region under attack by civil wars, but we feel that the fundamental responsibility must also be felt by those who live directly in the region. And, of course, those who we know have relatively considerable resources should greatly help the solution. I also think building a wall is not ideal at the moment. I can only assure you that this is a thing that I do not keep to myself, and that is indeed the subject of debate with these states when I have the option, and I have it quite often. We talk about this quite often in the last 14 days. As far as resources are concerned, of course, I very much welcome the fact that you say, and I feel that you understand this very well, that if we want to prevent it, we have to put money in those places before the collisions happen. I totally agree with you. I wish we could find a consensus in the government that, for example, development aid is something that requires strengthening, if we are serious about prevention. And I am, of course, very pleased that the Minister of Finance is sitting behind me because I am waiting for talks on the chapter of the State Department's budget, and I would like it to sound as strongly as possible that if we want to prevent it, we must have the money to do so. Development aid is linked to financial possibilities. I'd like to expand them, we're in agreement, and just interpel me like this more often.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u27	This is certainly a challenge for other colleagues as well. Thank you, Minister. Mrs Jitka Chalánková will give her third interview to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on inspection of the provision of social services. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u28	Madam Secretary, I wonder how it is possible that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not carried out inspections on the provision of social services that have passed on to them since January 2015. X workers from the Labour Office have been cut, I estimate about 30, but the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not been fully prepared, although it has changed the bill itself to transfer inspections to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So these employees are doing nothing. They don't have the conditions, the place, the computers, they're not assigned work, they have the so-called. home working. In the first three months of the year, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs carried out six inspections of the provision of social services. How is it possible that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, by the way, can be thus unprepared, not create conditions for implementing such an important agenda, plus pay several dozens of employees without doing the job? Someone should be responsible for that at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. Why should taxpayers pay for this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u29	Thank you, ma'am. I'd like to ask the secretary. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u30	Mr President, honourable Members, yes, as of 1 January 2015, inspectors and social services inspectors have transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. These people moved from the Czech Labour Office, where the previous government put them, which not only broke up the labour offices, but also burdened them with an agenda that does not belong to the labour authorities. We're dealing with it to this day, because it takes years for it to break up, so it really takes a couple of years to get it together. And if you have noticed, 700 people returned to the office of work for Minister Koníček. an active employment policy, because that is what the labour authorities are supposed to do. When I came back, 600 plus 300 people returned to the benefits of material distress, an agenda that was added to the authorities of work for former Minister Drábek from your side. So don't be surprised that maybe the start is a little slower than you'd expect. [[15.00 hours]] However, inspectors, for example, checked two very serious cases that occurred, and that was actually two deaths, one in a nursing home in Karvina and one in a shelter in Prague. These two cases are closed with certain findings, where in Karvina social services were quite well, because the lady lived in a nursing home, but she was not a user of any social services, so there was no breach. In the case of an asylum house, certain measures were taken, such as the removal of single rooms at the asylum house, as it turned out that the staff believed that the client was lying in the hospital and did not know that he was lying dead in the room. So I would like to assure everyone present that, of course, the inspection will be much more. You must also realize that each inspection carried out is not one visit to a facility, but that is a lot of other agenda around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u31	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u32	I don't even have such an additional question as a remark that we have learned much, but the answer to my interpelation is basically not. So once again, I warn you that we have about 30 employees, when the Ministry itself demanded that these inspections be transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, yet they still have no chance of carrying out the agenda. I draw attention to the fact that we will monitor this whole problem so that these workers do their job and are not paid for nothing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u33	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will give the fourth interview to the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on the statement of diplomat Bartuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, members of the government, colleagues, were on www.neotikni.cz on 24. 4. 2015 published an article entitled "Diplomat Bartuška: Don't have an illusion, Putin will not stop in Ukraine." In this article, Václav Bartuška, in describing events in eastern Ukraine in Donetsk, Luhansk and other cities, literally stated - quote: A group of civilians will occupy administrative buildings. Men, women, children. Within two days, weapons start to be carried there, women and children leave, remain armed. If you face them quickly, like they did in Odessa, where they were just burned, or Dnipropetrovsk, where they were just killed and buried on the side of the road, you have peace. If you don't, you're at war. That's all. End of quote. In the media, I have noticed some of your assessment of this statement of your subordinate, but can you inform us here, in the House, if you have any moral code of diplomat at the State Department? And can you make a public assessment of these statements made by a diplomat and a government agent for energy security? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u35	Thank you, honourable Member. I ask the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u36	Thank you. Colleagues, that was a really extremely stupid conversation that was quoted here. I would say first that if someone in Ukraine were to be burned, they would have committed a crime under our legal order. If this were to happen at a time of peace, for example during civil unrest, it would be murder. If this had happened under armed conflict conditions, it would have been a war crime to make it clear how to classify it. I can judge this from the point of view of the Ministry by denying everything, both our foreign policy concept and our international relations, which we have, but even our internal regulations, and one can say the whole order, which I think should be subject to the behavior of everyone who performs and is actually an employee of the Ministry in any position. I admit that this conversation really picked me up, too, and I, as soon as I checked what was said, sent Mr. Bartušek what I thought about it. I don't want to repeat that here, but in principle, it's not about the legal assessment right now, but what I think is political and moral. And I considered this morally completely unacceptable and completely incredibly cynical for me. In this sense, I told Mr Bartušek in writing what I think about what he said morally. As far as legal is concerned, that's not my place. As far as I know, there's been some motion to prosecute. That would be a matter for the state authorities to judge, because I can't say here if, as I said before, this was an extremely stupid conversation about intent. To judge whether someone will see it as a lure to a violent act, I think, is the very thing of those who are going to deal with it, and that is what I am not going to judge for myself. It's for other people. I am merely saying that this is actually contrary to all that I wish to include the foreign policy of the Czech state. The last thing that bothers me about it is that the experience you have of watching and watching these conflicts of war is that I feel like there are two rationality. One is the rationality of war and the other is the rationality of peace. And it seems to me that in those regions where the thinking of peace will give way to the thinking of war, of course, there are atrocities and crimes that we remain shocked by. We saw it in Yugoslavia too, I remember that, the performances of Mladič, that's when they said we'd shoot each other in living flesh. You see, that's the logic of people living in this environment where decent people were pushed to the edge. It seems to me that the main task we have is simply not to allow this type of thinking to get into the Czech Republic in any way, which is why it bothers me immensely when someone starts expressing themselves in this way, which is as if coming from the logic of a completely different environment. The role of us politicians in countries that serve peace is that we must not allow such a type of thinking. That's why I responded. I haven't met Mr. Bartuška yet because he was abroad at first, and now because of the coalition negotiations and others, I ended up late at night, so it wasn't possible to do it, but I'm definitely going to meet him and this whole thing is definitely not over at this point. But I'm going to inform you, first of all, that I really feel that this is something that has really offended me, because it's in a fundamental dispute with what I'm trying to do at the head of the State Department in this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u37	The Member and his supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. That'll be quick. Minister, thank you for your position. I filed a statement of the facts suggesting that a crime might have been committed. Of course, I see the level of justice in this, which is why I did this. Let me just ask you this: will any specific measures be taken against Mr Bartušek for these outrageously cynical, offensive, and I am not afraid to say fascinating statements? If so, then so be it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u39	Thank you, honourable Member. For a brief follow-up answer, please the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u40	Definitely will be. I'm not going to tell you what the outcome will be before the meeting with Mr. Bartuška, but I can assure you. I myself said that it is also a violation of internal regulations and at all manner of behavior. [[unintelligible]] Regardless of the legal side, there have been violations of both political, say, directives or concepts, international relations and what we are committed to in them, and I believe the rules, internal regulations, the functioning of the Ministry have also been violated. Of course, I must draw some conclusions from this. But leave that to me in particular.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u41	I thank the Minister for his answers. The fifth interview will be given by Mr Ludvík Hovorka to the absent Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček on the introduction of screening for birth defects in the immunity of newborns. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear absent Minister, following the heated debates on vaccination, I have learned that it is possible to provide screening for the lack of immunity of newborns. Severe congenital disorders of immunity occur more frequently in our population than innate metabolic defects. Without screening, congenital immunity disorder in a child, which is protected by antibodies from the mother in the first months of life, may not appear after birth and will usually be revealed later. Therefore, live vaccines should not be administered in children with cellular immunity problems, as they may cause disease with very serious consequences instead of protection. This applies to both rotavirus vaccines and BCG vaccines and rubella vaccines, measles and mumps of MMR. Recently, doctors for the Czech Republic have prepared a screening test for congenital cellular and antibody immunity disorders called TREC and KREC. Laboratory examination is available at the Faculty of Medicine of Masaryk University in Brno and at the 2nd Faculty of Medicine of Charles University in Prague. These tests will be detected immediately after the birth of a T and B-lymphocyte disorder. Screening testing is now common in the United States and is introduced in Norway. Screening immunodeficiency was prepared by professor Vojtěch Thon from St. Anne's University Hospital in Brno several years ago. Currently, our doctors are able to detect one of the severe immune system disorders due to clinical and laboratory tests including TREC and KREC screenings from the dry blood drop of the newborn in time and start early treatment according to diagnosis. The examination is very inexpensive and therefore very cost-effective compared to possible subsequent treatment of child health damage following negative reactions following the administration of vaccines. Dear Minister, what will the Ministry of Health do for the introduction of this screening in the Czech Republic? Don't you think the introduction of screening could increase parents' confidence in the safety of vaccination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u43	I thank Mr Hovorka. His interview will be answered in writing by the Minister. Next, Mrs Markéta Adamová, who will also interpel the absent Minister of Education on inclusive education, will give an interview. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u44	Dear absent Minister, after the adoption of the amendment to the School Act, in my opinion, the debate on inclusive education has been rather quiet. However, the adoption of the amendment itself will not ensure inclusion. We both agree that the support measures taken for pupils with special educational needs will not work if they are not further supported, not only financially. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. Will the government submit a comprehensive and detailed implementation plan for the newly approved legislation? If so, by when they will. The plan should include information on future changes for schools and school advisory facilities. Furthermore, will the government present a detailed financing reform plan that will be in line with newly approved changes, school needs and consultancy facilities? Once again, until when. And will the government ensure sufficient safeguards and methodology for the correct use of revised diagnostic tools? Dear Minister, thank you in advance for the written answer to the questions attached.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u45	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will intersect the present Minister of Culture Daniel Herman on the upcoming regulation of the media, will give the seventh interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u46	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, you were hardly involved in my previous interpellation because most of the time I interpelled you, you were present. However, at the beginning of April, I interviewed you about the upcoming regulation of the media, and I must say that your extensive response was interesting, unfortunately not complete. In principle, you have focused solely on radio and television broadcasting, and the situation in the field of printed or electronic media has remained a matter of interest to you. I'm sure it's just an oversight. Dear Minister, could you please also express your opinion on the forthcoming regulation regarding the regulation of the concentration of electronic and printed media ownership, so that it is quite clear what the government is up to in this area? For the sake of completeness, I would like to remind you that I am relying on the commitment contained in the coalition agreement in the chapter Development of Culture and Sport Support, which reads: Following the model of developed countries, we will specify the rules on media ownership concentration. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u47	Thank you, Madame. I'm gonna ask the minister to respond to the interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I informed you last month regarding the upcoming changes to media laws, the legislative work plan for 2015 includes, on the one hand, an amendment to the law on radio and television broadcasting and, on the other, an amendment to the laws on Czech Radio and Czech Television. The first will be presented to the government in July, the second in December of this year. The Ministry of Culture is currently still in the process of preparing a draft amendment to the Broadcasting Act. One of the topics addressed in this activity is, as I said last time, the issue of media ownership concentration. This is a very specific issue because it concerns pluralism of information and it is therefore necessary to approach it on the basis of knowledge of all relevant information and facts. The Ministry cannot propose changes to this regulation without an exhaustive analysis of the media environment in the Czech Republic, or without the institutions clearly declaring that the media market in the Czech Republic is disrupted by the concentration of ownership, but at the same time to be clearly confirmed by the analyses that this concentration reduces the pluralism of information. As regards the so-called competent institutions that I have mentioned, this is primarily the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council and the Office for the Protection of Competition. What goes across all the considerations about the rules on media ownership concentration is the question of effective control. This depends on the possibility to verify the actual owners of the companies that control the broadcasters. This is indeed an essential matter that needs to be addressed and which is a prerequisite for implementing other rules. The existing legislation already contains in many respects prohibitions and restrictions on the concentration of ownership in radio and television broadcasting. If you ask me to make an assurance that I will put forward a proposal to limit the concentration of ownership to the periodic press, I cannot at this time give you that assurance, for the reasons that I just mentioned. Please note that the requirements for processing a government proposal cannot be circumvented. It must also be taken into account that advanced countries, from which we could take an example, do not currently impose new restrictions on media ownership, but, on the contrary, seek to achieve effective application of existing rules by ensuring sufficient transparency in media ownership relations. In general, I would like to add to the question of the upcoming regulation of the media that the area of broadcasting and the media is going through major changes at all. New forms of content distribution are emerging, but the existing ones continue to play an important role in people's lives, and an optimal setting of the legal environment needs to be found so that these two worlds can function fairly and efficiently alongside each other. We are not just standing before this question in the Czech Republic. This is an up-to-date issue that is being addressed to the European Commission, as the cornerstone of the whole regulation on broadcasting and audiovision is a harmonisation European regulation, a directive on audiovisual media services. So, first of all, we will have a very difficult debate at European level, and then we will be faced with the task of projecting the outcome of this debate into our legal order. At this point in the upcoming amendment to the Act on the Operation of Radio and Television Broadcasting, it will therefore be a technical amendment to correct the shortcomings of the Act which complicate its application by the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. However, this does not mean that the work on legislation is over. On the contrary, as I have already outlined, these work will continue very intensively in the context of the European process of revision of the regulation of audiovisual media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u49	Thank you, Minister. Does the honourable Member have a delicate supplementary question? Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u50	If you need analysis, here's a small analysis. Josenský, Čásenský, Škrabal, Musil, Dražanová, Moravec, Klímová, Klos, Kmenta, Mašek, Novotný, Ševela, Viktora, Poláček, Slonková, Kubík, Syrovátka, Zlámalová, Bártová, Hrubeš, Suchan, Balšínek, Křivka, Martínek, Němeček, Suchan, Dolejší, Balšínek, Zátorský, Drchal, Janík, Kaiser, Kálal, Pešek, Štindl, Weiss, Zlámalová, Hrubeš, Kalenský, Šafaříková, Eliášová, Sodomková, Drchal. Dear Minister, as you know, this is a list of the names of the editors of the Mladá fronta today and of the Lidové noviny who have recently left these journals. Why, it's obvious. I fear that mass statements will not solve the problem, and therefore a change in the legal framework needs to be prepared quickly in accordance with the programme statement. That is what I call you to do. If you said you couldn't guarantee that you'd present something, should I write something? [[Time warning]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u51	Minister, is there something to be done? I beg your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u52	Of course, all Members are called, let us say, by their mandate to be legislators and to take such an initiative. But as I said, the Ministry of Culture is systematically preparing for changes to media laws. As for the press media, the print of the media, as I said, it's a matter of a lot of ownership, of finding out who the media belongs to, of which society. However, I am aware of this question, and we will certainly also focus more on printed media, although we are focused on electronic media in the legislative plan. However, thank you for this impulse, I perceive it and take it as an assignment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u53	I thank the Minister for taking this as an assignment. With another task, this time for the Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa will come, who will interpelise on the export of military equipment to Ukraine. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow Members, my interpellation is initiated by the fact that the question whether military material was exported to Ukraine in 2014, when it was done and what kind of military material it was, I sent in writing to the Director of the Ministry of Industry and Trade's licensing board Mgr Zdeněk Richtr before the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Acquisitions of the Ministry of Defence, trade in military material and innovation of the army of the Czech Republic, where the export of military material to Ukraine was ranked as a meeting point in 2014. I have the honour to be chairman of this subcommittee of the Defence Committee, and I feel bound by the fact that I am carrying out or am trying to carry out my work as a Member so as to do the work for which I was elected. Instead of answering three simple questions, I received from Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Ing, as Chairman of the subcommittee, already appointed by the subcommittee. Vladimír Bertl, under whose jurisdiction the licensing administration of the Ministry of Industry and Trade falls, where the appeal to Act No. 38/1994 Coll., on Foreign Trade in Military Materials, as amended, and Act No. 140/1961 Coll., Criminal Law, as amended, has been explained to me very much that, in essence, I am not entitled to the required information. I would like to point out that the said Criminal Code No. 140/1961 Sb. has been replaced by Act No. 42/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, of 8. 1. 2009, which has been effective since 1. 1. 2010. Thus, the reference - or by being relied on for four years as an invalid legal standard, I consider it not entirely legitimate. As a result of this opinion, the director of the licensing administration of the Ministry of Industry and Trade Mgr also refused. Richtr to Members of the aforementioned Sub-Committee on Acquisitions of the Ministry of Commerce to communicate the required information. [[Time warning]] I therefore ask how a Member can learn the information he needs for his work, especially in the scope of these simple questions, when I did not ask who exported it, but the three questions were quite simple. Then I can repeat them eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u55	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u56	Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members. On your question, I would like to point out that the control regime in the field of foreign trade in military material is laid down in Law No. 38/1994 Coll., on Foreign Trade in Military Materials, and Implementing Regulation, Decree No. 210/2012 Coll., on the implementation of certain provisions of this Act. The Act lays down procedures for the authorisation of trade, the conditions for licensing, its use and the overall control of the implementation of trade in military material, including the imposition of penalties for infringements. The management and execution of the related licensing and licensing regime is legally entrusted to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which decides to grant licences on the basis of binding opinions of the authorities concerned. This is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which evaluates applications in terms of foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic, compliance with obligations arising from international agreements for the Czech Republic as well as from membership of the Czech Republic in international organizations. The Ministry of the Interior also comments on requests in terms of public order, security and the protection of the population and, in the case of significant military material, the Ministry of Defence, which gives a binding opinion with regard to security of defence of the Czech Republic. As regards the exports of military equipment to Ukraine alone, last year, i.e. since 2014, it is widely known that the EU Member States agreed to suspend export licences for equipment which could be used for internal repression during the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council on 20 February 2014. Following this agreement of EU Member States, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has requested the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior to evaluate all valid export licences to Ukraine, whether they are not subject to the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council and therefore there is no reason to suspend them. Following examination of those licences in force, it was not found that the export of equipment used for internal repression would be the subject of any of those licences. At the same time, all new requests for export of military material to Ukraine have been assessed in accordance with those conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council. Let me assure you that during the period of validity of the agreement of the Member States to suspend the issue of licences for the export of equipment which could be used for internal repression in Ukraine, the Czech Republic has issued no license for the export of military equipment. This Agreement was repealed by the Member States within the framework of the Special Meeting of the European Council of 16 July 2014 when the Member States agreed to suspend the application of the Agreement of 20 February 2014 on export licences. In accordance with these conclusions, export licences for Ukraine have been issued after this period, all licences being issued on the basis of the consent of all the authorities concerned after considering that such exports are in line with the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic, do not infringe obligations arising from international agreements for the Czech Republic, as well as do not jeopardise public policy and security or the protection of the population. Since the situation in Ukraine and the peace negotiations in Minsk were intensified at the turn of last year and this year, the Czech Republic has decided to re-evaluate all valid licences, whether they continue to comply with the foreign policy and security interests of the Czech Republic. On the basis of this, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, agreed in accordance with the Foreign Trade Act with military material to suspend the use of export licences to Ukraine, for which this was justified by the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic. Mr President, Mr Member, let me assure you in conclusion that the Czech Republic continues to assess any request for export of military material not only to Ukraine, taking into account all its interests, and exports can only be allowed if they are not contrary to any of these interests, particularly foreign policy and security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u57	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u58	It's not even a question, it's just a comment. I didn't question that the Ministry of Industry's procedures are in some way contrary to generally applicable regulations, laws, etc. I'm just concerned that on the question "was military material exported to Ukraine in 2014?" The answer could be yes, no. If so, when was it done? And I wanted to define a kind of military material. That's what two letters were written on, one six-page. If the executive treats the Chamber of Deputies like this, we won't have much time to work. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u59	I thank Mr Chalupa. Next, Mrs Marta Semelová, who will interpel the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman on the matter of Marshmelon, will speak. That's what's bothering us all. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u60	Yes, especially us Prague Pražák. Hello, Minister. I turn to you in a case called. Marshmallow. It is the intention of the investor to build an anthropomorphic modernist building in the immediate vicinity of the Anež monastery from the beginning of the 13th century. The monastery wall is even to be demolished, and the building is literally to be glued to the monastery. The project is in direct conflict with all professional principles of conservation. This is the second intention of the investor. The first was rejected by the binding opinion of the Ministry of Culture of 2010 due to non-compliance with the requirements of the National Heritage Office. However, these requirements are not even met by the investor's new project. The investor is in cooperation with the Prague 1 office bypassed. Against the devastation of the historical centre, around 500 protesters met in Prague 14 days ago, who among others. They asked you to deal with the case personally. In just four days, more than 2,400 citizens signed a petition demanding enforcement of the 2010 Ministry of Culture's requirements. Petenti warns that to be functional in the Czech Republic, circumvention and exclusion of the binding position of the Ministry cannot be excluded from procedural proceedings. So I would like to ask what your position on this case is. Furthermore, if it is true that the requirements of the Ministry of 2010 in the second attempt by the investor have somehow mysteriously disappeared from the file. At the same time, I would like to ask you, as Minister of Culture, to take the initiative for a memorial inspection of the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic, to review the decision or further possible steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u61	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask the Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you, first of all, for this support with regard to the monument zone in Prague. I'm sure it's very important. But I really want to move on the ground of legal standards right now and give a completely neutral factual position that I don't want to project my opinions into. It should be pointed out in advance that the local competent authority, which carries out the delegated powers of the State administration in the area of monument care in the territory of HMP, is the City Council of HMP. There, through Mr President, you are much closer to this office than I am. The history of the location of the new building on the corner of U Milosrdné and Kozí streets in Prague 1 dates back to the 1990s. At the request of the owners of the properties concerned, the National Heritage Institute has repeatedly commented on the problem of the new building, namely the territorial professional workplace in the capital city of Prague. As part of the assessment of the project documentation at the project stage for territorial management, the Department of Monument Care issued a decision to the City Council of HMP in March 1998 after a written statement by which the Department of Monument Care accepted the implementation of one building, but under precisely defined conditions, which was then accepted in comparison to today's different construction. Further expert comments from the City Council's Department of Monument Care for a binding opinion followed, inter alia. stated height quotas, roof properties, windows and plaster character. In 1999 the Department of Monument Care issued a decision on the location of the new building. A valid building permit was issued to the project in 2000. However, the construction was not started. In 2008, the National Heritage Institute, a workplace in the capital city of Prague, received further revised documentation from the owners of the land concerned to assess. Subsequently, the Department of Monument Care of the City Council issued a binding opinion which provided for only one condition in the case of exterior night lighting. The remaining requirements of the SAO were not accepted. Against this binding opinion of the Department of Monument Care of the City Council, the Environmental Studio was appealed to the Ministry of Culture, which found the proposed work to be inadmissible in terms of the interests of conservation care. Praga Progetti e Investment submitted a complaint against this opinion to the Minister of Culture for the implementation of the review procedure. The Minister of Culture did not find the reasons for initiating the review procedure following his examination on the basis of a draft decomp committee. Praga Progetti e Investment further challenged the binding opinion of the Ministry of Culture by an administrative action rejected by the Municipal Court in Prague by a resolution. In August 2012, the Monument Care Department of the City Council received an additional request from the owners of the land concerned to issue a binding opinion on the new building on the corner of U Milosrdné and Kozí streets, according to the territorial management project. This proposal was assessed positively by the Department of Monument Care of the City Council. The Department of Monument Care of the City Council admitted the intention of building a new six-storey house and concluded that the new building does not establish a new height level in the locality. The solution of the new building is completely in the balanced transition of the various size standards of the surrounding construction. The design of the new building is unusual, creative and out of practice, within which new buildings are designed within the Prague Monument Reserve, but it is not a proposal that needs to be rejected or further restricted from the point of view of conservation care. The new building is assessed positively from the point of view of monument care, even with the knowledge that the building is designed in an extremely sensitive location of Prague's conservation reserve at the interface of the pre-asanation building of the Anež district and the rendering area, where small buildings of the Haštal district are in contact with the monastery and the block building of apartment buildings. The Ministry of Culture, as an authority supervisor, has not until now registered any appeal which would be challenged by any of the last-mentioned binding opinions issued by the Department of Monument Care of the City of HMP as the administrative body concerned in the section of conservation care for the management of the building office. [[Attention on time.]] That's probably crucial. The moment we receive it, we will, of course, deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u63	I thank the Minister and ask the Member to complete her question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u64	I'd like to thank you. However, I think the situation is really serious, because once something goes down there, once these changes are made, it's irreversible. This building is really very unusual, and it's like an eye fist out there when I have to say it like that. As far as the Magistrate is concerned, it has already been said. We'll deal with it again on the Magistrate's soil. I'd just like to point out another mistake. The investor wants to build on the land of Prague, which according to the contract for a future contract at a price lower than the usual price. It was not justified, the intention was not published, it did not cover the intention and the land, the investor uses the land in question for the parking lot, it does not pay rent there, again the adjustments were not discussed in any way. So I think it's against the law that it could be putting some possibilities in the hands of the Ministry of Culture in itself. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So I just wanted to fill that in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u65	Thank you, Madame. The Minister still has an interest in supplementing it. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u66	Yes, thank you. Anyway, as I said, the local authority is not the Ministry. Once we receive an appeal, we will certainly deal with this because we have to move within all the legal standards in force. As for - here I allow myself a bit of a personal tone - my approach, so of course the protection of monuments and a monument fund, which is extraordinary, is an absolute priority. But we have to have it, I dare say a foreign word, pouvoir. And at this point, we don't have it. But thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr Marek Ženíšek, who will intersect the present Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on the General Directorate of the Prison Service, will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, you are aware that it has been more than one year since General Dohnal was removed from the post of Director General of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic by the former Minister of Justice Válková. In his view and in the opinion of a number of legal analyses, this has become illegal. For this reason he could not be placed anywhere further, and therefore he has been in a kind of legal vacuum for more than a year, a condition that the laws of the Czech Republic do not know and do not allow. For more than a year, even with the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members, General Dohnal must basically sit at home even though he is still formally referred to as the Director General of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic in official documents. Well, they've been here for over a year according to official documents. Prison services referred to as the General Director of the Prison Service by two people, and only because of the negotiations of the former Minister of Válková, and thus are paid by two general directors. Ondrášek, the current CEO of Ondrášek, made a decision almost a year later, where it is literally written, absurdly, that the Chief Executive Officer of the Prison Service Ondrášek withdraws or withdraws most of Dohnal's salary to the Director General of the Prison Service. In more than a year, the General Directorate of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic had a complete breakdown. Some people were dismissed, some even literally, I would say, destroyed with the whole family, as it happened to former First Deputy Prokeš, and were replaced by various dubious persons without proper education, without the slightest experience of the issue. As an example, I refer to the appeal of the director of the health service department, who is not even a doctor. [[Attention on time.]] That is why I am asking you, Minister, when you will begin to address the situation in the Prison Service. When will the more than one year's legal vacuum of General Dohnal finally be resolved, and what and whose responsibility will it take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u69	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister of Justice for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u70	Mr President, honourable Members, I have begun to address the situation in the Prison Service immediately after my entry into office. It's one of my priorities today. I'm watching the situation very intensively and closely. My deputy Zimmel, who basically doesn't do anything else, is very helpful. And I certainly must turn against the claim that the Directorate-General is completely broken up and does not work at all, which I do not want to say that all the steps taken at the Directorate-General are a happy one. We are quite intensively communicating with today's CEO on these matters, and we are clear on some things. That's for the first part of your question. As to the question of when the situation of General Dohnal will be resolved. I don't think it's good to say that General Dohnal them in some kind of legal vacuum. General Dohnal has been revoked by my predecessor and is questioning the validity of this appeal. This is not a vacuum, it is simply his choice and a completely normal state of law, for which the rule of law also has instruments to solve. That means, we've got remedies, we've got administrative justice. Maybe you know, maybe that's why this interpelation is coming today, that in mid-May there is an order for a hearing at which the administrative court can be expected to comment on my predecessor's further decision to suspend the proceedings as regards the settlement of General Dohnal. I have already begun in the preliminary case that the administrative court would abolish this and order me to decide on the decomposition, so I began to deal very intensively with this material myself. For your understanding, the file file file has several hundred pages. I think I've analyzed some of the questions, made myself clear. For some I am currently doing this, I will consult with experts in the area, because it must be said that this is an extremely complicated issue and clearly unsolved by law. The one that's going on in there. This means whether or not the Minister had the right to dismiss the General in this way. So, as much as I understand the inconvenience of the situation for the general, I must say that what is happening right now is simply a procedure according to a law that I do not block, I do not delay, I have no interest in blocking and delaying. On the contrary, I must say that I am very much looking forward to finally bringing this thing to an end. Whatever happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u71	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u72	Thank you for your answers. I am very pleased and appreciate that you want to deal more intensively with this issue and that you are even preparing some scenarios that can happen. On the other hand, I disagree with you that it is necessary to wait until the decision of the court. Basically, you accept the tactics and strategy of the former leadership, which have just put the Directorate-General of Prison Service in a state, as I said, when it is clear from official documents that we can also read the absurdities of the "Dear Director-General of Prison Service... your Director-General of Prison Service" type.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u73	An additional reply from the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u74	Thank you for the follow-up question, because it shows that I have not made an exact statement on one issue. I have no intention of alibiscitating the court's decision. If the trial hadn't been ordered in the middle of May, I would have somehow considered the matter myself. However, I believe that, at this point in time, it is in the interest of legal certainty that we need so much in this case, simply more sensible to wait until the middle of May. At the same time, I say that even if the court told me that the interruption was justified, I think that I myself will try to get the process back on track as soon as possible and finally decide the matter at my level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u75	Well, I thank the Minister for his answers. Mr. Václav Horáček, who will interpelate the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec in the matter of the Czech Post, will give an 11th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear absent minister, allow me to respond to some of your statements concerning the Czech Post and its future. So, first things first. Franchise. You have told us that in the future you expect about 690 large mails and others will be converted into franchise. I would like to point out that the Partner program you are presenting has been here for several years and that over the years, about 50 municipalities have applied for franchise to work like this. Of course, you're referring to the German model, the Austrian model. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that in both cases at the beginning there was a large subsidy from the state so that it could start working. [[15.50 hours]] The next question - in other states, there is a compensation fund that is just comparing the loss that you are now fighting for, as you say. Why am I telling you this? Because I am very worried that the mayors of cities and municipalities will take it again in the future for one simple reason. When you evaluate that this and this mail will not work, you will contact the mayor of the municipalities, offer them the Partner program and then there are two options. The mayor will say yes or no. If he says yes, he'll have to participate, he'll have to consider in the budget, he'll be flicking the state again, like in many cases. If he says no, you say, "See, your mayor canceled your mail." So it's a trap for municipalities and cities again. Of course it works franchise off, works well, but... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I want to ask why the French model in which third parties can receive state subsidies cannot work here, i.e. both commercial, as well as municipalities and cities. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u77	I thank the honourable Member, he will be given an answer in writing. We are coming to another interview where Mr Michal Kučera will interpel Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš on the VAT payer's inspection reports. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u78	Hello, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, since 2016, you want to introduce a mandatory inventory of all sales and purchases, i.e. even a few screws for a few crowns, with an indication of the business partner and his identification, i.e. called. control reports of VAT payers. It is, in my opinion, a whip on an honest, unnecessary administration, high costs on the part of the state and on the side of entrepreneurs and, in my opinion, with a slim result. For about 300,000 VAT payers, this is an increase in bureaucratic burdens, especially, as I said, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. So I would like to ask you: why are you transferring your inability to collect taxes on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs? They are businessmen and small companies with annual turnover below CZK 10 million, usually not the perpetrators of the so-called. your carousel scams, which you think the novel is meant to aim at. The second question is: what increase do you expect from this measure today?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u79	I thank the honourable Member for the clear questions. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My inability to collect taxes was shown by the fact that I collected 31.5 billion more in 2014 when I took over the Financial Administration, which was privatized by Mr Kalousek and Mr Knížek, and for which criminal charges are filed on suspicion of CZK 96 million. Control reports of VAT payers. Yes, it was introduced in Slovakia in 2013 and for a year and a half they collected EUR 800 million, which is approximately CZK 24 or 25 billion. So we adopted the Institute of Control Reports by law 360/2014, i.e. with effect from 1 January 2016. It is introduced as an effective means of combating tax fraud. Its aim and purpose is to enable the acquisition of information on selected transactions and in conjunction with other data to identify risk associations of persons, chains and carousels. Cobra intervened 14 times as we set it up in May, and it was all carousels. So today the European Union is preparing a new edition of how much VAT has not been paid in the EU. It is EUR 180 billion, which is EUR 40 billion more than the European Union's budget. Against this is the cure, reverse charge, and against this, the Czech Republic is now the leader of this agenda in Brussels. For the first time since we joined the European Union, we have done something and we have organized something. So the control report also prevents the fictitious deduction of VAT, so-called. artificial invoices that are abused in large and small amounts. The control report is primarily based on data in records already kept by payers under the current VAT Act. Further information required in the control report is necessary for its effective functioning, with the fact that an increase in administrative burden has always been very carefully analysed in their choice. Legal persons are required to submit a monthly inspection report, every 25 days after the end of the calendar month. In order to reduce the administrative burden on natural persons, such reports shall be made within the time limit for filing a tax return, either quarterly or monthly, within 25 days of the end of the tax period. The control report shall be submitted exclusively electronically, in the format and structure published by the tax administrator. We understand that it is necessary to provide tax payers with a reasonable period of time to prepare accounting and management systems. For this reason, basic data on control reports will be published on the Financial Administration website shortly, which will be continuously supplemented by other relevant information and answers to questions. Although the inspection report will be submitted exclusively electronically, a model of the control report form, including preliminary information, was prepared for information purposes, which will also be available on the website. The publication will be made in the next week, from 4 May 2015. In the next phase, we assume at the beginning of July 2015, technical descriptions of individual items of electronic form and related XM structure will be available to the public. A limitation of the method of submission of control reports and other VAT forms has been proposed so that they cannot be submitted via data boxes. The proposal was abandoned and the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration cooperate with the business associations and the Ministry of the Interior and look for a variant in which the submission of the data box will be maintained and at the same time the objective of the electronicisation of tax administration will be met to ensure the correct format and structure of the submission of the control report. I would like to say that today the Financial Administration has a software that searches for suspicious transactions and deductions of VAT, and it is 17,000 such cases a year. Of course, in such a case, the Financial Administration is withholding VAT and actually doing a background check, which is bothering companies, and vice versa, when we introduce control reports, these checks will actually fall and the system will actually significantly simplify control and substantially decrease the number of visits to the Financial Administration. So the control report is -- yes, that's all. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u81	Thank you. Mr Kučera is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u82	Thank you. I received a classic answer to a specific question: Kalousek and Carousels. However, I will repeat the question: what increase do you expect from this measure today, i.e. amount. I would also like to say that everyone who is a monthly VAT payer is already providing similar information to the Financial Office. The inspection reports you have introduced, Minister Babiš, are directed in particular against quarterly VAT payers. Only a reliable VAT payer can now become a quarterly VAT payer after three years of business. So, Minister, what makes you think that it is from these reliable VAT payers that you will get a higher collection of value added tax, i.e. two questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u83	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u84	So last week the SAO's audit ended, but of course our media gave a misleading headline that the new measures did not work, but the audit concerned 2011 and 2013, so I do not know who the Minister of Finance was at the time. And the inspection found that the hole is 108 billion a year, and that is exactly the number that the European Union identifies. That is EUR 3.2 billion, and that is essentially 22 percent of VAT unpaid. [[16.00 hours]] So I don't know how much of this is gonna go down, but somebody's not paying us VAT, and a check report is one way to fight these frauds. And the second is essentially to convince the EU to give us the competence to make our own decisions about so-called. Reverse charge. If we can convince the EU about reverse charge, and I repeat that we, the Czech Republic, first came up with it and other finance ministers are talking about structural reforms and Junckerův's package, and I am still talking about reverse charge. Reverse charge is a last-served transfer of tax liability, and if the EU gives us that competence, then we can introduce more commodities into this system and that will help companies, because they will not wait so long for deductions. So how much of this are we gonna pick, how are we gonna do? I'm just saying that the hole according to the SAO is 108 billion, according to the EU 3.2 billion. EUR. And the fact is, the Cobra, which held 2 billion, intervened 14 or 15 times, and those are the carousels you keep laughing at, but there's the hole. So we will do our best to pick it out, but, of course, it also depends on the factors in which the EU stands up to it. The average age of such a fraudulent carousel company is 23 days and according to the EU the quick mechanism is six months. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u85	Thank you, Minister. Mr Karel Rais, who will interpel the so far absent Minister of Education Marcel Chládek, will give the thirteenth interview on the comments of the Government of the Czech Republic on the amendment to the Higher Law. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the one hand, I am pleased that there is a rather broad debate on the amendment to the Higher Law, on the other hand, this discussion requires as much information as possible, and in some cases I lack that information. 30 March was the meeting of the government of the Czech Republic. There, the Government approved a bill amending Law No. 111, an amendment to the Higher Law, and she made a number of comments. Of course, we have discussed some of the comments in advance, but some are probably entirely new, and my problem is that I do not have these comments or, I think, Members do not have them. So I would like to ask you to give us exactly what comments the government had on the amendment, because in EEKLEP there is only a proposal for an amendment and there is a variety of information about the need to exclude from the original proposal the possibility of setting up a public research institution by universities, which is a pretty substantial intervention in the law or in the proposal. So thank you for sending me your comments, because you're not here right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u87	Yes, the Minister is not here right now, so the answer will be sent to you in writing. And now we're going to continue with our next interview. Mr František Laudát will intersect the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on the issue of the District Court for Prague 5. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm turning to Minister Pelikán. We're communicating on this thing. The point is that about two years ago or when the case began to move the District Court of Prague 5 from the area of the Regional Court, it is the famous palace in Kinsky Square. The point is, in the era of Brigadier Rusnok, as I heard, Mrs. Benešová wrote a statement as Minister of Justice to the District Court. Since then, the Minister of Justice has not been able to find adequate premises, wherein various economically frightening solutions or uneconomically scary solutions began to arise. And now the last one is the option, which is already going to the Minister, that the court will move to several places. I just want to point out that a few years ago, a similar analysis took place in Prague 6 and thanks to the fact that the court was divided into several places, so maybe you know yourself if you have a company with multiple locations or an institution research, medical, etc. that then no one is anywhere and nothing works, everyone is on the move. In Prague 6 there was allegedly a radical decline in the performance of the court, fell in the evaluation to one of the worst places. And now the same is likely to happen with the District Court of Prague 5, which enjoys quite a solid reputation. One of the parts he's supposed to move to is a state-owned house on Leger Street. Who knows Prague's reality, it is perhaps one of the worst places to function due to the temporary location of the North-South Magistral. In addition, I believe that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u89	Ambassador, I'm sorry, your time is up. If you ask a question that might be answered?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u90	Okay. I ask the Minister if he really insists on this solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u91	I thank you for your kindness and ask Minister Robert Pelikán to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u92	Mr President, honourable Members, I have come to this point at some stage. The phase was that things had already been done and unchangeable, that the district court had to move out of one building from the regional courthouse and that this would happen in the months horizon and that it had to be dealt with. And now, in front of me, as a solution, we offered to rent a building that wasn't particularly suitable for it, which we would reconstruct, although, of course, the landlord, when the court wasn't there again, would have knocked it down again, because somehow the courts have very specific disposition requirements. It was just supposed to cost about $90 million in total. And the fact that we have a free courthouse, vacant, on Prague 6 on Leger Street is against that. So I think that if I have to manage public funds in any way, I simply have no choice. It's hard to explain to anyone why I stuffed 90 million crowns into a private landlord instead of putting the court, logically, into that vacant building. The fact that this is a solution that is unpleasant, because really Leger Street isn't exactly the perfect place for nothing and nobody, that's true. On the other hand, I looked at the house in detail. I don't know if you do, too. It's not that bad. I understand that no one wants to come from the beautiful environment of Kinsky Square with an amazing inner garden and Petřín just around the corner and that compared to Legerův's is directly drastic, but otherwise it's a nice building that's not missing anything, we'll just paint there, and actually the only disadvantage is street traffic and that when it comes to the place where it is on Legerovka, it's a five-minute walk from the subway. At the same time, I am also aware that the division of the court will lead to certain organisational complications. It will not be so terrible, because the division is in this case, it managed to do it after essentially separate sections, that means it will be especially a criminal agenda and a civilian agenda, they simply have nothing to do with each other, and so unfortunately it will have to be separately, I am sorry, the agenda execution, but again it is an agenda that is independent, although there we will probably have to move more often files from the civilian agenda. At the same time, I would like to stress that this is a transitional solution because, overall, I am very unhappy with the situation of dislocation of the courts in Prague. [[16.10 hours]] What started with the Balls is something that needs to be continued. We have to get the courts into some new modern building, because today is just an incredible waste. These spaces are inconvenient, uncomfortable and extremely expensive, because they are in the center, they are mostly corridors and from them lead other corridors into even smaller corridors. Just the use of the Kinsky Palace, the usable floor area is a little over 30 percent. Everything else we heat up for nothing. It's the hallways. So we're just dealing with it, we're looking for a location right now, right now I've had President Švehlová here, for some new judicial palace to settle this definitively. This is a transitional solution, and I consider it the least evil of all possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u93	I thank you and ask if there will be an additional question. Mr Laudát is preparing for it. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u94	Thank you. In that first part, I would agree. After all, my colleague Kučera here intersected your predecessor with the fact that giving a private company, when the state owns another property, 90 million, is an economic waste. He got the answer that it was okay. As far as the other person is concerned, I think that the cheapest thing to do today would be simply to compare the relationships between them in a direct way, to let it go, and so if you want to build a judicial palace quickly, then why not? But just move it, when they've settled up there, so I think they might even up there. In my opinion, I don't know if you've had it done then, and that's my question, some analysis of real needs and just whether they would fit in there in the current state, and let it go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u95	Thank you. The Minister will still respond to this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u96	When I started dealing with it, I did a nice Saturday work there, with my economic assistant, and Dr. Švehlová and I went through the buildings from top to bottom. In fact, I also think they might have been able to endure it for a while, but I just came to a situation where I couldn't take it back. And again, I have to stand up for the county court that the capacity was overcrowded, that's for sure. So, as I'm saying, it's a solution to a situation that was already here at some point. What stage she was at, that goes to Mrs. Former Minister Benešová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u97	Thank you. Before we continue to interpel, I will read the apologies that arrived: today, from 16 o'clock for business reasons, Minister Marian Jurečka, today between 15.30 and 23 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Herbert Pavera, from 14.30 o'clock for business reasons, Mr Jiří Dalecký, from 13.30 to 24.00 for work reasons Anna Putnová, from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for personal reasons Vít Kaňkovský, from 15.00 for family reasons Mr Lubomír Toufar, from 14.30 to the rest of the sitting day, Mr Martin Plíšek, from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons Mr Rostislav Vyzula, from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for working reasons of Mrs Helena Válková, further after 14.00 for health reasons, Mr Jiří Petrů and from 14.30 to 16.30 Ťok And so we will now proceed to another interpellation, which Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has as the fifteenth in turn and intersects Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u98	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I have come to the impression from your public appearance that we have a similar view of the existence of state funds, whether it be a state fund for housing development, environment, transport infrastructure. Personally, I think it would be better if the funds flowed directly through the state budget and we did not have those funds. But I'm asking your opinion on the proposal of the Minister of Health, who, under the anti-smoking law, even though the law is called otherwise, but I think we understand each other, proposes the creation of a new state fund. I myself have tried that abolishing the existing fund is very politically challenging. When I just wanted to start a debate about the abolition of the transport infrastructure fund, then the opposition, today your coalition partner, stood on the barricade and said, no way. I think it's better not to set up any new funds. I ask you as Minister of Finance, because the proposal of the Minister of Health assumes - I have to read it, because the name of the fund - also the name: State Fund for Integrated Drug Policy. They want to have at least half a billion a year there, and they even suggest that they will be allocated directly from the law of 1% of excise taxes and 1% of lottery revenue. Personally, I consider it a bad idea and a bad idea. It seems to me that at the Office of the Government, someone wants to create a bear if not a bear, at least a teddy bear. Fortunately, we no longer have a bear on the budget committee, so at least we have a teddy bear for officials at the Office of the Government to grant it. I would be interested in your opinion on the possibility of creating this new state fund as Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u99	I thank you and ask the Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u100	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad we have parties in the House who want to save money. So the proposal to set up the State Fund for Integrated Drug Policy is part of a completely new law on public health protection, which the Ministry of Health is the promoter of. The proposed fund should be a legal entity under the authority of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic. The proposal goes to the government with the contradictions of the Ministry of Finance that have not been settled. They are currently discussing the draft law of the Commission of the Legislative Council of the Government. The Ministry of Finance fundamentally disagrees with the proposal to create a state fund, especially because the proposal does not comply with the provisions of Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules, and its procedures. The bill does not respect Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations. Another reason why we reject the proposal to create a state fund is that the funds of the proposed fund are to be secured from the share of excise duty paid of 1%, 1% for excise duty on alcohol, beer, wine and intermediate products and tobacco products. In principle, the Ministry of Finance does not agree that those parts of the tax return should be the income of that state fund, since in this case it is the actual purpose of the tax. The financial collateral of the fund would create a one-off and then permanent impact on the state budget of approximately CZK 700 million per year. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance points out that the method of anchoring the state fund's tax revenue does not correspond with the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes. The Ministry of Finance welcomes the efforts to concentrate on health protection issues against addictive substances under one gesture and the related centralisation of funds for this agenda. However, it fundamentally does not agree that this plan should be implemented through the creation of a new state fund. This is a completely non-systemic solution. On the contrary, there is currently a tendency to dampen the activities of state funds and their transformation. Drug policy should be provided by the central authorities of the state administration and by state budget funds. Assigned funds for the implementation of drug policy shall be provided by a binding indicator under the relevant budget chapter. In the approved budget for 2015, the Government Office has budgeted funds of CZK 95 million and the Ministry of Health of CZK 16 million in a binding indicator of the drug policy programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u101	Thank you. Mr Stanjura will have an additional question, so please ask.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u102	Thank you for your answer. I say for myself and for my colleagues that we agree with the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. And my last question is simple. I know it's a contradiction so far, so if, Minister, you insist on a contradiction and don't let it come to the House, including the proposal to set up a fund. That we know for ourselves, now I will say this politically, how hard the Government's bill is changing in the Chamber of Deputies, and much better is the idea of setting up a new non-systemic fund, and we have the same opinion, putting it away with the government and sending it to the Chamber of Deputies without this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u103	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister will respond? He's going to answer. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u104	No, I'm sure we had a debate about health today, so I don't want to go back to that. So I think, on the contrary, that we are giving CZK 95 million on drug policy, and I am not quite sure that there are various lectures and various participations in conferences etc., so maybe it would still be necessary to see if these funds are used purposefully and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u105	Thank you. I will now request an interview by Mrs Jitka Chalánková, who is intersecting the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I was informed of the alarming financial situation of the House of Calvary in Jaroměřice. It is an area that is very poor, and this House of Calvary is set up here in an area that does not provide any such service far and wide within a radius of 20 km. This home is duly registered by the Regional Authority of the Pardubice Region, I have this registration in front of me, and although it says in the description of this locality that this Moravian Nebula is very weakened, just as far as the social service provided here is concerned, yet this House in Calvary has not been introduced into the network, yes, so I am stating, and thanks to this, it is also not entitled to grant subsidies for the provision of social services. Nevertheless, I wanted to introduce you to this situation because this home is private, duly registered and has users from several counties. I have an exact layer here, from which cities and from which districts. The Region has made a condition that it will grant the subsidy only on condition, i.e. entitlement, if the municipalities undertake to provide 2 per cent of the financial amounts provided to these municipalities for clients. I was also introduced to the client composition. They accept users from the age of 50. There were also three citizens who were thrown out on the street from that horrible hostel in Přerov. Yet they were accepted in a terrible state. I wanted to ask you, Madam Secretary, although I know that this home is not included in the medium-term plan, if you could focus on this really exclusive location, very weakened economically, to see if negotiations between the three regions on whose interface the home is located and try to bring these regions to cooperation could also arise. [[I'm sorry, Mrs...]] This also relates to the way in which the funds were transferred from the State to the region for the grant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u107	Thank you. I'll ask the secretary to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u108	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, here I repeat, of course, what the honourable Member has already said is on the verge of setting up a network of social services, which the organisation will include in it and which it will not. Of course, the fact that someone as a private provider registers a social service does not mean that he has an automatic right to be financed from public budgets. However, just to clarify the organization, it is therefore a limited liability company Home in Calvary, which has registered two social services. One day the care service has been registered since 2010. It received subsidies - before I don't know - in 2013, it allegedly didn't even ask in 2014 and again in 2015, i.e. for this year, it was supported by a region of CZK 211 thousand. As for the other social service, the senior home, it's really a new service. It was registered only in June 2014, so it is really new. So far, I say that this service is not in line with the Pardubice Region's action plan, and I can hardly influence that. It's really up to the provider's agreement with the county. However, I would like to point out that there is a doubt on the quality of care provided based on field information, which we will check for inspections of social services, which will certainly work. We'll see what's confirmed or not confirmed. However, I repeat, this is more of an interpellation of someone from Pardubice County.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u109	Thank you. The honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u110	I'm sure I'll just fill in the secretary. I would simply like to point out once again that the region - although I agree with you that this facility is not on the network, but on the other hand we read that this area is indeed very weakened in providing social services, whether it would be possible to focus on both providers and events. to initiate negotiations between the three regions that may not cooperate but may, and also because I would ask that we meet as much as possible the level playing field for social service providers with regard to subsidies. And the second thing, to focus again on the way the money was transferred to the edge to really get to a level playing field. It's on the edge how they split the subsidies, but look again at the weakened area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u111	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u112	I'll just add that we've been informed that the area is supposedly well connected by field social services. Otherwise, I would repeat that the home is not really there for a year, so I would quite understand that the region is waiting, because the provider does not really know what it looks like, and that we really have experience that over the last few years many private organizations have started setting up homes for seniors because they assume that there is an easy profit, and then these organizations come to us or even to the regions and demand funding from public budgets. I understand there's some mistrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u113	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček has another interview. Interpels the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, colleagues who have yet to endure. In view of most Czech public media, it could be concluded that almost nothing is happening in Ukraine in recent days. Therefore, if you are no longer able as a government to ensure that Czech Television gives objective information to citizens, I will ask you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for this information myself and I would ask for a communication of the current situation in Ukraine. If you're able to answer me, I'm guessing the following questions: Why are about 300 U.S. paratroopers present in Ukraine and do you agree with their presence? Who are now fighting against in the southeast of Ukraine? Is it really the Ukrainian army against the paramilitary and Kiev uncontrolled sections of the Right Sector? Is it true that thousands of people in Kiev and other major cities are demonstrating against the government and the president, including the fact that the True Sector may be about to overthrow current leadership? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u115	Thank you for your interpellation. The Minister is ready to answer you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u116	Thank you. I would just like to point out that the government does not have the opportunity to organise Czech TV or media in this country at all, to communicate something according to our expectations. It doesn't apply to the private media at all. Of course, there's no way to imagine it. In the case of Czech Television or public media, I can also assure that there is no instruction about these media, how and what it should inform about. These media are, as you know, relatively independent and controlled according to the law of the board - the television board, the radio broadcasting board. And the way we choose a representative for these councils, I don't want to describe it here. I draw attention to the fact that my ability to influence broadcasting is absolutely minimal, perhaps similar to any other Member. If something extraordinary ever happens, where I feel like there's something inaccurate, maybe I'll tell it somewhere at the editor's level, but it hasn't happened for a long time, not because I may not find anything problematic there, but especially because I don't have time to follow it so systematically. I'm sorry. [[16.30 hours]] If I should inform about the current situation in Ukraine, I am mainly based on the reports I receive, among others. quite crucial are the reports provided by the OSCE Monitoring Committee. And I don't think there's anything going on in Ukraine, but I'll take the liberty of taking one such trial. According to the information I have received from political leaders, if there is a more fundamental violation of the ceasefire in Ukraine, it will only be after 9 May. It is believed that by the time the 70th anniversary is celebrated, it will be more or less similar to what it is now. That's unofficially something that I don't think anyone can confirm, but you'll be able to check if this prognosis is true. Despite this, however, it is not like nothing is happening in Ukraine. The latest report from the OSCE I have says that the security situation is not good and for other ceasefires, e.g. Around Donetsk Airport, it's gotten really bad. The OSCE mission has seen a sharp increase in the number of violations of ceasefires and the use of heavy technology, especially heavy artillery and mortars calibre 120 mm near the Donetsk airport and near the village of Avdievka. The mission observed the situation around Syrokyn, registered the use of mortars and also light weapons in the vicinity of Syrokyn and also Berďanska. She also visited a number of villages. In the Donetsk region, the mission registered a number of techniques, mainly T64 tanks near the line of contact. The problem has once again become a restriction on the movement of the members of this mission and an uncertain security situation. On 27 April, the OSCE announced that Syrokyn, Mariupol, has had the hardest fights since before the conclusion of the February Minsk agreements, with the situation deteriorating. Observers have detected the presence and movements of heavy weapons in the territory from which they were to be withdrawn, especially on the side of the self-appointed Donetsk Republic. The free movement and exercise of the mandate shall also be restricted by both parties. This means that restrictions are being imposed both by representatives of the Ukrainian army and by limiting the movement of observers of the OSCE officials e.g. The Republic of Donetsk or the Republic of Luhan, which, of course, reduces the possibility of giving an exhaustive picture of what is happening there today. However, a certain area - we have regular information and a picture of how the situation is developing, I think we have relatively precise. I dealt with the coincidence that the last time I was in Kiev, I dealt with the issue of possible protest movements against the government that I'm being questioned about here. I can say that I was talking to a lot of people there, not just in parliament, but I tried to talk to people outside of politics. My impression was that, at this point, not only is there not some mass act against the government that thousands of people would protest there, but even in Kiev there is quite a strong view that I have heard repeatedly that everyone is aware of how difficult the situation of the country is, and that virtually any demonstrations and similar speeches undermine Ukraine's position in a situation where the country needs to be held together. I have the impression that support for, for example, the current President Porošenko is quite high in society. At least I don't have 100% research and data, but from what I've seen, I've heard from the information I have at my disposal, I think the support is wide. There may be some people here from the Czech Republic -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u117	Minister, I'm afraid your time is up. You'll get space in the second part. I shall ask the Member for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you didn't answer my first question. There are about 300 U.S. paratroopers present in Ukraine. I asked if you agree with this, with their presence, and I also asked what you know about the fact that the regular Ukrainian army is currently fighting against the Right Sector, which is out of control.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u119	Thank you. I'm going to ask you for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u120	I don't have any information on this, so I can't quite say yes to that - disagree. But I can assure you that I will still make a question about our representation, and I will try to see if there have been any acts against or conflict between the military and the Right Sector in the last few hours today. On the contrary, I witnessed a certain agreement between volunteer groups and battalions and the Ukrainian army, and that everyone accepted that they would be under one command. I'm convinced, and that was the last piece of information I had that all the weapons forces under one command were unified, which wasn't true a few months ago, and this is a new thing. This was also a request from the European Union and the Member States, because, of course, we have constantly stressed that one of the fundamental things, and the reforms that we have requested, was also a reform of the armed forces, and we considered it unacceptable for them to exist in a country that wants to be democratically managed, some military forces that are outside the control of the Ministry of Defence and the proper representatives of the military. The step I was talking about was just the reaction to that. I don't have any information about the riots you're talking about, I'm gonna see if anything happened in the last few hours, because I didn't know you were gonna ask, and I'm gonna answer that in person.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u121	Thank you. We shall now proceed to another interpellation by Mrs Markéta Adamová. Interpels Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u122	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in recent weeks I have attended elementary schools that are trying to be inclusive, virtually. Directors and educational corps and other staff are trying to do so. I try to use the word deliberately, because despite all the efforts and efforts that schools and their representatives spend on implementing inclusive education, the current state is far from near ideal. The obstacle is more, but the main one that has been repeatedly mentioned in all schools visited is the lack of funding for support measures for pupils. In the Chamber of Deputies, we discussed an amendment to the school law for almost six months. By approving the amendment, however, it is far from guaranteed that measures will be implemented to help all children who need it. After interviews with school representatives and other experts, I dare say that without the funds that will be specifically spent on implementing the measures taken for pupils with special educational needs, our efforts to change legislation will be wasted. I wanted to ask the Minister of Education directly, but given his absence, I will allow myself to ask you. I wonder if the Minister of Education Marcel Chládek is discussing an increase in the budget for his department in order to support precisely amended measures and financially. How does your ministry feel about increasing the budget for this area? Mr Vice-President of the Government, I would like to invite you to submit a detailed financing plan, which will be in line with the newly approved changes, needs of schools and advisory facilities, no later than the beginning of the school year 2015-2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u123	Thank you and I'll ask the Vice Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u124	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, it's a shame the Minister isn't here. Every minister is trying to raise his chapter, so Mr. Chládek is trying too. We will, of course, negotiate on the budget and, in essence, the Ministry of Education has stated in our negotiations that it cannot estimate the impact and assumes that all the necessary expenditure can be secured by adjusting the structure of existing subsidies granted to regional education. Following the discussion of the amendment to the Education Act in the Chamber of Deputies, the Ministry of Education applied a request for a special-purpose increase in the budget of the chapter for 2016 by 360 million, with a need for an increase of 960 million for 2017. The different amounts of financial volumes correspond to the proposed effectiveness of the amendment to the Education Act from 1 September 2016. Whether the Ministry of Education will not be able to secure requirements for pupils with special educational needs under the chapter depends largely on the setting of implementing legislation that is now being prepared. We had our first round on the budget yesterday, and in May we will discuss individual chapters, and this will be the subject of our negotiations with Minister Chládek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u125	Thank you. I ask whether the Member - does not want to ask an additional question. Thank you. In that case, we will move on and ask Mrs. Věra Kovářová to present her interpelation to Mr. Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u126	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, there are a number of ambitious eGovernment objectives in the government's programming declaration. At my request at the February meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, whether the Ministry of the Interior has sufficient personnel facilities to achieve them, Mr Strouhal replied that there are currently ten posts missing, however, that the relevant request for the Ministry of Finance has already been made. I consider the absence of ten functions if not paralyzing, so a very serious obstacle to the performance of the Ministry of Interior's tasks in this important area. I would like to ask how long this situation lasts and whether it puts any of the government's objectives behind it. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u127	Thank you. In the absence of the Minister, you will receive a written reply. I will now ask Mr Petr Kudela for his intervention, which is directed at the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u128	Dear absent Minister of Health, the future of our society lies in our children and in their preparation for taking over our role. We must not only educate and educate children, but also cultivate them. Certainly, we will not speak his language with the child, but the language of an adult person only in words that he will understand. Why am I talking about this at your address? He got into my hands Diář 2015 issued by the State Institute of Health, which according to its description is on the back of health material issued with financial support from the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic. This diary was distributed to pupils of the 5th grade. The manual begins peacefully. Holiday dates, important phone numbers, principles of healthy lifestyle, movement, healthy nutrition, through the use of sweets to clean teeth, overall hygiene, harmful smoking and the dangers of drugs up to - quote - what I like guys like, like girls, menstruation, period, period, menzes, scribbler, masturbation, fingering. Please, children in fifth grade! To inform schoolchildren about the construction of the human body and about its physiology and reproduction is quite appropriate, but it needs to be done in a cultivated form. The form chosen in the diary must seem tacky and completely inappropriate to anyone not only for family - oriented parents who have drawn attention to this brochure. It should be noted that disrespectful topics of this type can cause trauma in children. Each child's personality needs to be understood individually. Isn't it better to leave sensitive reproductive things in family education, natural development, and serious education than disgusting manuals?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u129	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but given your time, I'm going to ask you to ask the question you want to be answered because you're already over the time limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u130	That was her. Isn't it better to leave sensitive things to family, education and education than disgusting manuals? But then some wouldn't have a well-paid job and couldn't spend state money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u131	Thank you. Let's move on, then. Another interviewer is Mr. Michal Kučera, who intersects Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u132	Thank you for the floor. We, Minister, will talk about financial matters. Don't worry. Dear Minister, from 1. 1. 2015 was to start a joint collection of income tax, social insurance and health insurance, i.e. so-called. a single collection point. This would bring significant savings of funds on the part of the state and on the part of entrepreneurs. The State could significantly reduce social security management staff and health insurance companies. Entrepreneurs would then save on the administrative costs of sales, which, as you know, would increase labor productivity in the Czech economy. Your decision, Minister Babiš, has stopped the launch of a single collection point, which means continuing high costs on the part of the state and high administrative burdens on the part of businessmen and entrepreneurs, and last but not least your inability to collect taxes. I have the following simple questions for you, Minister Babiš. First: When will the single collection point work? Secondly, how much does the state budget cost each year because the single collection point doesn't work in 2015? Third: Who is responsible for launching the single collection point? And the deadline should be when it's gonna start.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u133	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask the Vice Prime Minister to respond to your interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u134	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, a single collection point, we call it Kalouskův's trap. That's his virtual reality. It is as if I have now proposed a law that, as of 1 January 2018, we will abolish all taxes and increase pensions by a thousand percent. I guess that's the same thing. I think I'd get a lot of votes from the voters. That's what the former finance minister left us and what we've been worried about, that's actually a whole year. Yes, in principle, it's a fine, unified collection point. I'd like to, too. But someone would have to make that decision on their own, and someone would have to write what it would mean for our economy. How many unemployed, what impact. Because what you proposed, and what we actually had to cancel, was actually a reduction in tax revenue collection by 18 billion. So the project prepared by the last government was actually useless from the point of view of practical implementation. The technical possibilities of the social security management system, health insurance companies do not allow the collection of contributions through the tax administrator at present. So the basic points that were, in fact, the change in the income tax rate for employees from 15 to 19, the abolition of the supergross wage and also the CFI's change in the method of calculating the assessment base for insurance should no longer apply 50 per cent of the value of the difference in income and expenditure for determining it, but the full 100% amount, which was compensated by a reduction in the premium rate. It's also such an interesting product, the super gross wage. At first you said it was going to be 15 percent, it was going to be actually a uniform tax, and then it wasn't enough, so we made the basis 134, so we're still pretending that we have 15 percent of 134, but actually it's 20.1. In principle, it is certainly a good idea, but I fear that within coalition governments, where the atmosphere of cost reduction is not set, it is unrealistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u135	I thank you and ask whether the Member will ask an additional question. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u136	Thank you for your reply to Minister Babiš. As I expected, I received a slightly expressive, emotional expression with almost zero information value. However, the last information was given in the same sentence, and maybe one sentence was enough. This means, as I understand it well, you do not count on the introduction of a single collection point. This means you are not interested in making the administration more efficient, you are not interested in eliminating the administrative burden for entrepreneurs. That's what you said, if I understood your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u137	Thank you. The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u138	I see that Mr Kalousek actually has a kind of demagogic heirloom. I didn't say anything like that. All I'm saying is that we're fixing what you left behind, and I don't think I'm doing enough. Just put the Financial Administration in order that no one has ever driven and served on any of the interests of the former finance minister with his friend, the former financial chief. So we're fixing it. We are focusing on tax collection, and of course this is interesting, but it is not real from today's point of view. So we like it, but we have some limits, and we have some coalition partners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u139	Thank you. We will continue and the next interviewer is Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, who intersects the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u140	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister absent, the lack of children's doctors and nurses in the Czech Republic is beginning to manifest itself. The average age of practitioners for children and adolescents is 57 years. 920 children's doctors over the age of 60 work in hospitals and outpatient practices. It follows that after 2020, there will be 600 pediatricians missing in the Republic, i.e. children's doctors and practitioners for children and adolescents. In addition, the lack of child specialists - intensivists, nephrologists, neurologists, psychiatry and other expertise deepens. With this, waiting times are growing unbearably for professional examination by these specialists. The cause is certainly more, but one of them is the unwillingness of hospitals to receive young children's doctors, graduates of medical faculties, after graduating from specialized workplaces. Hospitals follow strictly economic criteria and the preparation of new doctors is a financial burden for them. This also has to do with the crappy remuneration of incoming doctors-graduates, in many cases also the payment requirements for enabling practice. Every year 300 to 500 graduates of medical faculties leave abroad, where they have completed specialization training in a significantly better position than in the Czech Republic. The current DRG system puts pediatricians at a disadvantage within hospitals, especially specialised workplaces and centres. The system does not take into account the intensity of care according to the patient's age, while pediatrics needs more staff and greater facilities for hospitalized children, their escorts. The current system of postgraduate doctor education is complicated, uncoordinated, inconsistent and inconspicuous. There is no clear assignment from the state, i.e. from the Ministry of Health, which is responsible for postgraduate education in health care. The prepared amendment to the Act on the Education of Physicians implies the abolition of the field of practical physician for children and adolescents. Dear Minister, do you expect that if the law is passed in its current form, it will ensure the resolution of the lack of practical physicians for children and adolescents as well as hospital pediatricians, i.e. the retesting of at least 900 children's physicians by 2020? What will you do to ensure sufficient children's sisters? Do you not consider extending the number of residences, simplifying the agenda related to these places and at the same time strengthening the role of the Institute of Postgraduate Doctors Education in the Education System? What other measures do you prepare to ensure quality and available childcare in the Czech Republic after 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u141	I thank you and ask Mr Zdeněk Ondráček with an interview with the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, I am keen to learn information that is happening abroad, because foreign policy also affects us. So, as I mentioned in the previous interview that public media may have purposely, because they just can't, they don't inform on what's going on in the world, so I'd like to hear from you, Minister, now publicly what's happening to you in the United States. I am referring to thousands of demonstrating people in Baltimore, New York, Washington, Boston and other American cities. And if you just tell me here that they're demonstrating against police violence... [[Minister Zaorálek has a note off the microphone.]] Minister, I want you to hear what I'm asking you, and you haven't answered anything else. So if you answer me that they're only demonstrating against police violence, I'll ask you another question. I ask you: Can you tell me what is currently the economic and social situation of ordinary citizens of the United States? And is it true that millions of people live on food doses? And if so, how many millions of U.S. citizens are involved? Simple question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u143	Thank you. The Minister seems ready to answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u144	Thank you. I probably won't answer exactly, but the problem is quite serious, and the question on Baltimore is quite interesting. I'm just gonna say, for the record, that the demonstrations have actually been going on for a long time, a few days, a rather severe riot. They escalated after the death of Negro young man Freddy Gray, who died on April 19 on the consequences of a spinal injury suffered following police intervention during transport, where it's not entirely clear, it's being investigated. And it's quite traditional that killing a black man by the police is quite regular, the last time you remember in Ferguson, it's quite recently, it has actually caused quite a lot of riots that have actually been going on since August 2014 in Ferguson. Baltimore's in something other than Ferguson. This is a city that is really on how about who you were dealing with it, so you have also discovered that it is quite a complex place where there is 60 percent of the African-American population and quite a bad social situation, a very high number of unemployed. So, of course, the fact that the protests broke out there has far deeper reasons, and rather the event, the killing of a 19-year-old Negro young man was more like the catalyst that set the torch on fire. And it wasn't just Baltimore. There it occurred, both the demonstrations developed there, so it had to be called the National Guard, declared a state of emergency or a state of emergency and a curfew was declared, arrested by about 35 people. There were also a number of wounded in the crackdowns, five thousand police officers from the surrounding regions were called up, and dozens of people were injured, including police officers. And I don't get it, it spilled into other places, I don't just mean the riots, but definitely the demonstrations, because a number of American cities began to demonstrate, and thousands of people there were demonstrating solidarity with the protests in Baltimore, and demonstrations were taking place in New York, Washington, Boston, Minneapolis, Seattle, but even there were often quite dramatic forms of demonstrations, so maybe in New York, 60 people were arrested during the demonstration. So it's a really serious event, it's not a marginary. And I disagree with those who say that it always happens this way from time to time in America and that it's a regular thing that always happens. I think that this is more serious, even where you were going to ask questions about the level of social equality in the United States. I consider them quite justified, here the questions, because I think what happened in Baltimore, like what happened in Ferguson, is an expression of the much deeper problems of the current United States. And it's not something that's easily passed. If it was just an episode, the President of the United States and a whole bunch of other representatives wouldn't be doing it. When you look at their performances, they really also point out that there are more serious problems. And they're pretty deep, I think, even if I had more time, I don't think I would have given a solid enough message to do that, because it's probably an understanding of the stage of development at which the United States is in, and the relatively complex problem of coexistence with the African-American group, the coexistence of different ethnicities with the, let's say, population of whites. I think this is a problem that is far from the end, its solution is not simple and it is probably also a matter of quite a deep public debate that has actually been happening in the United States since the Ferguson riot and which will continue. And, of course, this is closely linked to social problems, the issues of inequality, the issues of social exclusion, which affect large parts of the population. Baltimore, it's more like a place where the problems are bought in record, that it's a really painful place in itself, and that's why it's probably not by accident either. I think it is a problem that we in Europe can understand. It is simply that, in connection with the last major economic and financial crisis, social inequality has really begun to increase in society. I think America has gone through a similar development, and it is about the extent to which the democratic structures of society are able to respond to this, and the feeling that a number of people remain excluded is being changed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u145	Your time, Minister, I'm sorry. It seems that the Member will have an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u146	Thank you. Of course, you cleverly avoided the question of how many millions of people are on food doses, but I think maybe you don't know or you'll find out for me in the future. But we did pretty well with the inequalities. I think sometime around 24 or 22. 4. I recorded in our media the comments of former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albrightová, who taught us about the need for respect for human rights in Romani ethnicity. Maybe you read the article. Would it not be appropriate, therefore, to write a letter from your position as Secretary of State to the President of the United States of America or at least give an official statement that, as the Czech Republic, we are concerned about respect for human rights in the black population of the United States? Why not? Try it. Will you find the courage to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u147	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u148	I confess that I see no reason to write a letter of this type to the President of the United States, because I am still convinced that even in his performance he feels that he is aware of the problems and does not move away from them at all. And not just now. Even in his speech at the UN General Assembly, the US President said that America is a country that has a whole range of serious social problems, that you can find in that speech, and that he is not hiding at all that he is not putting himself in the role of someone who wants to lecture other countries and that he realizes... It was then in September last year, and it was also in connection with some events that I don't remember now. And he said yes, we have big problems in America, and it's a huge challenge for the government to deal with them. So I certainly don't think he'd need an American president to point out the problems he's having. Because I see that this President and his administration are showing quite a strong sensitivity to what is happening in America in terms of social inequality as well as in the area of these unrest, and they respond quite carefully with great effort to understand it. At the same time, it can be said that they also stimulate public debate. I could even say that, even in the current US administration policy, there are a number of steps that are trying to address the problem of inequality in America. Even this American president, as an Afroameričan-American, I think, is even being handled to understand these problems perhaps better than others. On the other hand, I would like to say for this government and for the State Department that when we talk about human rights today, we have said that we are trying to extend the concept of human rights to social and economic rights, too, and we are talking about it as something that we are doing on the subject in Geneva and wherever we can do so. So it's not like we don't know about this topic. But I'm saying, I don't think I should be writing a letter to President Obam about this. He seems to know a lot about these things and respond to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u149	Thank you. Let's move on. Here are two of Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelations. The first one goes to the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u150	Thank you. Dear Minister, my question about the draft law on public custody will be brief and simple. One. When can it be expected that this highly needed draft, not only for the municipalities and cities on whose territory there are social welfare institutions, will it finally head to the Chamber of Deputies? Two. It will be provided to municipalities for the performance of public custody, which is still happening free of charge, e.g. custody grants or other forms of remuneration? Three. Is it expected at this time that public guardians will be municipalities of all types, or not? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u151	And I thank you for your interpellation, and I will ask the Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u152	Thank you, Mr President. The remaining honourable Members, I will try to be equally clear in my answer. According to the Government's legislative plan, we have a deadline for bringing this law into government by the end of this year, so it can be assumed that it should reach the House sometime in the spring of next year. We are currently assuming - this is one of the key elements of the law - that there should really be some subsidies, some rewards for municipalities for exercising this scope, which I do not, however, conceal that this is one of the main pitfalls of the law, because for quite understandable reasons The Treasury has a bit of a problem with that. In the current version, we assume that this power should be conferred on all types of municipalities as the Union of Towns and Municipalities wishes, as far as I know. However, I must mention again that, in particular, the Ministry of the Interior does not seem to have an entirely identical view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u153	Thank you. I ask whether the honourable Member will have an additional question. Yes, it is. Please put her down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u154	I don't have an additional question. Thanks for the answer, that's enough for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u155	And in that case, let's go straight to interpellation number 25, which is directed at the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u156	Dear Minister, the issue of journals flashed several articles on 1 April, where it was clear at first sight that these were the texts of April. In some of them their ruthless character was recognizable immediately, in some until after a longer survey. I'm not sure about some of them until now. These include an article published in the Hospodářské noviny under the title The church restitution is now supervised by an ideally advanced border chief. It follows that the post of Deputy Minister for Church Restitution in the State Land Office is held by the former Major Border Guard, a favourite of the Communist regime before 1989. I quote Hospodářské noviny's excerpts: As border chief at the Western enemy border with the Germans, he was constantly praised. For a conscientious work for the previous regime he received honours for the service of the homeland, for the merit for the defence of the homeland and also for the merit for the defence of the border of the ČSSR in 1989. In his career as a border worker, he managed to detain several people who tried to get out of totalitarian freedom through the Iron Curtain. His file is full of boxes with a sentence: Reward for apprehending an intruder of the state border. If I said that I had mixed feelings about putting this person in the position of deputy for church restitution, I would be too mild. Dear Minister, I was wondering whether this article is about April or not. Could you please explain that to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-30-ps2013-027-03-008-139.u157	Thank you, Madame. As the Minister apologizes, the reply to your interview will be sent in writing. And I'm saying that for today, we've ended the oral questioning because it came down to all those who wanted to interpel the ministers. I interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and wish you a nice weekend and a nice 1st May experience. Have a good day.
