ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 45 and 46 / House prints 554 and 555/ First up is Mrs Hana Jírovcová Aulická. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u2	Thank you, Mr President. You turned it around again. [[With laughter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me also make a few comments on these proposals for this amendment. The law itself is necessary and it would be a move forward, but without the implementation of greater powers for administrative authorities in the context of obtaining evidence, some provisions of the law are redundant or even useless. It is still in line that the offence has little social harm and the entire infringement procedure has been downplayed. The application of the provisions taken from criminal law is therefore problematic and sometimes beyond the possibility of administrative authorities due to the status of administrative proceedings and administrative authorities as opposed to criminal and judicial proceedings. Now allow me for individual shortcomings and in specific parts of the bill presented. Title VII. Administrative penalties and their imposition. In the case of types of administrative penalties for the forfeiture of the case, there is a lack of input or substitute value, as further specified in Section 49. The petitioner presents five types of punishment, but is it sufficient, given the years of practice and the ability of the administrative authorities to impose penalties that can be enforceable? How will those who are wealthless and misdemeanors be punished on a regular basis? What about imposing a punishment for generally beneficial work for such persons, where they would basically work off the fine? Isn't this at least worth thinking about and finding a solution? This will only punish decent people who have gone astray. Title VIII. Protective measures. In the case of types of protective measures and prevents things from being delivered or replaced, as further specified in Section 54. Title IX. Special provisions concerning adolescents. It is not clear from the text whether all five types of administrative sentences can be imposed on the youth, or only the two mentioned and logically humiliated against the punishment of legal age. There is absolutely no possibility of imposing youth protection measures restricting, for example, the prohibition to visit designated public places. Why? Part three. A misdemeanor trial. Title II. Legal relations with a foreigner. I am not an expert in administrative proceedings, but it is either very ambitious or meaningless provisions. As far as I know, no such thing is agreed with certain states on criminal proceedings. International treaties concern only criminal proceedings. And without an international treaty, no one's gonna give us anything or tell us anything. Title IV. Parties to the proceedings. I do not know why the appellant is not among the parties to the proceedings. He is a party to the proceedings in the current criminal law in Section 68. In essence, we refer to him in this law in Section 71 as a person directly affected by the offence. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Title VI. Procedure in the proceedings. In § 83 - guarantee of compliance. This provision seems redundant to me, because for the inadaptable it is useless and polite in the vast majority of cases normally comes because it wants to be over. In § 87 the settlement is a clear example of the fact that there are already at least two categories of persons in our country, namely the wealthy and the propertyless. The wealthy ones will be given the opportunity to redeem themselves from wrongdoing, and they will even be impunity, and that does not seem right to me. Title IX. Persons entitled to appeal. Why is there no plaintiff among these persons who loses the opportunity to plead guilty? These are just some of the shortcomings that I see in the submitted material and which would need to be dealt with somehow. And, as I mentioned in the introduction, the law has so many shortcomings that their resolution is very difficult for committee or committees only, and therefore I propose to return the law to the petitioner for revision. I would also suggest that the petitioner consider setting up a working group to deal with the material professionally and present better material than this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u3	I don't thank the lady. The honourable Member proposes that the law be re-established, but we have a merged debate. Which one do you mean? Both of them, or just 45? Or just 46?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u4	I'm sorry. This concerns a point or a House press of 555. [[Screams from the O.R. that the best thing is to tell them both.]] Or both. Both. Like this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u5	Okay. So both bills. Thank you. I'm registering this proposal. I'll read the apologies. Mr. Jiří Štětina apologizes from 18:00 for personal reasons. President Marek Černoch has been apologizing since 18.15 for health reasons. Mr. Milan Šarapatka apologizes until 19 o'clock today. And Mrs Květa Matušovská apologizes today at 17 o'clock for personal reasons. I ask who else is reporting for the merged debate. Mr. Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been little work done over these two prints, whether 554, or 555, and we really need to tighten up this change and we are waiting for it. However, in the transitional period during which these laws will come into effect and will be applied, it is necessary that the amendment law be applied and adopted in this transitional period. After all, as the explanatory memorandum in both cases, for printing 555 and for printing 554, this presumes that the amendment law must be approved at the latest with the effect of the approval of these laws. [[18.10 hours]] The one that will regulate how the proceedings are going to be handled, how possible offences that would disappear from the legislation have not been specifically modified, how to deal with them, how to complete individual proceedings, or how to proceed in the ongoing ones. So at this point, I would like to ask you how I can vote or not vote on the proposal that has been made here, about returning these two prints to recast. As it appears with the amendment law, which both explanatory reports presume to approve with effect with these laws at the latest, and when this law will be submitted, or at the stage of preparation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u7	Thank you, Mr Farský. The Minister is crouching his shoulders, and he doesn't know, yet he wants to answer us. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u8	Thank you. Again completely fair, I am not able to answer you at this point, but it is certainly possible to find out information, but not entirely in turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u9	I thank the Minister for this reply. I ask who else is reporting to the merged general debate. Mr. Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. [[Minister Herman is yet to speak.]] If the Member gives you preference - and gives. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u10	Thank you for your understanding, I have a report from the Ministry of the Interior that the amendment law will come to the Chamber of Deputies in autumn. So this is the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u11	Thank you for the quick response. prosit, Mr. Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u12	Dear Vice-President, gentlemen of Ministers, there are exceptionally quite a lot of them here, ladies and gentlemen, what is presented to us is a rather simple and non-trivial standard. I don't know who you've had the chance to study this at least a little bit, but there's a fact going down the road that criminal proceedings are almost nearing trial until the last moment. In a whole series of things, in institutes, breakdowns, mitigating circumstances, aggravating circumstances, imposing penalties, and a lot of other things. I'm not even saying it's completely wrong. I'm just not 100% sure if we're really ready for this first, and if it makes real sense to try to create such a complex misdemeanor procedure even for those in the quotes of administrative offenses as they have been so far. For the very difficult things, the considerable fines, the teams of lawyers against each other. And even for the complete backpackers we have in the municipalities, the type of civil coexistence disruption. I feel that there is an effort here to adjust the complex processes that the administrative court enters today and daily and says today and daily: Here you still have to provide such protection, and here the process must be carried out fairly. And I understand that then, of course, the government is trying to react in some way to make the process look the same in the more complex proceedings. But I'm not quite sure it's really right to subdue all the controls. I don't know who remembers the impact the new administration had on the authorities. Thus, it was in many respects more similar to the existing or, thus, the previous administrative order than this infringement procedure is similar to that of the existing. And it was performed almost exclusively by persons who were qualified to do so. Here we have in a number of cases especially in the municipalities of persons who, I don't want to say, are not qualified, but who have some experience with how the infringement proceedings are carried out up to now. And now I'm gonna forget about regular finers who also have experience with today's regular fines. But I'm not quite sure how much they'll be able to fulfill all the parameters of this law. I think I'm going to lean towards the proposal that Mrs Jírovcová told us to bring the bill back to the government because there are a number of problems. And I'm not gonna quote them in detail right now because I think it's pointless and it's pointless when the government is represented by the Minister of Culture, who, with all due respect, admits to him that he doesn't know almost anything about it except that he's a member of the government that approved it. And I understand that. At the same time, however, I think that if we decided to order the draft law that we should significantly extend the deadline for discussions in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. I suggest at least 20 days, but if the petitioner's consent were to do so, I think it would be right to extend it to 100 days so that there would be time and space on the Constitutional Legal Committee to dig through it thoroughly. Honestly, what Mr Farský said, the law cannot begin to apply, or only very difficult, until the amendment law has been approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The same effect will have to be postponed until the House is discussed and approved by the amendment law. So I would very much like to say that on this very matter, which really means a very significant recodification, which is not so much a matter of substance, that someone would fundamentally disagree with the fact that the infringement proceedings should be properly adjusted, but rather a problem of professional and legal, what we are supposed to keep in it, where everywhere we are to take care of this complex process, which is in the draft law, or both of those laws, but especially in dealing with the offences that are proposed. If we don't go down the road, in some cases, we'll allow it to be simplified. Because you know how we formalized our criminal proceedings. Then we're bringing in criminal orders. Okay, well, here we have straight-up criminal orders in the bill. But I wonder how it's going to work and how it's going to benefit in that practice. So that we don't really get into a situation where we find out that we've only put an endless delay in criminal proceedings. And unfortunately, I fear that the appellants, especially from the legal sphere, are counting on this to extend the procedure considerably. We've just recently had a draft law on a criminal record in which, as one of the interventions, we've been doing that we've extended the deadline for a year-to-two infringement. Here is a limitation period of one year, for some five-year offenses, a period of one year, for some three-year offences. And even the limitation period and the negotiation period are still being built by some other measures. And we know what a problem this is about today in these criminal proceedings, building a statute of limitations. Because we're getting into situations where things are judged that are 15, 20 years old, there's basically no way we can get them to the end. Because it's the law enforcement authorities that feel they have enough time, because as long as criminal prosecutions go on, the statute of limitations don't run. I'm afraid that we're getting into a similar problem in this misdemeanor agenda, or that we're recording a similar problem where we may have misdemeanor proceedings, not the difficult ones, when we're dealing with a ten billion crowns atomic law procedure, but simple administrative proceedings against a natural person in the village, that we can stretch out for years. Maybe even for many years. Where, of course, the subsequent sanctions, even if they happen to come and become final, have no effect at all and no meaning at all. So I would ask very much that if we were to bring this bill to the committees, I assume that this is a government bill, or the committees will be ordered, but to extend the deadline by at least 20 days, if the petitioner's consent was, I would propose 40 days to make enough time for the bill to be proposed on the constitutional law committee and possibly also on the public administration committee, which I would also propose, because municipalities are discussers of a number of offences, so that we have time there in some way to unify and coordinate those opinions and find some solutions that will still work in the future. This does not call into question the fact that we should improve the current situation, which, in many cases, is now governed by more judicial case law than the applicable wording of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u13	I thank Mr Benda. I'm registering his motion to extend the time limit to a hundred days? Both prints? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] That's right. Thank you for the clarification. I ask, who else is reporting to the merged general debate? If no one else reports to the merged general debate, I will end the merged general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u14	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the petitioner, I agree with extending the deadline to 100 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-013-999.u15	I thank the Minister with this consent. I will call our colleagues from the front door and we will vote on the return of the proposed proposal to the plaintiff for the press 554, at paragraph 45, as proposed by Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová.
