ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-001-132.u1	132. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child establishing a procedure for the submission of a notice /public press 505/ - second reading I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-001-132.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, Mr President. I'd like to ask you to give your consent to the ratification -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-001-132.u3	Minister, I am sorry, but it is probably the third time I have asked the House for peace, and still in vain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-001-132.u4	I see. I would also like to ask you colleagues to take a moment to listen to a few words for the introduction of this treaty, which we should ratify. This is a contract concerning the protection of the rights of the child. Protocol, its essence is that he sets the procedure. As soon as a notification of the infringement is submitted, how further action is to be taken. It is simply another step towards strengthening rights in the area of child protection. Such notification will be able to be made by an individual, a group of people, a Contracting Party to this Convention, by a State which will detect any similar breach. You might wonder if this also applies to Norwegian children, given how timely it is. I shall inform you straight away that Norway is not a party to this Protocol, and even if it became a Contracting Party to Norway, the cases could only become part of the investigation after the entry. That means it can't be backwards. I'm only telling you this for interest given that the subject here is up to date. As far as the decision of the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of the Child is also binding, I would also like to inform you that the State undertakes, when it accedes to the Treaty, to consider the conclusions of the Committee or to consider the conclusions reached by the Committee in the cases under consideration of alleged infringement of the rights of the child. The State is obliged to cooperate with the Committee in its deliberations and the Committee may also provide services in finding a friendly solution. The committee does not have a judicial nature. It's not like the committee could decide the matter after that. It's not like that. It is a strengthening of the rights of the child, it is an opportunity to open it on the international forum, but it does not mean that there is an automatic solution by the committee deciding something. Unfortunately, that's not how this protocol works. As I said before, it is only possible to file the violations that will occur after ratification takes place between the states that apply to it. We know a similar complaint mechanism in the Czech Republic. For example, it is a convention against torture that we have in the Czech Republic. Against torture or humiliating treatment, punishing people. It's an option protocol to the convention. [[9.10 hours]] Here, a similar way to work such a protocol is to experience it. And then there's another convention that's similar to this one that concerns the protection of children, and that's a convention to eliminate forms of discrimination against women. This is another version of a similar convention that works in the same way. I am still informing you that the Senate has already agreed to this Convention on 23 September 2015. I hope the House will succeed. With regard to the burden of administrative and financial, the number of notifications filed against the Czech Republic in the above mentioned international complaints - for example, for women, it is 24 submissions to give you an idea of what the scope is. None of these submissions were filed against the Czech Republic of those decided by the Committee since December 2000. I believe that there is good reason enough for us to sign up to this Convention to strengthen the possibility of protecting children's rights, however this will, of course, not mean a revolutionary reversal that would solve the cases we are dealing with today, but it is a step forward. And it is obvious that the problem of protecting children's rights is very topical, and I think that it is necessary to take part in and become part of such initiatives. That's my opinion. I hope the House has a similar one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-001-132.u5	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I'll read more apologies. Mrs Adamová apologizes today from 9 to 9.30 for reasons of work, Mrs Chalánková today all day for reasons of work, Mr Petr Fiala apologises from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work, and Mr Adam apologises from 12 o'clock for reasons of health. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Jana Fischerová, to justify to us the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 505/1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-001-132.u6	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. And to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant Friday morning. I'll follow up on the Minister's words. On 3 September, this House press was discussed in a foreign committee and there was quite an extensive discussion there. Everything was explained, but the final vote was to recommend the approval of this option protocol. I will say a few more information as rapporteur, which I will just add to the Minister's words, because it did not occur here, for example, that this convention was already approved in 2000 and the Czech Republic ratified two option protocols concerning two specific areas. For one thing, this concerned the option protocol on involving children in armed conflicts, otherwise it is called the first option protocol, which the parties committed in particular that persons under 18 years of age will not be required to join the armed forces and do not participate directly in combat actions. So it was the first option protocol. The second option protocol concerns the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. This second option protocol obliges parties to prohibit the sale of children, their prostitution and child pornography. So now we're on the third option protocol. The Czech Republic ratified both the first two option protocols, as I said before. It was the first option protocol in 2001, and the second option protocol in 2013.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-001-132.u7	Colleagues, colleagues, there are two options. I'm either gonna keep reminding you, or I'm gonna interrupt the meeting, and I'm gonna give you some space to calm down. I understand the opposition would welcome that. The truth is, the noise is coming from the left side of the hall. I don't think that would be the ideal solution. Please take that into account. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-001-132.u8	Mr President, thank you very much. I'm watching someone listen to me carefully, seeing from the look on their faces, someone less, so I'm trying to impress everyone here. Thank you. In the order of the third option protocol, this time introducing a notification procedure, it creates a new mechanism for sending individual notifications to draw attention to specific cases of breaches of the Convention or to one of the first two option protocols. That was an explanation of the history of these first option protocols, and now the third one, actually the convention, follows up on that. I will mention here that the Treaty has already been ratified by six states of the European Union and eleven States have committed themselves to it. As far as I know, the Czech Republic has discussed experience with this option protocol with Germany and Slovakia. These two States have already ratified this Convention. In our case in the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should ensure the implementation of this protocol, of course in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. After the first three years of application of this Protocol, the government should assess the overall situation as it appears, because so far in the first few years there should be no direct impact on the state budget, because before it becomes effective and an evaluation takes place, there are still certain times when the committee has a duty to evaluate the complaint, it has six months to do so, and the next six months again it is up to the state to have the opportunity to answer that. I will now proceed to read the Foreign Committee resolution of 3 September this year. Following the reasoning of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, doktor Martin Smolek, D, Ms Jana Fischerová's intelligence report, and after the debate, the Foreign Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies shall adopt the following resolution: Chamber of Deputies 1. Approves the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child establishing a procedure for the submission of notifications, with the following declaration being made when the instrument of ratification is deposited: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child establishing the procedure for submitting notifications declares that the Czech Republic recognises the competence of the Committee on the Rights of the Child to receive and discuss notifications under this Article. 2. He instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. 3. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at a meeting of the Foreign Committee. I suggest you approve this option protocol. These are the child's highest rights. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-001-132.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. Nobody's checking in, I'm done with the debate. We will proceed to the vote on the resolution, as proposed by the Foreign Committee and as presented by the rapporteur. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 89, registered 158, for 146, against no one. This proposal was adopted. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm done discussing paragraph 132. Let's go to the point
