ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-007-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation and on Amendment and Supplement to Act No. 468/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended, as amended, and Act No. 256/2001 Coll., on burial and amending certain laws, as amended /house print 363/ - second reading I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek for taking up his seat at the counter, and I will ask Mr Martin Komárek to take up his seat at the rapporteur's table. Minister, you have the opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-007-003.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a brief introduction to the amendment to the Act on Advertising Regulation, which you are about to address now. It is a government bill whose main aim is to remedy the shortcomings in the transposition of the directive on unfair commercial practices towards consumers in the internal market, which were imposed on the Czech Republic by the European Commission, in relation to the Act on Advertising Regulation. The proposal also adapts the law on the regulation of advertising on the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of food information to consumers. This Regulation also applies to advertising and is currently directly applicable in all EU countries, i.e. also in the Czech Republic. In addition, the proposal will make the enforcement of the advertising regulation more effective by transferring the supervisory powers for advertising on foods containing nutrition or health claims from regional trade offices to the State Agricultural and Food Inspection. Similarly, this is the case in the case of lotteries on the basis of an agreement with the Ministry of Finance. The proposal was discussed in the Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, which recommended its resolution 78 of 27 March 2015 to give its consent to the Government's proposal as amended by the amendments adopted. I agree with these amendments adopted by the Election Committee as they contribute to improving the proposal. I have also come to know the written amendment made by Mr Daniel Korte, on which I consider it important to comment. Although the Member's amendment contains a total of 34 points, they all relate to the abolition of the provisions of the Advertising Regulation Act, which contains an explicit ban on advertising based on subliminal perception, and an explicit ban on advertising hidden. However - and I stress this - this is not about abolishing the prohibition of such advertising, but only about repealing the provisions of the Advertising Regulation, as the explicit prohibition contained therein exceeds the limits laid down in the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, and this is unacceptable in the transposition of this Directive, which is in the regime of full harmonisation. And it was also accused by the Czech Republic by the European Commission that such advertising should be regarded as advertising, which is an unfair commercial practice. Unfair commercial practices in advertising are expressly prohibited by the advertising regulation law and their evaluation is carried out according to Part Two of the Consumer Protection Act - Section 4 and the following. I fully agree with the Member that hidden advertising and advertising based on subliminal perception are unfair and that the abolition of the ban on such advertising would not be appropriate for any reason. However, the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Advertising Regulation does nothing of this nature, reacts only to the complaint that the framework of full harmonisation would not be exceeded in the transposition of the European Directive and explains in the explanatory memorandum that the defective advertising in question would continue to be regarded as unfair commercial practices, which is the most possible fine under the Advertising Regulation Act up to 5 million. Crowns. For the reasons I have said, I cannot therefore agree with Mr Korte's amendments. At the same time, I believe that I have refuted the assumption that, as a result of the government proposal, subliminal or hidden advertising would be permitted in the Czech legal order. Mr President, Madam Members, the proposal before you now removes, as I mentioned at the outset, the partial shortcomings in the advertising regulation law, in particular with regard to the European Commission's criticism of the transposition of the directive into unfair commercial practices. In view of this, I ask you to support the motion and release it until the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-007-003.u3	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek and I note that at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 23 January 2015, this press was ordered to discuss the election committee. And since it was directed only to the Election Committee, according to the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, the Election Committee also became a Committee of Guarantees, so we do not need to vote on the Guarantee Committee under the amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act. The committee resolution was delivered to you as House prints 363/1 and 363/2. I therefore now ask the rapporteur of the electoral committee, Mr Martin Komárek, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-007-003.u4	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know when I look at the board that, despite the greatest briefness, I don't think I can stop the interruption of this point. I refer to House press 363/2, where there are amendments. But I think it's necessary to read them here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-007-003.u5	The rapporteur, I'm sure. I, of course, have to stop discussing this point at 12.45, but I think you can certainly tell the basics of the electoral committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-007-003.u6	Yes. So, at its 20th meeting, the Election Committee adopted a resolution recommending to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to give its consent to the Government's draft law, as amended by the following amendments: 1. As regards point 16 of Section 5d, paragraph 5d is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 40 reads: "Regulation (EC) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 110/2008; Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 1308/2013.". 2. As regards point 19 of Section 7 (a) of the Guidelines, the (g) "and health claims" shall be replaced by "a" and the words "food information to consumers" shall be inserted after "and for data used contrary to the directly applicable provisions of the European Union laying down rules for the use of designations of origin, geographical indications and traditional terms." 3. As regards point 22 of Article 7a (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that: the words "without undue delay' shall be replaced by the words "within the time limit laid down by the supervisory authority, but within at least 5 working days' and the words "the data on the person' shall be inserted after the words "the data on the person'. 4. As regards point 46 of § 8a para. "or directly applicable Regulation of the European Union laying down rules for the use of designations of origin, geographical indications or traditional terms' shall be added at the end of the text of point (j). 5. As regards point 46 of § 8a para. 2 at the end of point (j), the dot is replaced by a comma and the following point (k) is added: "Lottery reverse advertising and other similar games not authorised or not notified under special legislation'. 6. As regards point 47 of § 8a para. "or directly applicable European Union legislation laying down rules for the use of designations of origin, geographical indications or traditional terms' shall be added at the end of the text of point (i). 7. As regards point 53 of § 8a para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (c)'(b)'is replaced by'(b) or (k) '. Now for a brief explanation. Most of these amendments are legislative technical proposals from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which we adopted after the debate in the electoral committee. There are two important changes in the content resulting from the amendments that we adopted on the electoral committee. That is to say, at the request of the Radio and Television Council, which we found to be legitimate, the original situation is changing when the Radio and Television Council, when it investigated advertising which it considered to be in breach of the Code of Conduct or otherwise defective, was unable to track down the contracting authorities. So she could only prosecute any media that broadcast this ad. It will now be possible to track this contracting authority in our amendment. And a second major change. Among the ads that we consider to be prosecutable in the regime of administrative delinquency, we also consider ads for lotteries and other similar games unauthorized or not notified under special legislation. And I'm afraid I'm gonna have to go back to talking about how we acted after the interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-007-003.u7	Okay, thank you, that's what I was gonna ask. I will consider the opening word of the Minister of Industry and Trade as a matter of concern from the perspective of the interruption of this point, and the interruption was at the time of the rapporteur's report, Martin Komárek, stating that it would be up to him whether he would complete his report at the time of the reopening, or respond to the debate that had not yet begun. I'm interrupting point three. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. We'll deal with point number
