ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-19-ps2013-029-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the fourth day of the 29th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. I agree that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Mrs Jana Lorencová for health reasons, Petr Adam health reasons, Jan Bartošek working reasons, Ondřej Benešík until 10.30 health reasons, Adolf Beznoska foreign travel, Karel Černý without giving reason, Petr Fiala health reasons, Karel Fiedler working reasons, Ivan Gabal foreign travel, Vlastimil Gabrhel working reasons, Vítězslav Jandák working reasons, David Kádner health reasons, Rom Kostřica health reasons, Josef Kostřica Nekl foreign trip, Ladislav Okleštěk health reasons, Gabriela Pecková between 10:00 and 14:00 working reasons, Anna Putnová personal reasons, Karel Rais health reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg working reasons, Jiří Skalickýý personal reasons, Milan Šarapatka foreign trip, Karel Tureček family reasons, Helena Válková working reasons, Josef Vondrášek health reasons, Miloslava Vostrá family reasons, Kristýna Zelienková until 10:30 working reasons. From today's meeting the following members of the government apologized: Daniel Herman working reasons, Bohuslav Sobotka foreign travel, Martin Stropnickýý until 10:30 working reasons, Dan Ťok within 10 hours working reasons. That's all for apologies. Ladies and gentlemen, on the bench, you have received a proposal from the political grémia to continue the Chamber of Deputies meeting on Friday, today, June 19, and the week from July 7 to July 10, 2015. I will ask you, if it is possible for you to keep your voice down a bit, because we are dealing with a program so that you may know what we will be voting on. If there is no objection, I will vote on this proposal at once. I don't see any objection. I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of the proposed adjustment of the programme. Anyone in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 84, to which 129 are registered, for 126. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We will therefore now proceed to discuss the approved item of the programme. The first in order is the point
