ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u1	129. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part /German press 310/ - Second reading Please take the floor gradually, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and then Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u2	Good evening, good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, honourable Members, I think it is unnecessary for me to repeat the whole genesis and characteristics of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. Perhaps let me mention only the most important thing in the process of ratifying this agreement at this time. First of all, I am pleased and I would like to appreciate that the agreement has been recommended by the House for approval by a large majority of the two committees which have been ordered for discussion, both by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and by the Committee on European Union Affairs. At the same time, I would point out once again that the agreement was ratified by the Ukrainian and European Parliament in a synchronous manner on 16 September. From the EU Member States, 24 countries ratified the agreement, so if you asked who had not yet ratified it, it is Cyprus and Greece and Belgium's sixth parliament, because Belgium has six cantonal parliaments, so the sixth Belgian Parliament did not ratify it, so only the sixth cantonal, Cyprus and Greece. Otherwise, all countries have already ratified the agreement. Perhaps it is interesting that when I looked at the numbers, at the conditions in which the agreement was approved, they are often a vast majority. I can inform those who are interested that the discussions were quite clear in the countries of the European Union. I would like to emphasise once again what I actually repeat here regularly, that the agreement does not mean any step forward in Ukraine's membership of the European Union or Ukraine's membership of the European Union. On the contrary, what the agreement deals with are reforms, the fight against corruption in Ukraine. In fact, a meeting took place between the European Union and Ukraine in March, where a list of reform priorities for Ukraine has just been established. They mainly concern the areas of reform of the Constitution, electoral, judiciary, the fight against corruption, public administration reforms, a very important area is energy reform, a new energy law, deregulation, reform of public purchases, taxation and external audit. That is what should be the subject of an annual evaluation if the agreement comes into force. What is part of what characterizes the situation today is the question of implementing the so-called Minsk agreements, which have also been made between Russia, Ukraine and the European Union. Implementation of these agreements is also very important at the moment for the stabilisation of Ukraine and, in fact, for the possibility of implementing this agreement in the future. I would like to inform you about this - first of all, perhaps I would like to emphasise, I have also said this here, but I repeat that ratification and implementation of the agreement does not constitute a life-threatening threat to trade relations between Ukraine and Russia. There has been a free trade zone between Russia and Ukraine since 2011. The European Union is conducting trilateral negotiations and trilateral consultations with Russia and Ukraine to dispel the doubts that are on the Russian side that this free trade agreement will damage and will in some way fundamentally affect relations between Russia and Ukraine. The European Union defends the view that the free trade zone is not in conflict and is not something that would harm trade between Ukraine and Russia. I would like to say that this discussion of the association agreement is returning to our table in the House at a time when the hope of stabilisation in the eastern Ukraine is increasing. Around 1 September, a truce is basically respected. The peace negotiations within the Norman format show signs of willingness of all parties, including Russia, to respect the ceasefire in a sustainable manner. I have quite good news even from the last few days, from the last meeting in Normandy format, where I was informed that there was a real interest in keeping the truce. At the same time, Ukrainian President Petr Porošenko gradually succeeds in convincing the Ukrainian Parliament of the need to adopt important laws that show Ukraine's commitment to the Minsk agreements. I say it in a cautious diplomatic language. You all probably know, or most of you, that it wasn't so easy, because the recent adoption of decentralization laws, which took place on the Kiev Trust Board, as you remember, was accompanied by quite a lot of stormy events on the street, which even claimed three human lives. This means that the adoption of the constitutional law, which was just about the decentralization of Ukraine and which concerned the specific status of Donetsk and Luhansk, is a matter which was perceived controversially, and above all some extreme right-wing forces on the street have organized riots which, as I have already said, unfortunately demanded the blast of the grenade, even dead. I am saying this here because it is a demonstration that the current Ukrainian government is implementing certain elements of the Minsk agreement, even at the cost of having to face at times a pretty hard reaction of certain, but in my opinion, a lot of extreme forces, which are also part of Ukrainian society. But she goes that way at that price. And I would like to say one thing here that I believe that at this moment I see both on the side of Petr Porošenko and on the side of Vladimír Putin actually a similar attempt to avoid escalation of the conflict in Donetsk and Luhansk, or on Donbas, and to break free from the conflict. I think I can afford to say it here. That doesn't mean they're not huge problems. You, too, may also be interested in this, know that the problems concern the Statute of Donetsk and Luhansk and the problem that concerns the possibility and the impossibility of holding elections, because the elections that are going to Donbas are not in accordance with the Constitution, but at the same time adopt laws in the Faithful Council that would allow them within the Constitution. This is also a very difficult matter for the current Ukrainian parliament in Kiev. So the situation here is very serious. [[18.10 hours]] I read Vladimir Putin's opinion. Recently, in the very last days, it has been heard that if the Minsk agreements fail to be fulfilled by the end of the year, so that it should be an extension and that deadline for fulfilling the Minsk agreements further than this year, however, the announcement also said that the priority was to manage it by the end of this year. I'm just saying this because I think our position is clear that we should try to keep that term, and it is, of course, a rather difficult task for the current Ukrainian government, but it would be very good if we could do so. I believe that the approval of the association agreement, which is probably quite monitored in the Czech Republic at the moment, in the Chamber of Deputies, could contribute to making it clear that we are interested in giving birth to a solution in Ukraine that will mean stabilisation and consolidation of the situation and will, of course, be absolutely in the session, in my view, with what the debates have been doing today in the overwhelming majority of the parliaments of the European Union countries, which have clearly supported the ratification. I will keep the details, if there were questions, and that would be the end of the introduction, and I hope that the debate will be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u3	Thank you, I just want to say that Minister Mládek is excused today for work reasons. Before we continue, let me also welcome on your behalf to the gallery of the Ambassador of Ukraine, Borys Zajčuk, who is present for our meeting. [[Standing ovation.]] I see an application here with priority rights. I'm asking whether I can invite the newsletter or whether it's for progress. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all here, who have listened carefully to Minister Zaorálek, to hear the words that seemed quite promising to us, however, as we know reality, so I am convinced that the promising words, or that the present representation of Kiev, do not offer much hope that the hopeful words about reforms will also be fulfilled. It is a certain new situation, the observance of the ceasefire since the beginning of September is, say, an interesting chance, an interesting way to try and get out of line, but I remember when the association agreement was signed when the Czech Republic was preparing for accession to the European Union and what was then. I am not really convinced that the current Kiev representation is capable, or maybe at some point even more willing to actually accept any of this, or at least deal with it. As a KSČM club, we reflect that there is some pressure for accelerated ratification, speedy negotiation of an association agreement in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament, but it is also our responsibility in front of our voters, citizens, but also in front of European institutions, if at least someone points out that everything is not as pink as it seems, or maybe it is imposing. We simply need to be absolutely clear, we also need to communicate our knowledge and opinions, we need to say, let's say, even if we are to terminate, so at this point I am asking for a break in the meeting of the KSČM club by 7:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u5	Yes. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u6	Thank you. Of course, I respect the President's request to the KSČM Club and I'm really only gonna be a minute. I just have to confide in you my feelings of bitterness and amusement at the same time when the President spoke of understanding that there is some pressure. The time pressure here is about that right here in this The Chamber of Deputies' treaty for ratification has been three quarters of a year, and three quarters of a year, the government has not found the courage to present it. I want to thank the Secretary of State today for finding the courage in himself, but calling it the time pressure, that's a great euphemism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u7	Okay. Mr. Kováčik's microphone, please. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'll be more specific. Firstly, there are many things here, bills, especially from the pen of the right-wing opposition, for more than a year, and it doesn't excite anyone very much, so I would pass at this point. But I spoke about the pressure mainly because there are not too many materials that are being discussed in the Chamber of Deputies and to which, as clubs, the Prime Minister will address us directly by a special letter. So I'm assuming that there's some interest, and I'm taking it as some kind of pressure to have, let's say, a quick discussion of the material. However, I insist that I request a break at the club meeting, and if respected, please club KSČM to meet immediately after the break is announced in the club's premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u9	Of course, I accept your request and interrupt negotiations until 7:30. I ask the representatives of the political clubs to meet with the President at 6:20 p.m. to arrange for further action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u10	Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, it really is not an obstruction, but during the break that the KSČM MP club took, representatives of all political clubs gathered at President Hamáček to arrange a script for tomorrow and then the Chamber of Deputies meeting on 29 to 31 October. [[September]] It was a very painful compromise. I've called the MP's club to get heavily exclaimed for how soft I was, however, it was simply an agreement that we were prepared to hold. After returning here to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, I have now learned from other ANO club representatives that the agreement that was concluded does not apply and that none of what we agreed on does not apply, which, as you understand, I must inform the club because I have just disinformed him. That's why I'm asking you to take a 20-minute break and forget I'm gonna make another deal with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u12	Meet me at 7:51. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the Chamber, we will continue. The opening words of the Minister of Foreign Affairs have been heard. The resolution of the Foreign Committee and the Committee on European Affairs has been delivered to you as press 310/1 and /2. I therefore ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mrs Jana Fischerová, to speak after her, Mrs Kristýna Zelienková, who is the rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u14	I wish you all a pleasant evening. As rapporteur for this press, I will only allow myself to inform you in a nutshell about what actually happened, and it has been since 4. 9th year 2014, when this association agreement was submitted to us, so was the Senate. So it's been over a year. The first reading was 10. 12. It was at the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and there were 23 contributions. But it was interrupted afterwards. Then 12. 2. 2015 was 34 contributions, unfortunately the first reading was interrupted again and continued until 2 April 2015. In the meantime, a seminar took place on April 1, 2015... in the House of Deputies building. [[short silence for noise in the hall]] It was with the Secretary of State's participation. I've been there, there's been a lot said. There was a commentary on the current situation in Ukraine. And in the meantime, there's been a lot of time and two. 4. during the first reading, it was at the 26th meeting, when there were 24 contributions, so after the first reading, the House press was ordered 310 to the Foreign Committee and the Committee on European Affairs. On 15 April there was a discussion on the foreign committee, quite extensive, but a resolution was adopted. Similarly, on 15 April, the Committee on European Affairs. The deadline has even been shortened to 40 days to discuss, and we are now finally getting this press back on the agenda at 1951 at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I will mention here that we returned to the Foreign Committee - it was 9. 6. it was paragraph 7, when Mr Leo Luzar read the accompanying resolution on this association agreement, but the Members did not agree, because the negotiations took place by two of the members of the Foreign Committee for the accompanying resolution of Mr Luzar, six opposed and three abstained. I wanted to report on the current situation in Ukraine, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs has already commented on this in detail before me, so I will not go back to that. Rather, I will speak later when this press is under discussion today, and I wish that this association agreement should indeed be approved today, because we are together, as has been said here, only with Belgium, with Greece and Cyprus, the last European Union countries to ratify this association agreement. I am very sorry, and as rapporteur, I wish that this be agreed as quickly as possible today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u15	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the European Committee, Mrs Zelienková, to take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the Committee on European Affairs has approved this issue and unanimously recommends approving the ratification of the association agreement with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u17	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Before we proceed to the applications on the board, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip shall have priority. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u18	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, I have my speech divided into three parts, and that part is heading towards the Prime Minister, and I will probably have to wait until he comes. Otherwise, the first part concerns all of us. Let me start by quoting the European Parliament resolution number 26/99/2014 of 16 April last year on this point. In point 31, the European Parliament recalls that the Association Agreements are not the ultimate objective of building relations between the European Union and Ukraine and the Eastern Partnership countries. In this context, it stresses that, under Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, as well as any other European State, have a European perspective and can apply for membership of the European Union if they respect the principles of democracy, the principles of freedom, human rights and the rights of minorities and ensure the functioning of the rule of law. That's what I think is something we can all agree with. I remind you that the Czech Republic, when it asked for an association agreement again after the break-up of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, began to fulfil very seriously individual policies from the very beginning. However, this is not the case in Ukraine, and I believe that if any of the Member States is to agree to an association agreement, it should also ensure that the State that requested the association agreement fulfils these conditions, which I have read under the resolution of the European Parliament. I must say, and I will proceed more from the youngest to the oldest, that I do not like the situation after Maidan in Ukraine. I remind you that I have been in the Group of Friends Czech Republic - Ukraine for many years, I have many friends in Ukraine. I have colleagues from law practice, I have friends who work in universities, they are prominent entrepreneurs, but they are also ordinary people who live there. I have, of course, my friends there in the partner Communist Party of Ukraine. But what stopped me. Contrary to this resolution by the European Parliament, two things took place this summer. The first thing is that the Communist Party of Ukraine has been eliminated in violation of this European Parliament resolution from the electoral struggle, even though it is still a legitimate part of the political scene. The trial against the Communist Party of Ukraine is not over. The trial is due tomorrow. We don't know if this trial is gonna happen or not, and I'm not gonna repeat the things I said at first reading. [[20.00 hours]] But after that attempt to limit political democracy in Ukraine and prevent the legal political party from participating in the elections, there is something else that I really did not expect. On 20 August this year, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine officially registered the UNA-UNZO Nazi Party. The Nazi Party could and can participate in the upcoming elections and the ideology of Nazism gained the official status of ideology recognised and supported by the Ukrainian State. I'm going to quote from the materials that this side has. UNA-UNZO considers the national self-determination and establishment of the regime of Ukrainian national social democracy to be its highest duty, expressed in words: its own truth, power and will is in its own home. In its activities, as clearly stated in the party's programme, UNA-UNZO is led by the passwords of Ukraine for Ukrajinec, Ukraine is above all. These passwords coincide with similar Nazi and fascist slogans from the times of Hitler and Mussolini and conflict not only with the international pact on civil and political rights and with the European Convention on Political Rights, but with the very constitution of Ukraine and incite social hatred, divide people by race, language and religion. They call for the creation of a Nazi dictatorship in Ukraine and the destruction of dissidents. At the same time, after this registration, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, on behalf of the State's leadership and supported by so-called evidence of the security service and the Office of the Chief Prosecutor, continues to work on a ban on the Communist Party, which cannot pass because the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in all the courts that led the Communist parties, which are our partners, have always succeeded. I remind this honored congregation that when the Turkish Government attempted to do so and banned the Communist parties of Turkey, the European Court of Human Rights has tried - I can bring the judicature - that Turkey must allow the Communist Party to do so, and the satisfaction that the European Court of Human Rights has ordered to pay to the Turkish Communist Party was more than 3.5 miles. EUR. For this reason, I believe that the current leadership of Ukraine, although asked for an association agreement, is fundamentally contrary to the fundamental documents of the European Union and to the resolution of the European Parliament itself, particularly in respect of the principles of democracy, fundamental freedoms, minority rights and ensuring the functioning of the rule of law. In order not to say that I only use the arguments I have from my partners in this matter, I will try to explain to you what was the procedure against Mr Sergej Arbuzov. 15 days. 3. After Majdan, a decision was given by the Council of the European Union to freeze all funds and economic resources belonging to persons designated as persons responsible for the misuse of Ukrainian State resources and violations of rights in Ukraine, as set out in the Annex to the Decision. When Mr Arbuzov became aware of this, he contradicted this decision because he found himself on that list that this list was created by the Ukrainian party, which identified him as being investigated in Ukraine for involvement in criminal offences in connection with the misuse of Ukrainian State resources and illegal transfer abroad. The client was informed of this when the registration of his person on the list was made without undue delay after the adoption of the Implementing Decision and this situation lasts until now. The client, i.e. Mr Arbuzov, learned of the decision taken only unofficially from the mass media during April 2014. Nor was he aware of the facts and evidence on which the Council decided to include him on the list. At the time of the adoption of the Implementing Decision, it was not known to Mr Arbuzov that any investigation would be conducted against him, any accusations made, or that he was prosecuted or even convicted. On 19 May, a month after that, a statement of suspicion was issued by the General Prosecutor of Ukraine, from which it is evident that on 7. 5. 2014 has entered in the single register prepared for investigation an indication of the initiation of the investigation of the client, i.e. one month after the Ukrainian party notified the Council of the European Union, i.e. the management of Maidan, that it should be included in the list. And only a month later, they made a decision to start prosecuting him. In a document entitled "Conspicuity Communication', Section 68 and 71 of the Act on the National Bank of Ukraine are subject to infringement. On 22 May Mr Arbuzov therefore submitted a request for a review of the Implementing Decision in the part concerning its listing. The Council confirmed receipt of his request on 27 May last year and to date the client, i.e. Mr Arbuzov, did not receive any results of the review at his initiative. On 16. 6., i.e. two and a half months after that, Mr Arbuzov brought an action before the Tribunal for annulment of the Implementing Decision in relation to him. In view of these circumstances and of the decision to implement the implementing decision, the rights of the client guaranteed under Article 7 of the Charter, respect for private family life, Article 17 of the Charter, the right to property, Article 48 of the Charter, the presumption of innocence and the right of defence, Article 21 of the Charter, protection against discrimination, Article 6 of the Convention, the right to a fair trial and presumption of innocence, Article 8 of the Convention, the right to respect for private family life and Article 14 of the prohibition of discrimination have been violated. From the above, it is clear that Mr Arbuzov was included in the European Union list three weeks before any investigation that he might have been able to find out about in Ukraine was initiated. In view of this fact, it is clear that inclusion on the list is completely unfounded, unfounded, and that it is a matter of liking for the new leadership that took place after Majdan. Mr Arbuzov thus became convinced that his listing was motivated by the current political reality, in which the current flow is prevailing to discredit any person of the Ukrainian government as a whole without distinguishing between the various members of the government. I could continue, but I will stop at violations of the rights to a fair trial and rights of defence, which, in my view, is one of the assumptions of the rule of law. The Council has not verified such an important measure, respectively, before taking such a significant measure. It has not provided any relevant information or evidence from which it could be concluded that the charges against Mr Arbuzov would have been brought, namely participation in any criminal offence or misuse of Ukrainian State resources. To this day, this matter has not been examined. In this respect, I must therefore say that this is a clear purpose for the purpose of attacking Mr Arbuzov and showing that the right to a fair trial is not ensured, namely the law that is related to the principles of the rule of law. It is evident that this matter does not inspire confidence in me that Ukraine, following its request for an association agreement, has taken up individual policies and has at least begun, under the association agreement, to create assumptions for it to function as a rule of law. [[20.10 hours]] And I am talking about Mr Arbuzov, so that I am not to be blamed for defending only my party colleagues. Mr. Arbuzov was not a member of the Communist Party, he was the head of the National Bank, he was a member of the government, and because he wasn't fit because he wasn't involved in any obvious corruption scandals there, he just had to leave and be investigated. For this reason, I must say that the Czech Republic has in the past granted asylum to several members of the former Ukrainian Government, including the former Minister of Industry and Trade, including the husband of the former Prime Minister and others. Am I to understand that anyone who was in those governments before the accession of the current government should lose the right to asylum in the Czech Republic? This is a serious problem for Czech reality. I believe that if someone asks for an association agreement with the European Union, they should demonstrate their actions, not that they are willing to follow and implement the principles on which the current European Union stands. Not that from the very beginning of the association agreement it will oppose these principles, that it will not follow them, and that it will, on the contrary, make it impossible for a normal political scene to function. That everyone's right will be respected, equal rights of everyone, regardless of gender, race, religion, and political conviction. It's obvious that's not what's happening in Ukraine. Since the Prime Minister has not yet arrived, I will keep the second part of my speech on the issue of the implementation of the association agreement by Ukraine, except for its arrival. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u19	Thank you, too. And now Prime Minister Schwarzenberg will perform with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u20	Mr President, honourable Members, we have a very important agreement ahead, an association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. It's been a long time. I remember how it was closed during the former government, too, and it is time for us to finally agree with it in this House. We are already embarrassing all over Europe, because as the only state we are not able to finally vote on this agreement, which is extremely important for Ukraine. Yes, it is true that the economic situation in Ukraine is not good and there are various ills. Nevertheless, it is very difficult to implement reforms and to raise the economy in a country that has been at war for a long time and, of course, it has also exhausted the country's resources. Here it was suggested - a ban on the Communist Party. I am not of the opinion that the bans should be, but I would like to remind you that famine has been ordered from the Ukraine government and millions of Ukrajinec have died of starvation in the 1930s. Children, women, men, old men, everything. We can't even imagine the famine when you look at the numbers. And also how many Ukrajinec were executed during the Communist Party's reign, before, during and after the war. We must acknowledge all this if we want to condemn the Ukrajinec that I may be breaking certain rules here. As I say, I disagree, there's no point in banning the Communist Party. But it's understandable after these crimes, yes, and I'd like to remind everyone today. How many millions, thousands in our country, millions in Ukraine, and millions in the Communist Party's cruelty, died. But we're going tonight. Ukraine is a European country that is linked to Europe of many bonds. We must not forget that here in Prague on Slavic Island at the 1848 convention the Ukrajinec first performed as an independent nation again. I'd like to remind you of that, too. Here we have old relations with Ukraine. Ukrajinec rightly expect us to be helpful, as it is for them access to the European market, help from the European Union, a real question of life. A lot more than it was for us in the '90s when we tried to do it. I would say that it is a question of honor for every Čech to help Ukraine today, even if it is a criticism of the government, that I could agree with in many ways. Yes, it is still a country that is fighting for the perfect democracy, fighting for the rule of law. There are many ailments. Corruption is also widespread, but we should not blame them so much, we are also masters. But it is true that reforms have begun and many have improved. At a time when neighbouring Russia waged war against Ukraine, it occupied a piece of Ukraine and annexed Crimea. We need to realize all this. It is our duty to make this European country, our related, friendly, countless Ukrajinec live and work with us and are the perfect neighbours to help them now. The association agreement is really the most important treaty Ukraine has concluded in recent years. And they negotiated it well. They've already negotiated very hard for Ukraine in the old governments. I remember driving to Brussels. Everyone appreciated the Ukrainian negotiators for actually fighting for their country. It is now up to us, too, to be on the part of the European Union, i.e. including the Czech Republic, they fulfilled their commitments, helped Ukraine and finally approved this association agreement. For, as I said at the beginning, people, we are already shameful in Europe, as we are unable to vote for this association agreement of a friendly country, a relative country here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u21	Now I have two factual points. One Mr Komárek, who is not here, and then Mr Mackovík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the liberty of responding to my previous speaker's speech here about who has ever done such damage under which regime. If we are talking about an association agreement with Ukraine, we will evaluate the current situation that is in Ukraine. This means that the association agreement that is prepared does not respect what the European Union requires for other countries interested in concluding the association agreement. This means, in many cases, Ukraine is not the embodiment of what the European Union wants to have in an accession or association agreement. Ukraine is currently in a Ukrajinec to express its support for Ukraine's current leadership. These are official figures from the official ministries of the current government guarantee in Ukraine. I believe that this situation is also proof of how it works in Ukraine today. [[20.20 hours]] Jaceňuk recently declared in Berlin: We all remember the Soviet invasion of Ukraine and Germany. This must be prevented. If we all remember sitting here, what history was really like in the '40s, it's clear that this is practically just a fascist lie. We are creating the conditions for a semi-fascist regime to become a part of and join the European Union. That's reality, because there's enough evidence for that. In Ukraine, oligarchs continue to control the economy, further stealing, and corruption is the main pillar of the acquisition of power. Political prisoners are part of the current political regime that reigns in Ukraine. That is why I am not surprised, and I am glad that we have been dealing with this issue for so long, and it is certainly no shame that we have been talking about it longer than in other European countries, because the European Union itself has enough problems that it does not know how to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u23	With another factual remark, President Kalousek will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u24	Thank you for the floor. Maybe it's not a factual point, maybe it's just a sigh. Ladies and gentlemen, about 30 years ago, I was about 25 years old, I had every reason to believe that I would live my life in a concentration camp like my parents did. And I did not believe that I could ever be a citizen of a state that is a full member of the European Union. When it happened, I thought it was a miracle, and I basically consider it a miracle to this day. But it would be even less believable for me to imagine that after 30 years in the Chamber of Deputies, a communist would tell me that he knows what the European Union requires. These are the paradoxes, as Václav Havel would have said. I would like to refer to the words of my President, and I would like all of you, on behalf of TOP 09, to ask us to support the association agreement with Ukraine and help a country as friendly as others once helped us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u25	The Minister's point of fact, and after that President Kováčik, is also factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u26	I'm just going to have a quick reaction, because maybe somebody won't remember what was said here, when I sum it up at the end, so I'm just going to have to say it briefly for the three things. It was said here that Ukraine was not in a state in which an association agreement could be initiated. I believe that it is not possible to define some condition in which it is possible to talk about an association agreement. At the beginning, I said that this is not a membership and that Europe is fully aware of the state in which Ukraine is in. From the point of view of the quality of the laws, from the point of view of respecting the principle of democratic regime, from the point of view of problems with corruption and the like. These are even the first things that are being edited in the association agreement. So there are no illusions. But the point of this association agreement is that Ukraine in these areas in which no one denies that the situation is not good enough for the situation to begin to improve. Then it was said that the government here is not as if it is legitimate or that it is not strong enough because it has only 40 percent support. So sorry, at this point in time in the Czech Republic, I represent a government that has a little over 40 percent support. Maybe it's not enough for someone, I quite consider this support that I still think is quite decent, because in the past, 40 percent of the support has not been so obvious. And the fact that 40 percent of people support the government in these very difficult conditions of Ukraine, I might as well argue that it is quite a decent result for what conditions are currently there. And the third argument that was made here. It has been said here that Ukraine is a semi-fascist regime, and I think it must be clearly rejected. Parties, which we could call parties that are semi-fascist or who flirt with these ideas, participated in the elections and lost in those elections. Indeed, the parties who allowed themselves to perform this extremely were defeated. There's just one way to prove it. They don't represent more than two percent. I have been to the Ukrainian Parliament several times, I have dealt with representatives of all political parties. [[The President points out that the Minister has made a point of fact.]] So I'm saying that this statement is false and must be rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u27	Now, with Mr Pavel Kováčik's factual remark, we will continue the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u28	Thank you for the floor. Good evening again. I would like to comment on what Mr Kalousek here has to say to the Communists and the Communist Party that the Communists respect the rules, the Communists honor the agreements, and if we want to respect the rules and we also advocate that the rules be respected, then we need to know something about them. So we also know the rules, Mr President, through Mr President. And I'm sure you'll agree with me that the worst thing we could ever do is to use a double standard. And here, unfortunately, I have the strong impression that the double standard is being used, and my colleague Mackovík merely pointed out that it is not good to use the double standard and that it could sometimes retaliate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u29	I thank President Kováčik for his time. Now in the debate, President Fiala, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u30	Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I am delighted to hear the words of the Foreign Minister Zaorálek defending the association agreement. And, of course, it seems that the only ones who are defending it are the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. But unfortunately, the fact that we are here today, and that we have been discussing the association agreement for so long, is also the result of the government coalition policy. The government adopted a new foreign policy strategy in July. It is interesting that we will not be able to read much about Ukraine and its strategic importance for the Czech Republic. However, the only thing the government strategy mentions explicitly in relation to Ukraine is the promotion of association agreements and comprehensive free trade agreements. However, the Treaty is pointless in the Czech Parliament despite the fact that Ukraine is a long-term target country for Czech transformation policy, despite the fact that the Eastern Partnership is a long-term priority for Czech diplomacy. Diplomacy led by the Czech Social Democratic Party today. And it is really difficult to be a reliable partner in the international field when social democracy, which has a foreign minister and manages this department, is not able to secure unified support for the association agreement probably even in its own membership club and, for example, does not ensure the uniform support of all its Members in the European Parliament. It is regrettable and it is also the co-responsibility of social democracy that we are today one of the last countries that has not yet approved the treaty, as has been mentioned here. We are in a community of traditional opponents of Russian influence in Europe, such as Greece or Cyprus. But the completion of ratification would be a very important signal for the international community that Ukraine did not find itself in a geopolitical vacuum, among other things, because the implementation of the association agreement is not in line with the membership of the Russian Eurasian Union project. The Treaty can, of course, also contribute to the long-term increase in the strategic value of Ukraine, which has been called into question by the agreement of Western European consortiums with Gazprom to increase the capacity of the Nord Stream pipeline. The non-approval of the association agreement for what I said is not only a parliamentary dispute and the approval of the KSČM, but also one of the symptoms of a certain shift of Czech foreign policy towards the east and the inability of the current government to lead Czech diplomacy in a consistent manner and to ensure enough support for this in its own ranks. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of some of the things for which the adoption of the association agreement is important, but it also refuted some of the claims made by KSČM Members. [[20.30 hours]] As I said before, not approving the association agreement is a bad signal not only for Ukraine, but above all it is contrary to the interests of the Czech Republic. The Association Agreement itself does not guarantee Ukraine's implementation of any fundamental social and economic reforms, reforms of the judicial or judicial system and consistent anti-corruption measures. It is not a guarantee, but it can be a significant stabilisation framework. The Czech Republic is a country where roughly 150,000 citizens of Ukrainian nationality live today and, in the case of economic, social and other instability of Ukraine, the Czech Republic will be the natural objective of increased migration. This would significantly deepen the crisis caused by a massive refugee tide from the Middle East and North Africa. Ukraine has also long been one of the priority countries of the Czech export strategy. The Association Zone creates a comprehensive free zone of trade - an association agreement, sorry, it is already evening - it creates a comprehensive free zone of trade with the European Union and thus supports and protects our investments and our exports. If I were to summarize this, the association agreement - and at least this has already been indicated - does not in any way mean the membership of Ukraine in the European Union, but does not do any homework for Ukraine in quotation marks that Ukraine has. Every reasonable person knows that Ukraine is facing a difficult path of reform in the coming years. The association agreement won't solve itself. For these reforms, Ukraine must find strength and support primarily at home. However, the Association Agreement can help significantly, may be one of the motivations and may be a kind of helping hand that we are giving. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the Ukrainian reform process, as it is called for here, of course, we cannot guarantee from here, but what we can do is stop finally throwing sticks at Ukrajina. And whoever doesn't want to put the Ukrajina down, wants to give her a chance, so vote for the Association Agreement today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u31	That was Chairman Petr Fiala. We are continuing the debate. Mr Leo Luzar duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. At the beginning of my performance, I would like to perhaps slightly correct the thing that sounds here. Currently, Ukraine is not without ties with the European Union. That's not a point zero, and we're giving that hand to the Ukrainian people and we're saying, "Come to us, we want to help you." Because the cooperation of the European Union with Ukraine was already established in 1998, when Europe expressed this helpful step in the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement to Ukraine and put its hand to it. I repeat, since 1998, Ukraine has been able to take steps to bring it closer to the European Union and to the standards that we demand and which association agreement has been written in the Code. The Association Agreement, which was proposed in Paris in 2008 as appropriate - and, as it says, a new generation of agreements - as an appropriate instrument for moving the European Union more eastward, is also being talked about by the Eastern Partnership, will allow the European Union to penetrate markets that have been, say, in another geopolitical interest so far. I am talking, of course, about Russia in the first place. In 2008, negotiations were opened between Ukraine and the European Union. I would like to point out here that Ukraine did not remain completely economically alone in the world either, because it entered the World Trade Organisation in 2007. The new comprehensive ambitious agreement, as described in these association agreements called the Eastern Partnership, states: Including the creation of a deepened and comprehensive free trade zone. This is a concrete way of using the dynamics of relations between the European Union and Ukraine with a focus on promoting fundamental reforms in recovery and growth, governance, sectoral cooperation. For Ukraine, the agreement is also a programme of reforms based on a comprehensive programme of reconciliation of Ukrainian legislation with European Union standards, to which all partners of Ukraine can join and which they can also focus their assistance. Here I draw attention to the dynamics of relations which, unfortunately, Ukraine does not, in my opinion, meet with the European Union. And I'm alerting you again to the date of 1998. Of course, an excursion to history also means talking about the fact that President Janukovyč, who is still legally elected, prepared this agreement and who is accused of being a friend of Russia and that the abolition of the agreement should be seen as a step of Russia. Here I think it was prepared by a president who was probably rooting for Russia when he applied for asylum. It is wrong from the very point of view that the original agreement in Russia would be a problem. I'm sure she's also been involved in the preparation, and at least she's been informed of it since her, as she claims, coworker here. Of course what happened to the so-called. Maidanu, i.e. When the government of Ukraine - it says here in Vilnius - suspended the ratification process, suspended the approval process, triggered a wave of unrest. It is common for us to say that Ukraine has risen against Janukovyč and has overthrown him. I think that over the years that have passed, we know enough arguments here that what happened on Maidan wasn't a revolution. And if anyone wants to compare it to 1917 -- I'm sorry about November 17th -- so that I wouldn't be on my home soil, and I wouldn't be heading to that revolution in October November, as it was deliberately said here, then November 17th was a little bit different from what happened on Majdan. [[Laughter from the right]] And I don't think anybody's gonna deny it. What we're issuing for the entire Ukrainian revolution was a really armed struggle. And to this day, Ukraine owes an explanation to the world, who fought against whom and how it fought, who first started shooting, who armed troops and fighters who fought there. I would like to draw attention to the European Commission's speech - and I would point out that before the events in Maidan. The Commission considers that the objectives set out by the Council in the negotiating directive have been achieved and that the draft agreement for the Union is acceptable. In the meantime, it has been almost ten years, seven years. And I'm not sure that today the Union would say the same thing if it had the opportunity to re-evaluate the acceptance. Since the fundamental value of the treaty is to strengthen cooperation in the area of justice, freedoms, security in order to strengthen the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, it creates conditions for closer cooperation in other areas of common interest. I think we know enough arguments to be able to quite rightly doubt the possibility of fulfilling these words in Ukraine. I would like to stress that the agreement provides special attention to the rule of law and strengthen judicial authorities and procedures. These are the foundations of European law. And if any state wants to accede to these rights, it should do so, not wait for it to sign, and then I will only take steps to be called the rule of law. It would probably be all the more interesting, because of course this agreement also has its evaluation elements - the agreement contains an updated institutional framework covering cooperation and a forum for dialogue from the highest level to expert subcommittees. I assume that the European Union has set up these subcommittees, which regularly evaluate the functioning and preparation of a comprehensive state that asks for association. Here I would ask the Minister what are the interim outputs from these committees of committees and subcommittees of the European Union, which should monitor the state of Ukraine's preparation for the association agreement during its ratification. [[20.40 hours]] Please note that the European Union will also set up a functional independent body responsible for State aid control. I think that what is happening at the moment in Ukraine, in my opinion, we do not have all the information that Europe should, when faced with ratifying this agreement, make available to us from evaluating the current process. Of course, this agreement was also an agreement, a special provision on transparency and dialogue with civil society. I think that dialogue with civil society should take place across the spectrum and that political parties also belong to civil society, there are various movements, citizens who can also express an opinion that does not like the government infrastructure and the structure of Ukraine. I am talking about infrastructure on purpose because I consider Ukraine to be the government of the oligarchs in my precisely managed infrastructure, which has nothing much to do with democracy. There will certainly be specific comments, and I will therefore avoid them. I would like to quote some information from the preamble to this Treaty. They are committed to establishing close and lasting relations based on common values, namely respect for democratic principles, the rule of law, order and governance, human rights, fundamental freedoms, including the rights of persons belonging to national minorities, the prohibition of discrimination against persons belonging to minorities and respect for diversity and human dignity, as well as commitment to the principles of the market economy, which will facilitate Ukraine's participation in European policies. Every word in that sentence would be able to disprove here, even the market economy, which is based on free competition, and not on oligarchic agreements. I am no longer talking about human dignity or minorities. Personally, I wouldn't want to be a homosexual in Ukraine. This public statement would probably cause my lynching in Ukraine. I would also not like to be a member of a minority whether Russian, whether Hungarian, Moldovan, from neighbouring states, Belarusian, because minorities are being oppressed by state in Ukraine and denied the possibility to function. Volyně Čech could talk about it here. Among other things, the latest information refers to a five-fold increase in applications for return to the Czech Republic. Although the Czech Government initially denied this through its ambassador and claimed that it did not register such things in Ukraine and that they were individuals, the latest information forced her to correct her opinion. Another point in the preamble is that they are determined to reaffirm their commitments, to fight the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, their means of delivery, to cooperate in the disarmament and control of weapons. Ukraine has become perhaps one of the largest exporters of its weaponry, and now it needs money for it. Industry is not working, and Ukraine is very massively supplying its weapons to the entire world arms trade market, which is why it also lacks weapons on the domestic market. As a result, Ukraine's requests to support the supply of weapons are also made. Convincing Ukraine of the need to implement the political, social, economic, legal and institutional reforms necessary to implement this Agreement effectively and to support these reforms in Ukraine decisively. I must say whether the European Union really believes that it is able to fulfil these values by its action in Ukraine by signing this agreement. New economic relations between the parties, in particular the development of trade, investment and the promotion of competition - these are the decisive factors of this Treaty. The latest economic results speak in the forecast: the decline of the Ukrainian economy by 13.5%. Paradoxically prognostics say that in 2016, or next year, the growth should be 2.5. I consider that a pretty significant miracle if the prognostics come true. Energy security is one of the other points facing the European Union. From this point of view, I draw attention to the problem of Ukraine being nuclear. Ukraine has nuclear power plants. Ukraine has the potential to function energyally at a pretty advanced level. Unfortunately, the state that is currently in Ukraine is suppressing security quite strongly and will be quite a great burden for the European Union to bring Ukraine's energy to European standards, because this can directly endanger the energy of the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, there is now an effort to defend the nuclear future of the Czech Republic before the public. They are not talking about Austria and other Nordic states. Germany also reduced the production of nuclear power plants. If Ukraine enters this with its only option to operate through nuclear power, but with its security regulations that do not conform to European standards, it will be quite a big problem for the Czech Republic to say that the European energy concept and the European core are safe, if we consider Ukraine a close state, in the future the state of the European Union. I would like to talk about the objectives of the political dialogue resulting from this agreement. The Parties will further develop, strengthen mutual political dialogue in all areas of common interest. This will help gradual convergence on foreign security policy issues. Here I would like to point out that the Ukrainian party has quite practically pointed out how political dialogue in practice means banning the entry into its territory of one of our senators, who has come to see how democracy works during the elections in Ukraine. In my opinion, this does not testify to political dialogue. Strengthen cooperation and dialogue between the Parties in the field of international security, crisis management, in particular in order to address global and regional challenges and key threats. There is a key threat in Ukraine, a regional threat. We are all watching and we know that, but we also see how Ukraine informs about what is happening in the field of combat, how it works. In my view, the contradictory information Europe has, which Europe receives from Ukraine, does not at all testify that Ukraine is seriously committed to strengthening cooperation and dialogue in this area in order to inform Europe, its partner, about the real and real situation in Ukraine in the full and timely use of all diplomatic and military contacts between the Parties, including appropriate contacts in third countries within the OSCE. Here I am referring to the case of our diplomat, a man from the Senate who had diplomatic authority and was designated persona non grata and is blacklisted by Ukraine so that he cannot, I don't know what to call it, return to Ukraine as an observer. Maybe if we sent him there officially. I really don't know. Another thing from this point of view, and I am talking about informing Europe, is what our media is publishing. And I think our media market is no longer a media market that could be called left-wing? I guess so. In my opinion, ownership changes and structures in the media have long since spoken of the fact that it is far from the left and rather defends the interests of the right and interests, if I use the term oligarchs, we have spoken about them in Ukraine. I guess the problem's with us too. They publish that Russian investigators say something about the Prime Minister of Ukraine and his military history. It would also be worth knowing what the government's structure looks like, what the people in that government are and what history they have, if they offer guarantees that the current government of Ukraine, I do not want to touch the people of the countryside, I firmly believe that they are very decent and hardworking people, there are guarantees that it will work. The European Union also has some security strategy and standard. The European Union is trying to make peace and is fighting for that peace. And we want to associate a country that claims and has its new military doctrine that Russia is the main enemy. Europe does not have a statement of this type in which it would mark a direct country as its enemy. By associating with this country, that is, Ukraine, Europe could also take on this and say that for Europe, because we have an associated country, Russia should be an enemy. And I also consider this to be a pretty big historical mistake, especially on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of our republic. [[20.50 hours]] I think I have already informed the honourable Chamber of Deputies enough that this association agreement is only a certain attempt by the European Union to make more economic progress on the Eastern markets, and I will say this openly, perhaps to torment a little Russia. Please note that this agreement has 3 426 pages of the Czech text. This agreement, I do not know which one of you has read it, I assume that the Minister, perhaps colleagues of the foreign committee, is touching significantly more areas, and perhaps quite interesting is the passage devoted to automobileism and car imports within the protectionist market. As an economy that is largely dependent on car production and exports, we should read with interest how much this association agreement will allow us, or rather will not allow us to export to Ukraine and how much this will help our industry. Now, if I may, I will be done, I will be able to speak further and, if necessary, join the next debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u33	I thank Mr Leo Luzar and now, in the order of Mr Jiří Valenta. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine is a beautiful country, many Ukrajinec are also personally known and are also my friends. Ukraine, however, is also one of Europe's largest states, and therefore logically also a large and unsaturated market, which can and also wants to obtain the European Union for the economies of its countries. Certainly, the adoption of the Association Treaty of the Czech Republic and Ukraine should also become an important part of a number of means leading to the connection to these markets. The effort is remarkable, but not, in my opinion, quite appropriate and timely at the moment. Unfortunately, the right moment for such in the future has not yet come. In this respect, I do not fully agree with Minister Zaorálk. It's really about that moment. About the right moment. Now let me briefly explain why. I'll start a little bit more extensive, but you don't have to worry about me talking for nothing, long and so-called. Out of order. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just an economic market inviting goods overflowing Europe to this kind of unsaturated Ukraine, but a necessary respect for today's geopolitical situation. I will begin this way: Bismarck said at his time that Russia could be a superpower, only with Ukraine. And perhaps that is why Europe, represented and defended primarily by the European Union, is now finally trying to rid Russia of the fear of Russia's power position. This fear is not only skimmed but, in particular, strongly supported by subversive activities by the United States, which at no cost want to acknowledge Russia's natural tensions with Ukraine. But why am I stressing the word "natural" now? This is why, for example, 8.5 million people claim Russian nationality in Ukraine, which accounts for almost 18 percent of the total population of Ukraine. However, these destructive activities could soon follow a military attack by the Russian Federation itself, even in a nuclear way, as we sometimes have the honour to hear from some of our militants. And please be careful with that. A lot. There would almost certainly not be a winner in such a conflict. The days when only swords were fought are irretrievably gone. But this may be something that can be trusted by a deliberately exaggerated catastrophic scenario, because our transatlantic model and ally in one person has proved in recent decades that it feels like an unlimited master on this planet. A cruel struggle for the resources and territories associated with the genocide of the local population, all carried out in a new and sophisticated way, for covering the symbiotic media, but otherwise everything as if cut out or copied from the time of the conquest of their own continent. After all, the very busy problem of today's months, weeks and days - migration - is also one of the consequences of the application of modern-day large-panish politics on our planet. What can now be said about what Petr Hájek describes in detail, for example, and what we naturally all know that NATO has recently conducted a seemingly inconspicuous military operation on Russia's borders, a military exercise, if you will, called Atlantic determination. The U.S. troops that participated in it entered our territory shortly thereafter. The operation from which they returned to Germany was said to have been remarkably similar to a plan implemented in 1941, starting with the transfer of additional US military forces to the Baltic Sea area. On the pretext of protecting Eastern Europe from "Russian aggression" more than a hundred Abrams and BTR Bradley tanks crossed Latvia. And this parable of Hájkův, though each of you may think anything of him, is not so much from the point of view and is not completely rejected in our society. In February, a similar motorized military unit was deployed to support Estonia in the city of Narva. The American flags on the tanks were fluttering only 300 metres from the border with Russia, a clear military provocation. But I don't want to turn so far away from today's topic, which is the association agreement with Ukraine, although my previous comment confirms that both aspects, i.e. signing this association agreement and anti-Russian demagogical madness, are relatively closely linked geopolitically. In this context, I would like to point out that I am convinced, and everyone can also register if he wants to, as the European Union's hawk wing intersects with all Member States, the Czech Republic is not excluded, he is trying to harm Russia at every moment of his activity and to put his dog's head everywhere and in everything. In this climate, it can then be very easily overlooked that Ukraine's current political representation leads not only to economic decline, but unfortunately it focuses on it and brings it closer and closer to a much more painful civil confrontation than we see in the present days. As I have already put forward in the introduction, I fully respect Ukraine and its population, I also respect the free will of its citizens, but I regret to say that, in this sense, the current political regime in Ukraine is not entirely democratic for me, that is, one that would allow me to use the elements of civil liberties to all citizens or civil groups, and even if I were to vote between the designation of the democratic regime and the regime with pro-fascist elements, and that has already fallen here, I would personally be leaning towards the second version. A company where I am. there is an official ban on democratic political parties, lynching or scandalizing their representatives and members, in some cases even Members, cannot yet be part of the advanced European culture for which we are all trying to consider the European Union, in this case the association agreements, but above all the Czech Republic. Hundreds of our countrymen who want to return from Ukraine in the last few days still confirm my beliefs. At the very end of my contribution, allow me one more purely personal message, namely the political representation of Ukraine, which reads: Unfortunately not from me yet, but I believe that you will certainly work on the deficit of democracy in the leadership of your beautiful country. Then I will gladly raise my hand for your country in the ongoing process of European integration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u35	I thank Mr Jiří Valent. Pavel Kováčik came forward with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I see that not all of the attention is paid to the speeches that are being said here, and I think that is a shame, because this is indeed above other serious ones. Therefore, at this point, allow me to make a procedural proposal to suspend this item by 6 October 14th of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u37	Thank you. I will vote on your proposal without debate. I'll check you out, I'll ask you for a new registration, please log in with your I.D. cards. As soon as the number of people is settled, I will vote on the proposal. I'm gonna make sure no one says I didn't invite him to the vote. [[Rush in the hall.]] We will vote on Pavel Kováčik's proposal to suspend this item by 6 October. I've started the vote on order number 96 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 96, from 128 present for 29, compared to 96. The motion has not been accepted, we will continue. Mr René Číp, who is duly enrolled in the debate, has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u39	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the House for peace. If you have decided that you want to continue this discussion, you have failed to comply with the proposal for interruption, please calm down and hear the speeches of each speaker on this point. Who wants to discuss something else, please in the foyer. Thank you. Proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u40	Thank you, too. I have been acting for several times to ratify the Treaty between the European Union and Ukraine. I have repeatedly drawn attention to the various pitfalls that this ratification brings to us. Yet today we have come to the final stage of this international treaty. Therefore, I will try once again today to sum up all my motives as to why I believe it is not in our interest to approve this treaty at present. Let me briefly summarize in the introduction the developments in Ukraine since the break-up of the Soviet Union. In 1990, the Council of Ukraine declared the sovereignty of the country, and independence was officially declared on 24 August 1991 in the collapse of the Soviet Union. The Declaration of Independence was confirmed by a referendum on Ukraine's independence of the same year with the support of 90 percent of the voters. The transition to a market economy that was not accompanied by deliberate control of economic operators, the breakdown of the planned economy and, above all, the inability of politicians to implement real economic and political reforms all led to a downturn in the 1990s, and even the agony of the economy, which began to recover only around 2000. The first president was Leonid Kravčuk, who was replaced by former Prime Minister Leonid Kučma in 1994. A new constitution with a half-Presidential system was approved in 1996. Kučmův's political orientation was largely pro-Russian, but it has not long been principled on this issue. After the presidential election at the end of 2004, there was an unarmed oranžový Revolution in the country, triggered by the disapproval of a part of the public with the victory of a pro-Russian candidate, Prime Minister Viktor Janukovyč. Janukovyč was accused of electoral manipulation and the Supreme Court of Ukraine ordered the election results to be annulled. In repeated elections, his pro-Western opponent Viktor Juščenko won. The Orange Revolution pointed out a very fragile link between the pro-European western and pro-Russian eastern parts of the country. After the political crisis in April 2007, when President Juščenko dissolved Parliament, announced early elections and attempted to take control of the Ministry of Interior forces, the situation calmed again in May. Early elections were held on 30 September 2007. The largest number of votes in them was won by Janukovyčův's Party of the Regions, followed by the Bloc of Julija Tymošenková. After long negotiations on 18 December, Prime Minister Julija Tymošenková was elected, whose block formed a coalition with Juščenkův Our Ukraine. In Parliament, however, it had only a narrow majority, which fell apart on 6 June 2008, when two Members came out of the coalition. The government of Julija Tymošenková finally fell on 16 September 2008. This triggered a new political crisis, which Prime Minister Tymošenková declared outdated at the beginning of December 2008, when a coalition of BJuT and Our Ukraine was restored with the help of Volodymyr Lytvyn's block, even though part of Juščenkův's Our Ukraine considered the contract invalid. In 2010 he won the presidential election, this time and according to opponents rightfully, Viktor Janukovyč with 48 percent of the votes. The party of the regions thus obtained not only the chair of the Prime Minister and the chair of the one-chamber parliament, but also the post of President. Even though Janukovič presented himself as a strong pro-Russian candidate, he finally managed to bring Ukraine closer to the European Union, as it seemed as early as mid-2013 that Ukraine was heading towards signing an association agreement with the EU. There was hope that Ukraine would draw significantly closer to future membership of this organization, but at the same time it could become a bridge between the East and the West with its good relations with Russia. However, everything changed after the decision of the democratically elected President Janukovyč and, in turn, the Ukrainian government, which, just a few days before the upcoming Eastern Partnership summit in Vilnius, suspended on 21 November 2013 in view of the difficult financial situation of the country of preparation for signing the association agreement with the European Union, since Janukovyč called this agreement a disadvantage for Ukraine so far. Only the day after that, on Friday 22 November 2013, Kiev and the western part of Ukraine flooded a wave of demonstrations. Before Christmas 2013, up to 200,000 people met at the largest demonstration in the main square in Kiev, and a series of protests, known as Euromaidan, also took place in some other Ukrainian cities. If we realize that Ukraine has about 43 million inhabitants, it was really a handful of people. In December 2013, the European Commission, an EU executive body, refused to provide Ukraine with a multi-billion-dollar package of assistance in exchange for signing the association agreement. This is probably not such a problem for the European Union nowadays, and Ukraine would subsidize. In January 2014, the situation began escalating after the rebels used firearms against law enforcement forces and the first dead appeared on the streets. Since 18 February 2014, riots have already grown into armed clashes, and President Janukovyč has fled after failed negotiations with the opposition - here it must be stressed despite the participation of foreign ministers Germany and France - and other dramatic events on 22 February from the country. In response to the events, pro-Russian activists demonstrated to support Janukovyč in the east and south of the country, the so-called Antimaidan. In Donetsk several tens of thousands of people met for this purpose at the end of February, and so far autonomous Crimea has sought complete separation from Ukraine. On 16 March 2014, a referendum was held on the independence of Crimea and subsequent association with the Russian Federation. [[21.10 hours]] This referendum in Crimea was declared in accordance with the valid Constitution of Ukraine, which allowed this. In this referendum, voters voted by absolute majority for independence in Ukraine. The Crimean Parliament has therefore declared on 17 March 2014 an independent sovereign State called the Republic of Crimea, which immediately thereafter requested entry into the Russian Federation as its new entity. On 25 May, presidential elections took place in Ukraine. However, they did not take place throughout its territory. The winner was Oligarch Petro Porošenko. The prorussian unrest in eastern Ukraine, which erupted after the overthrow of President Janukovyč, escalated into armed conflict between the Ukrainian Government and forces in Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republic. Due to combat operations, more than 730 thousand people fled from eastern Ukraine to Russia only until 5 August 2014. There has also been a ban on the Communist Party of Ukraine. However, this ban is unconstitutional because the party decided by its decree the Minister of Justice, who is not entitled to do so. The Communist Party of Ukraine continues to function and prepares for elections. Moreover, this is a clear parallel with similar developments in Germany after Adolf Hitler's rise to power. There they also banned the Communists after the fire in Reichstag. Fascinating ideas are very similar and have not changed their ways after 80 years. An example of this can be called. a humanitarian burning in Odessa, which is considered an oxymoron, as well as, for example, the humanitarian bombing of Yugoslavia. And in this chronological account, I could go on and on and on. However, I believe that I have already briefly summarized what it was like and is the situation in Ukraine after the collapse of the Soviet Union. In one word, it could be called extremely unstable or unstable. If we return to the development of Ukraine's economy after independence, we must say again that its current GDP as perhaps the only one of the countries of the former Eastern bloc today does not reach even the figures from the time before the collapse of the Soviet Union and is expected to fall further. Despite the fact that Ukraine never had to pay the market price for important raw materials such as oil and gas, it had more favourable conditions with Russia. And I am not talking about the fact that Ukraine has often not complied with these conditions and accepted its commitments, but it has not paid for them. According to the latest data, the Ukrainian economy deepened its decline in the first quarter of this year to 17.6% of 15 percent in the previous quarter. According to the IMF, the overall decline this year is estimated to be 5.5 percent. No positive news, then. In March, Ukraine received the first 5 billion from the International Monetary Fund. dollars, about 12 billion. Crowns. In four years it's supposed to be 17.5 billion. dollars and total aid, including savings from the restructuring of Ukrainian debt, should be 40 billion. dollars. In the explanatory memorandum of the Association Agreement with Ukraine, it can be found that implementation will cost Ukraine another 104 billion. The dollars Ukraine doesn't have, and it's not clear where it's coming from. As far as the Crimean problem and the Constitution are concerned, it should be recalled once again that when Ukraine declared independence in 1992, it was declared that Ukraine would be a neutral state forever. This was implemented in 1996 in the Ukrainian Constitution. So, in 1994, when Ukraine was guaranteed its borders, neutral Ukraine was guaranteed, but Ukraine, when it began to speak against the constitution in 2008, about joining NATO, acted completely contrary to the constitution, and the constitution became an irrelevant document. This can be described as completely ignoring the law, because on the one hand, I deny and bend my own constitution, and on the other hand, I require that others do not act and deny them that right according to the Constitution in force and the possibilities it gives. The Zakarpathian Rusín also began to report their right to autonomy - an area that was part of Czechoslovakia between the world wars and the Ukrainian SSR was connected after the end of the second. In their demands, the Rusín refer to the 1991 referendum, in which the large majority of the people of Zakarpatsk voted for autonomous status. But Kiev never admitted to Zakarpatsk. In April this year, representatives of national minorities - the Rusín, Maďar and Rumun - formed the Assembly of Carpathian Nationals in the West of Ukraine to unite efforts to enforce their minority rights. The organization reportedly brings together about 90 percent of the people living in the westernmost part of the country per million inhabitants of the Ukrainian Zakarpat region. As regards the recent development of the conflict itself in the east of Ukraine, it is now noted that it has driven 879 thousand people abroad, as the UN claims. Another 1.3 million people forced to leave their homes are refugees in their own country. According to UN estimates, about 5 million people in Ukraine need humanitarian aid. On Thursday, 4th. 6th of this year, Ukrainian President Petro Porošenko warned of an extensive invasion in parliamentary speech. He admitted that the Ukrainian army deployed heavy weapons to repel the last offensive of the separatists in Marina. These, according to the Minsk agreements, should have been withdrawn from the ceasefire line. Supposedly, a 122 and 152 mm howitzer should be used. In all of this, we learn from Ukraine that former Georgian President Michail Saakašvili, a politician who is now prosecuted in his own country for abuse of authority and thus lives in exile, became governor of Ukrainian Odessa. The irritation to Kyjev's surprising decision also took place in Tbilisi. The current Georgian President Georgi Margvelašvili sentenced the predecessor for accepting Ukrainian citizenship, giving up Georgian in his view. According to Ukrainian commentators, for Saakašvili, whose application within the Ukrainian administration is long-term speculation, Odessa can only be a transfer station. After all, it is quite clear that for the Georgian ex-president, the Gubernátorian post is not a dream base, written by Ukrainian journalist Sergej Rudenko. The style of political work of Michail Saakašvili was always in presenting every threat, whether military or political. But nowadays everyone knows it's just somebody who's a fake. I won't speculate by whom, but I think it's more than obvious. According to current information, President Petro Porošenko was also very shocked by the current events in Kiev and the wave of violence associated with the rise of right-wing forces. Three members of the National Guard were killed in front of Parliament during the explosion during the demonstration, and another officer remained in a coma. There were 140 people injured. The explosion was allegedly caused by a grenade explosion. Porošenko called this attack anti-Ukrainian action and demanded that all organizers and political leaders bear full responsibility. The demonstration was organised as a protest against a plan to increase the autonomy of separatist enclaves in the east of Ukraine, which might finally bring peace. According to available information, the explosion was caused by so-called Battalion Zich, a volunteer police formed in Kiev by the All-Ukrainian Association Svoboda, which is strongly right-wing, which sympathizes with the Ministry of the Interior. This makes it clear that the internal situation in Ukraine is not under control, even if we do not count the fighting areas. Of all these and many other reports that are coming at us, the question really needs to be asked whether today is the right time to ratify this association agreement. And, as I have already said in previous speeches, I am not an advocate of Ukraine's future membership of the EU, if the Union still exists, but as a country with which to start talking about it when it solves its problems. [[21.20 hours]] We must assist them in their resolution, but I do not consider this association agreement approved at this time, as the current leadership of Ukraine can also interpret it as a complete agreement with its procedure. At the same time, I again note that we as elected representatives of the Czech Republic are responsible to our citizens for the decisions that we are making. At this point, I myself am not prepared to vote in favour of further Ukraine's accession to the European Union, as I do not now consider this to be a good thing for the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u41	I thank Mr René Číp for his speech. We are continuing the discussion by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Mr. Foldyna will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2005, about, or certainly a year after, Ukraine has abolished visas, I was in Ukraine for the first time and I must say that Ukraine is a beautiful country. I have some very good friends there. Unfortunately, I haven't heard anything about some of them in the last year, because they're not found at their place of residence, nobody knows where they are. The last time I was in Ukraine was two years ago, when I also visited Odessa and the city of Lviv. Odessa was - was a beautiful green town and the atmosphere there was very and friendly and pleasant. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same about the town of Lvov, because there I had a problem with local Ukrainian citizens just because I did not speak Ukrainian and tried to communicate in Russian language. So I've already noticed a history of intolerance to everything Russian or non-Neukrainian in that year, two years ago. The situation in Ukraine as such still looks scary and does not change the truce that the enemy parties have concluded with the start of the new school year, i.e. A few days ago. The war in the Donbass in Luhansk is still up to date. Propagandistically, we are still hearing that Russia should stop supporting the pro-Russian separatists and withdraw its troops and heavy weapons from eastern Ukraine. But the evidence, the evidence, and not just the bullshit about their presence have not yet been presented. The relations of the European Union with Russia and its eastern allies were a key point in the meetings of the foreign ministers of the Member States of the European Union and other senior officials who met in Luxembourg on 4 and 5 September at an information meeting. The negotiations themselves had to come because the European Union must increase its support and interest in Ukraine or prepare for its loss. Not that Russia will take it, but that the Ukrainian government will prove what we know that it is not capable of leading the country itself and that there will be another coup d'état and worse politicians will take on than those who now rule Ukraine. And as we atheists say - god with people of Ukraine, if that were to happen. What worries Ukraine the most now? Is it a free decision of the population of Crimea and its connection to the Russian Federation? I answer no. Is this the continuation of the civil war in the southeast of Ukraine? It must be noted here that the ceasefire seems to violate both hostile parties. Either way, even though the European Union, the OSCE, the UN and actually no one is doing anything about it. Even this is not what worries Ukraine most. Thus, the most urgent obstacle to further negotiations with the EU is not the battlefield, but the Ukrainian Parliament, which seeks to promote a massive package of reforms with alternating achievements. The EU, the European Union, has provided Ukraine with considerable support from the start of the crisis with political and economic reforms. But it can already be said that this was not a good investment. Although Ukraine avoided imminent defaults due to an agreement with creditors that agreed to write off the Ukrainian sovereign debt, which amounts to 18 billion dollars, in the amount of about 450 billion Czech crowns, 20 percent. But that's not enough. The country needs significantly greater funding in order to be able to stabilise the hryvnia and restore its foreign reserves. But where to get them, not to steal them, and to guarantee that they will live up to their obligations? Only an idiot can believe that. Stupid or European Union. Here I will remind you that, since the beginning of the protests in Majdan, only three Member States of the European Union have granted bilateral loans to Ukraine. In total, the European Commission provided EUR 2.2 billion on loans, which means CZK 59.4 billion. That really is not much, and Europe, the European Union, probably knows why it will not provide more. But if the European Union really seriously wants Ukraine's reforms to be successful - and I say here that I do not believe it - then the Commission and the Member States must provide further loans and help run Ukraine's economy. Inability to pay back its debts would be devastating to Kyjev's efforts to push through all important reforms and could lead to political instability. But Kiev, instead of reforms, politicizes with its citizens and with its political competitors or opponents. It forbids political parties, which until recently, until the time of the coup, were parliamentary political parties, and is in pursuit or literally destroying their representatives. Is that Ukraine's current democracy? Maybe so, but it's based on a script written somewhere outside the Atlantic. But is this acceptable to the values on which it is based and built by the European Community? I mean, what I mean is that I don't. Or another example of democracy in Ukraine. At the beginning of August this year, Ukraine published a list of 13 pro-Russian actors and singers whose production will be completely banned on TV, radio and cinemas. The prohibition also applies to French actor Gérard Depardie. You think a bad joke? No. This blacklist was issued by the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture and describes 13 selected artists as a threat to national security. The compositions of these musicians will be removed from the radio waves, allowances to screen movies with banned actors are to be removed in the near future. And what does a French actor have to do with this? Well, he's built a very warm friendship with the President of the Russian Federation Putin, and he's had Russian citizenship since 2013. Ukraine has already banned this French actor from joining the country for a period of five years. Democracy in Ukraine. And now a new pearl of Ukrainian democracy. Yesterday, Ukraine published a new penalty list with nearly 400 companies and individuals on it. Kyjev has assessed as a threat to Ukraine and to journalists who have been kidnapped by terrorists from the Islamic State. And naturally, the reaction didn't wait long for itself. The organization for the protection of journalists and the world media responded this way - I quote: "We are shocked by President Porošenko's return, which also affects international media operating in Ukraine. [[21.30 hours]] To identify journalists as a potential threat to national security is not an adequate procedure. This penalty sheet even undermines Ukraine's interests by blocking information about the political crisis for readers in the world." Those who do not believe can read it on the Press Protection Council's website, an American independent organization based in New York, which has been helping journalists in distress since 1981. The list includes journalists from 16 countries in Europe, the Middle East and Central Asia. They are referred to as the real or potential threat of national interests, state security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Journalists from the world media, such as Die Zeit, LT or BBC, ended up on the blacklist. Among the reactions is the BBC editor, who said it was a disgraceful attack on media freedom. These sanctions against BBC journalists are completely unjustified. The BBC journalists report on events in Ukraine independently and objectively, according to the Foreign Section Chief. He therefore called on the Ukrainian Government to remove them immediately from the list, unfortunately so far, and BBC journalists are thus on the list of undesirables. Two Čech, namely Vice-President of National Democracy Ladislav Zemánek and Senator Jaroslav Doubrava, have also reached the world elite. Senator Doubrava, of course, is even proud to be on the so-called blacklist, stating: "What an honor to be among such respected media. Kyjev may not be interested in learning what is really going on in Ukraine." Even Ladislav Zemánek doesn't worry about putting him on the penalty list. He said, "Honestly, I'm not happy about it. On the other hand, I cannot rule out the fact that I will not see Donbas again in November if I am invited." Kyjev placed both Čech on the penalty list precisely because of their participation in the Donbas elections, which they participated as observers last autumn. Kiev, however, defends his penalty list. According to the Kiev authorities, it is necessary to combat Russian propaganda. Moreover, sanctions are said to be necessary because of the elections that are being made in the autumn in the east of Ukraine. Obviously, there is no need for someone to be sufficiently informed about how the results and the course of the elections are taking place. President Porošenko explained the penalty list as follows: it is an irresponsible decision. Therefore, our response must be firm and clear. In addition to international media, Russian media are on the list, journalists, for example, are banned from Ukraine, and if they already have visas, they will be cancelled. The ban is to apply for one year. In addition to journalists, of course, there are also Russian judges on the list who ordered ties to the Ukrainian pilot, Aeroflot, probably because he is using international airspace, Russian Defense Minister Sergej Šojgu, as well as Chechen President Kadyrov and, of course, hundreds of other companies and individuals. Are these examples - and believe that I could name another series of such nonsense - really the important reforms Ukraine has to go through? I don't think so. This merely indicates that Ukraine is not ready at this time to lurch after its membership or association with the European Union. Although politicians have made it clear that they want to take the democratic path of Europe, human rights organisations are drawing attention to the increasing influence of the extreme right in the country and the increasing power of oligarchs. But let's go back to another major problem, a constant struggle in the southeast of Ukraine. The renegotiated regulations from Minsk to ensure the ceasefire of weapons have proved to be completely ineffective in stopping all fighting. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which monitors events in Ukraine as a foreign observer, reports cases of shelling and clashes practically every day. The increase in fighting intensity, which has essentially occurred recently, has been the largest since the Minsk agreement signed in February. The war in eastern Ukraine claimed nearly 7,000 lives and drove 1.4 miles out of homes. population. And where did she drive them? To the interior of Ukraine, where such a great Ukrainian government rules? No, no. These people have mostly gone to neighboring Russia, the hated country that our foreign policy is constantly forcing us to try to start a war. Yes, it was Russia as the successor state of the Soviet Union, to whom we owe our liberation 70 years ago, and we remembered that a few months ago. The current situation, however, is quite the opposite. If it weren't for the relief convoys from Russia, the local population on Donbas and Luhanska would literally - forgive me for the expressive expression - die. The Ukrainian government treats this area like it doesn't exist. That wouldn't matter if they'd just forget about the area if they'd put a ceasefire in this area. What about our famous European Union? Nothing. There's chatter and bullshit. I was there last week. They had on the agenda that they could solve the Kurd problem, they could solve the immigration problem, but they didn't, they refused everything and instead solve the burning problem of trading seal products. Yes, that is the work of our European Union. Shame to speak for such a union. What does our government say? Nothing. The foreign policy of the government that he represents - well, he represents, the better word will be made by Mr. Zaorálek. He's acting like he can't see anything, and he's just parroting what the United States of America or the European Union is reporting. We don't see any signs of fascism, and let someone tell me that fascists aren't there, and they're not going back to power. I will laugh at him and give him hundreds of photographs and videos, when Ukrainian Nazis and Bandera murderers haunt him, take pictures of themselves with forbidden Nazi symbols, which they have tattooed on their bodies, and now even serve in the Ukrainian army, or security forces. If you look at the photos of some of our reformed communists sitting in the European Parliament, who are the greatest hitters, or our former foreign minister, who took pictures with these people, you can also see the symbols in them. Many of you who are not indifferent to the fate of the inhabitants could see by drumming accompanied by the fire marches of the Nazis in Kiev, Lviv and other cities. Of course, you won't see it on the screens of our public or private televisions that are under the rule of international interest, and censorship simply doesn't allow objective information. But you can see them on public networks. So far so far, although censorship is already beginning to work actively there. Another option in which Brusel could fundamentally help is the use of the United Nations peacekeeping forces in Ukraine. The OSCE Monitoring Mission plays an important role in monitoring arms peace violations and as a gendarme for both warring parties. [[21.40 hours]] But the fear of this gendarme is very small on both sides of the conflict. UN peacekeeping units entrusted with the traditional separation of the forces of both fighting parties, which includes surveillance of the buffer zone between the two parties, would provide a much better intimidating factor and greater stabilisation of conflicts. But does anyone actually want that peace in this area? I don't mean peace that's just a declaration, but real peace that doesn't make children, women, old men die. Peace, that is, that no one dies as a result of the use of weapons. Unfortunately, I don't think so. It is certainly not in the interests of the United States of America that supply weapons systems and military instructors to Ukraine. Anyone who remembers, in this matter, I also intersected the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and he had no idea about instructors. Then he said to me: I didn't have enough fresh information. The instructors work in Lviv. Speaking of the United States of America, has anyone thought about why only Ukraine, Germany, France, and Russia are involved in the mine talks? Why is the United States of America not taking part in this? They don't want this peace in this location? I don't think so. Peace is also not in the vocabulary of President Porošenko, who still calls for war, not only against the population in the southeast of Ukraine, who, as he has said many times, wants to wipe out, but especially against Russia. In this context, he has already done, I don't know, maybe seven, maybe even more mobilisations. It is a good thing that the simple people of Ukraine are of a higher degree of intelligence than their political representatives and do not want war, they reject it. That's why the army has so many problems with the drafts. Thousands of recruits would rather disappear than join the army in deep Ukrainian forests or somewhere abroad. For example, to us in the Czech Republic. Those who were recruited desert at the first opportunity, for only death would wait for them. These recruiters have no military experience and are driven by their Ukrainian military commanders to a literal slaughterhouse. And they're either waiting for a bullet from the front of the Separatists or a bullet from the back of their own generals. I don't even want to talk here about atrocities associated with international trade in human organs. There are dozens of testimony from Ukrainian soldiers who spoke of their friends, who were only slightly injured, in the sense that their injuries were not such as to die, and subsequently learned about their deaths and their bodies are without organs. These are things that are already in front of the international tribunal, and I, as an optimist, want to believe that this will happen someday. Until then, the recruits will rather desert and either join the Separatists, or they'll disappear somewhere behind the hills. Has anyone thought about why they're acting like this? Why are they refusing to fight for their president, their government? The answer is clear. Because they just don't trust them. Dear colleagues, we are the legislators of a free sovereign state, and it is up to us whether we will succumb to the pressure of the European Union or maintain our own healthy, perhaps sometimes common sense, and we will be at the side of Belgium, Cyprus and Greece, who have not yet signed the association agreement, and we will not sign it until the situation in Ukraine is such that we can sign it with a clear conscience that we are not helping fascists and Nazis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u43	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Allow me to state an apology. As of 21.45, Mr Petr Adam apologizes for personal reasons. Before I give the floor to another logged in, two factual points. First Mr. Ondřej Benešík and then Mr. Martin Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u44	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. The Association Agreement does not mean Ukraine's accession to the European Union. The Association Agreement provides room for the European Union to help Ukraine consolidate, to make it a stable and prosperous country that we all want, because, in the interests of not only the European Union, but, of course, the Czech Republic is a stable Ukraine. And if we want a stable Ukraine, we have to help it. By delaying or not approving this association agreement, we do the opposite. A few more notes. There was mention of atomic energy and the atomic possibilities Ukraine has. In connection with the conflict in Ukraine, it is important to recall that the Russian Federation has undertaken to guarantee the territorial integrity, integrity of Ukraine in exchange for Ukraine's surrender of nuclear weapons. Russia has violated this. And one more thing. Czechoslovakia did not free Russia but the Soviet Union from fascism. Although it created room for another dictatorship, it is also good to remember. So the Soviet Union also means Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u45	I thank my colleague Benešík. Now, Mr Martin Komárek also made a point of fact, then with priority rights, President Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely surprised tonight as a supporter of the Association Agreement with Ukraine. I am surprised at how many relevant arguments KSČM representatives have put up with for signing an association agreement with Ukraine. Not only did they put up with the relevant arguments. Some even made up hard. That is, arguments about how Ukraine's democracy is weak and threatened. What is an association agreement? This is an instrument to help Ukraine improve this democracy. So I am very much looking forward to hearing other excellent speeches by colleagues from the KSČM to support the association agreement, such as the previous ones, unanimously we are voting this agreement, which we all need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u47	I thank Mr Komárek and Mr Karel Schwarzenberg will speak with priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u48	Mr President, honourable Members, mir miru. The technical point is that true peace, of course, can only occur when aggression is ended, namely, when foreign troops are withdrawn from Ukrainian territory, whether in the east of Ukraine or in Crimea. After all, as a slow man in this House, the last commemorator of 1945, I remember very well that the soldiers who liberated us who were in Chimelice, so most of them were Ukrajinec. I remember them because they were great guys and we played with them and I asked them where they were from. They were mostly Ukrajinec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u49	Thank you to President Schwarzenberg. Mr Pavel Kováčik now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u50	Thank you for the floor. I will very rarely give the speaker the truth, because there are countless examples in history farther and closer that true peace really occurred only after the aggressor withdrew. For example, true peace in Vietnam did not really occur until the US military left Vietnam in a hurry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u51	Thank you. The commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the end of the Vietnam War also takes place this year. That's what we've been repeating. We are now continuing with Mr Jaroslav Foldyna's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u52	Mr President, Minister, Mr Excellency, Mr Ambassador, my colleagues, I have prepared a statement by the Czech Parliament. I have prepared this statement with great knowledge that I would like to vote in favour of the association agreement. And I would like to express some of the things that I think Parliament, the Czech Parliament, as the Slovak Parliament did, should say, a little bit with pathos to say - you know, my heart is slavic and bleeds when I see people dying on both sides of the conflict, the Slovan are dying for nothing at this moment. Because these people are laying down their lives. And what will change for them if they or they win? When I watched the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, it was very identical in it and it had one Latin proverb divide et impera. So let's try to be constructive, let's not be pejorative. I believe that we could accept the statement of the Czech Parliament, vote on it before the adoption of the association agreement, so that those who have some doubt or wish to express themselves in some way may be able to hear the doubt in this statement and then vote in favour of the association agreement. I would therefore also put forward a procedural proposal that, if I read the draft statement and before voting on the agreement itself, the House would vote on the Czech Parliament's statement. I'll take the liberty of reading it. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic supports the ratification of the Association Agreement with Ukraine as an expression of support for the process of bringing Ukraine closer to the European Union and notes that at this time it is impossible to comment on the possible future membership of Ukraine in the European Union. This possibility may not be addressed until Ukraine succeeds in fulfilling all economic, political conditions comparable to those which all current Member States have had to meet. The European Union requires all Member States to respect human rights, respect for democratic rules, including respect for the rights of minorities of cultural, linguistic and religious. An effective fight against corruption, for the rule of law. Ukraine will only begin to approach the European Union after it has pursued far-reaching economic and political reforms, including constitutional reform, which is a prerequisite for deep judicial reform and the necessary large-scale decentralization and democratic changes in elections, depoliticisation of public administration, energy, public procurement, etc. The need for a significant reduction in the influence of corrupt oligarchs with their private armies, a reduction in the manifestations of extreme nationalism, xenophobia and certain sympathies for fascism and its symbols is extremely urgent. In this, Ukraine deserves the assistance of the European Union, including our Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic believes that the current conflict in the southeast of Ukraine cannot be resolved by military means, but only by diplomatic efforts by the international community on the basis of agreements concluded in Minsk, which must lead to the cessation of all violence and to a stable peaceful solution, particularly through negotiations between the Government of Ukraine, representatives of the rebels and also with the participation of representatives of the European Union and the Russian Federation. In this context, the Chamber of Deputies welcomes the steps towards such an adaptation of the Ukrainian Constitution, as well as the adoption of other legislation that would allow the country to be decentralized in accordance with the Minsk agreements and to ensure the special status of certain counties in Donetsk and Luhan region without endangering the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine in any way. We remind you that agreement is also part of the Minsk agreements to reach agreement on the holding of free and democratic municipal elections, elections throughout the territory of Ukraine, which should be monitored by the OSCE. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic confirms the importance of continuing trilateral consultations between the European Union, Ukraine and Russia on the consequences of the implementation of the DCFTA as well as trilateral consultations on gas supplies. We see this as a contribution to the creation of trust and the elimination of tensions in mutual relations." I therefore give a procedural proposal that, before the vote on the association agreement, we should vote on such a statement that would allow those who doubt the association agreement to some extent to support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u53	I thank my colleague Foldyn. It is, of course, a matter for the Chamber of Deputies, because it is a voteable proposal, as we will decide on it. But after the end of the debate, because it is not a procedural proposal in the sense of interrupting negotiations on the association agreement itself. I now have two factual points - Mr Miroslav Kalousek and Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u54	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, through Mr President, from the KSČM Club and some colleagues from the ČSSD Club, for example, my previous speaker. mít mouth is full of concerns about whether there is enough democracy in Ukraine. Just a certain level of corruption, not too big. And whether the convergence rate is sufficient to even consider Ukraine's association with the European Union. I think ten o'clock tonight deserves an honest word. Just really tell me what you're up to. We don't want the contract because Putin doesn't want it! And we want to be friends with Putin, and we don't want to piss him off by helping Ukraine, even if Putin doesn't want it. Then it'll be fair! Then it'll be fair, then I'll understand. I won't agree with you, but I won't consider you a hypocrite. But please stop training us from democracy, stop training Ukraine from democracy, and stop using proxy arguments just because you're racing to get into Putin's ass early and deep. This is not a dignified debate in this Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u55	That was Mr Kalousek's speech. Another factual point by Mr Martin Novotný. I can't even comment on the facts yet, because if I left the control panel, the meeting would be adjourned. I would certainly be accused of deliberately interrupting the negotiations, but I would really like to comment on a factual point, but I cannot. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u56	Colleagues and colleagues, maybe in other words, I'll say the same thing. Now that I've been watching this place for a long time, it's a remarkable parade of the propaganda machine, but otherwise very capable and sophisticated propaganda agencies from the east. I would just say that, for the rest of the democratic political spectrum of the Czech Republic, regardless of whether we are in a coalition or in opposition at the moment, it is also a big challenge for us to improve both our European policy in the future and to try to improve the European Union's policy so as to allow these sophisticated forces to parasite such propagandist machinery on possible mistakes of this policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u57	That was Mr Martin Novotný. Now, Mr Pavel Kováčik's factual comment. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u58	Thank you for the floor. Just briefly to my colleague Kalousek, what he said here. You know, through Mr President, Mr colleague and others who have similar thinking, we are really proud that we are not anybody's agents - neither Putin nor anyone else's. That we don't have to go to any embassies about our politics, that no ambassador is lying to us for forgiveness about what we have and what we don't have or what we can do and what we can't do. And we are also proud that we have not organized directly or directly or directly through any secret services of any kind any color revolution or Arab Spring, the Orange Revolution, etc., because it is clear to the sun that in most of these and the consequences that we are taking away to this day and for a very long time the whole of Europe will be, we really have nothing in common. We just want, as I said here once today, to make sure that there is no double standard on politics, that there is no double standard on individual countries, that some are still more friendly to us and some less, and that is why we will treat them... For example, in Europe, and now I think throughout Europe - and no matter what anyone says, Russia is also a great part of Europe - to work decent, good interstate, international, interpersonal relations, as well as good business relations. Our economy is an export economy. And even exports to Russia or anywhere else are quite an important part of improving the economic situation of our citizens and companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another point of fact is submitted by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and after that by Mr Mirek Kalousek. [[Member Kalousek corrects: Miroslav.]] Miroslav, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Now, then, Mr Ondráček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to tell your colleague Kalousek that if I go to an embassy from the position of being in a group of friends, after each visit, I will write the classic standard report that I have been to such a visa embassy and send it to the National Security Authority. [[Laughing in the hall]] So I don't have to go there to train, I don't have to stick my head up anybody's ass. Maybe that's what you do where you go to train. But unfortunately, you didn't miss it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u61	Now, therefore, with a factual remark, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u62	Thank you. Through Mr President, I appreciate you, comrades, pointing out that you are really nobody's agent and that you are writing those reports. I think you deserve some code names for that. And you deserve to choose them yourself. If you like Bures, I'll warn you it's already taken. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Or maybe if you wanted Falmer, it's already taken. But I'm sure you'll come up with some, and I think you deserve some.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u63	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u64	I don't know if they say it through the President, but I'll say it out loud. Mr. Kalousek is as rude as a monkey! [[Laughter on the left.]] As soon as you accuse someone of some kind of agent mania. You have such an audacity to speak in this way, you who slyly dragged 150 billion here. Church restitution, which was a legal crime! [[Upset.]] You still have the nerve to talk like that! [[Very emphatically]] How dare you?!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u65	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Herman. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm sad about what I'm seeing here, and I think it's sad for those who are watching what we're doing here, making a mockery of this legislative body. Because what's coming out of the mouth of the Communist Party, that's probably what's called chucke. If they are interested in Ukraine not being fascist, which is certainly not a threat, they should remember August 23, 1939, when the Nazi Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop went to Moscow and with Soviet Foreign Minister Vjačeslav Molotov signed a humiliating treaty between two disgusting totalitarian powers for cooperation. This is the history of communism. If an even greater criminal Adolf Hitler broke this treaty, it was luck for the whole democratic world that these two totalitarian colossals were going at each other. Because according to the Black Book of Communism on account of this criminal regime, 100 million are dead. Those are clear numbers. The Communist regime is criminal, it has always been, and wherever it is in power, it will remain. And if at least a glimpse of honesty about Ukraine is here, I think it is important that beyond our borders there are countries that are close culturally, politically bound by treaties that promote democracy, freedom and the rule of law. Any agreement of this type which strengthens this integration of any neighbouring country should be welcomed. If she's not welcome, there are some very special interests and plans that we were talking about a while ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u67	Thank you. Vice-President Filip is now reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry I forgot my glasses, I'll read something. [[He was coming back for them.]] You know, I'm the one who's most sorry when someone's talking about de-honesting the legislature and lying! I'll read you one of the footage that's part of the bander book. As you know, Stefan Bandera was honored by the Ukrainian state and is marked by a number of current Ukrainian politicians. The footage concerns me. And my family. And what Minister Herman has done here is disgusting! 28 October 1944 middle section Ružomberok - Poprad liberated and put into operation. Purified actions carried out in cooperation with the combat group SS Hauptsturmführer Wittenmayer, which progressed from the east. Third battalion 30. regiment strengthened by artillery, anti-tank grenademen and unit 14. division SS advanced from the west. The group has taken Nish. The deployment of Ukrainian volunteers of the 14th SS division fought well. What are you talking about?! Of course, I have to fix my colleagues too. Yes, Ukraine as part of the former Soviet Union and Ukrainian soldiers as part of the Red Army were those who liberated not only Czechoslovakia but fought in a fundamental way to defeat fascism. And here's the proof of who they refer to. So please don't lie here! Because that's the onset of fascism! The honours of Stefan Bandera and those who challenge him. But it was the Czech nation, the Slovak nation, the Polák that were killed by the bander. And the soldiers who joined the SS Army in Ukraine. Isn't it enough for you to burn český Malín on Volyn? [[upset with emphasis]] And when they renewed it after 1945 in Olomouck as New Malín, you really don't know?! Or do you want to distort history? Do you think we're all fools who succumb to some demagogy?! Because you guys are making up some kind of connection?! And you'll quote from books that, forgive me, aren't worth dealing with at all. Because they don't match the historical truth! [[22.10 hours]] In this respect, I dare say that such demagogy has not yet been mentioned here. This is reality. Yes, Ukraine, Belarus as the most affected states of the former Soviet Union, then the Union Republics, even had the right, and the United States of America, Great Britain, France, China agreed to be part of the UN Security Council as the Union states of the former Soviet Union. Why? Because they were most damaged by fascist Germany. And all the victorious powers and the whole world agreed to that after 1945. And you're here to deny me the history, and you're here to convince Ukrainian Prime Minister Jaceňuka that Ukraine wasn't basically liberated until 1991? What are you signing up for with this statement? This can't be happening! Those dead who fell in World War II, and they were Ukrainian citizens, they were Belarusian citizens, they were citizens of the Soviet Union at the time, and I am not going to examine the reasons, they are what should draw our attention to the fact that it is impossible to accept that fascism and Nazism are growing again here. It is not possible, because then we are releasing the forces that will eventually decompose it to Europe. I am very skeptical of whether we will proceed in this way, whether we are at all able to stop the migration wave, whether we are even able to respond correctly to how Europe's integration itself will develop. If we accept that someone does not have to meet the conditions, and we are willing to admit that any regime can be taken into the European community, we will do well, but in that case we will account for the values that you are so fond of talking about here. I don't have any need, I really don't have any need to say what the Russian side thinks. Plus, I don't think Vladimír Putin is a friend of the Ukrainian Communist Party. Finally, the chairman of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation Gennadij Zjuganov also ran against Vladimir Putin in the presidential election. He was the only one who had the strength to be a worthy candidate. And you're going to be telling me something that's not historically supported at all. I wanted the Prime Minister to answer my question, he didn't show up within ten hours, so I have no choice but to ask the question and ask in a clear way whether we are even discussing it within the association. In 1985, the so-called Yamburg Agreement was signed, where the states - the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan and Ukraine - undertook to pay Czechoslovak debt for the construction of gas pipelines and compressor stations on their territory. The Russian Federation has settled the debt in the past. Ukrainian debt remained at 79.17 miles. American dollars. Ukraine signed another debt repayment agreement with the Czech Republic in 1997, 30. 6. The agreement did not come true. And other experiments in 2004. Which is why I want to ask Prime Minister Sobotka. 13. 5. 2005 - the Prime Minister was the Minister of Finance at the time and asked the Minister of Finance of Ukraine Pinzenik for a meeting that did not take place. In 2007, President Schwarzenberg could already testify to me here because he was Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time, during the reign of President Viktor Juščenko and Prime Minister Viktor Janukovyč, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Nikolaj Janovič Azarov opened negotiations through Czech Partners. And it even came to such an extent that we could negotiate to repay the debt. But that's not what this is about right now. Well, I'm asking. Are we gonna be, excuse me, a fool who's gonna say, "Yes, we don't want anything, we're interested in an association agreement with Ukraine"? And I am not questioning the Prime Minister's discussion, but I want to ask him if they are discussing whether in the future I am not saying now, because that would have completely sunk Ukraine at this point, and it is not my concern, we have the opportunity to return to the 1997 agreement and start discussing that, for example, for the Czech Republic, gas supplies will not be interrupted through the pipeline that was built. Or we are really convinced, as Members of the Czech Parliament, that we will have to buy gas from the Federal Republic of Germany, which has left the whole European Union, that Nord Stream has expanded, that it has agreed with the Russian Federation to buy gas in the north way, and we will just try revers, that is, we will take gas from Germany and we will send it to Slovakia, because Slovakia is even worse off than the Czech Republic. Are we talking about this or are we not talking about it? Is this part of the Association Agreement, or is this not part of the Association Agreement? What are you trying to tell me? Are we going to talk ideologically about whether or not someone's an agent, and we're going to make sure? Or are we gonna lie to each other about the past? Please, we're in 2015! There's a pretty big decision ahead of us. We'll be fighting over the state budget in no time. There's 70 billion in the negative. We live on debt. And we don't want to talk about whether or not gas will go through Ukraine to the Czech Republic and oil to the Czech Republic? And I don't care if he comes from the Russian Federation because he doesn't have to come from Russia at all. It can come from the Caspian region, meaning Kazakhstan or Azerbaijan. And let us be glad that those who are so slandered as they even negotiate after those disgusting orgies in the European Parliament an agreement with Azerbaijan that we will have something to drown here and we will have some raw materials for our chemical industry at all. Or do you really want to go bankrupt?! What is the subject of the negotiations? A normal relationship between two sovereign states. And I ask, "Will we be discussing debt?" Are we going to discuss the principle of inviolability of supply from our suppliers, who can only supply through the pipeline and pipeline, or will we have to hire trucks or trains to do so? Anybody talk about it? Did the Secretary of State talk about this? Did the Minister of Industry and Trade or the Prime Minister talk about it? Who's gonna answer me? And since the Prime Minister isn't here, I suggest we stop the negotiations until the Prime Minister answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u69	I am registering your proposal to interrupt this point and, given that this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. So I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby to come and take this vote. I'm also registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you. I'm gonna ask you to log back into the system. [[22.20 hours]] I will read the procedural proposal that has been made here. I hope I got it right. We will vote on the suspension of this point until the Prime Minister answers the questions put here in plenary by Vice-President Filip. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 97. 134 Members and Members are registered for proposal 29 against 102. This procedural proposal has not been adopted and we are continuing to discuss this point. I'll read the note I received. Today, between 21.30 and 23.00, for personal reasons, Mrs Gabriela Pecková apologizes, and from 21.45 to 23.00 today, for personal reasons, Mr Michal Kučera apologizes and further cancels his apology and Mr Korte is present. Let's keep going. I note a few factual points here. The first point of fact is made by Minister Herman, after which Mr Novotný will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just brief on what was said here about the twisting of history. 33 years ago, I was thrown out of Hluboká nad Vltavou Castle for refusing to distort history, and I was told that I was conducting ideological diversity there, and thanks to the Communist regime I had to join the South Bohemian bakery, specifically the Stecher Mill, where I was then questioned by the State Security, which was then to defend my interests when I was a member of the most revolutionary component. I haven't understood that to this day. So I'd just be very humble about who's twisting history around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u71	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Martin Novotný and Mr Martin Komárek will be prepared with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, through Mr President, one such important experience to my colleague Filip. I took part in this year's commemorative act in the mentioned New Malína in Šumpersko and I am very well aware of the historical context and everything that belongs to it. But what I have been wondering for years is that many years before I attended another commemorative act, a commemorative act involving one of the official representatives of the Russian Federation, and it was many, quite years before anyone in this hall even knew the fact that the main square in Kiev was called Majdan. None of you, except a few insiders, had a clue. And in the memorial act, many years before the Ukrainian events, I am from the mouth of this diplomat, and it was addressed to the Czech war veterans, the mental scheme, with the rise of fascism, with the specific naming of that word fascism, as it sounds in this matter, he heard many years before the actual problems occurred. And that is an extremely important fact for me in that assessment of the whole thing, and I think that the propaganda vision in that sense preceded that reality and it's really sophisticated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u73	Thank you. Mr Komárek, Mr Daniel Korte, is now making a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be extremely serious right now. The history of the 20th century in Eastern and Central Europe was often terrible and people had to vote between very bad and even worse. Vice-President Filip, through Mr President, I do not, of course, condone Stepan Bandera, but to some extent I understand the person who has experienced the genocide of his own nation, which Stalin has cast upon him. You are well aware of the monstrous famine that accompanied the Ukrainian collectiveization, when, according to reliable sources, it is awful, but I must say, just children were eaten by their parents. It was only one man - Stalin. So any Ukrajinec could say Hitler was less evil than Stalin. Again, I'm not sorry, but if we're talking about history, let's remember this. A monstrous famine in Ukraine, who has the only culprit, Džugašvili Stalin. Second point. The Association Agreement does not in any way threaten relations between the European Union and the Czech Republic with Russia, it is nothing against Russia or in any way in any way, it is simply an opportunity to help Ukraine. And I assume Russia wants to help Ukraine too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u75	Thank you. Now, with Mr Korte's point of fact, and after that, President Schwarzenberg. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I was listening to Mr. Falmr's speech, I mean, sorry, Mr. Filip, and I must confess that I was somewhat confused because he spoke for so long that I forgot the beginning, and therefore I did not understand the end. And that's why I'd like to ask him if he could somehow explain to us the difference between fascism and Nazism, because that's the fundamental difference, and they're still confusing it on the left. And it's something else, please. So, in order to make a deal, I'd like him to explain, and I'd be very grateful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u77	Thank you. Now, then, President Schwarzenberg, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Holík. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u78	Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Korte asked the right question. The answer is that fascism is useful, because unlike the word Nazism, which is derived from the word of national socialism, some do not mind. In fact, the deadly ideology was just national socialism, in short, Nazism. It's just technical. Two. It is a beautiful idea that we would agree with Ukraine that they will continue to supply us with gas, but this makes it conditional that the Družba pipeline will continue to operate and will not seem to be cut off from the supply of gas from the Russian Federation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Now, with Mr Holík's point of fact, and if there is no further factual point, then Mr Grebeníček is duly entered into the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u80	Mr President, honourable guests, colleagues and colleagues. I wanted to answer my colleague Novotný, unfortunately he left. So the main square in Kiev is not called Majdan, but its name is Majdan Neprivičnosti, the Czech translation of the square of Independence. [[♪ I'm right ♪ ♪ I'm right ♪]] And to our rare guests, it's, let's just say, weak-minded. It's probably something like me saying in the morning, "I'm going to the Lesser Town."
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u81	Thank you. I note Mr Kalousek's factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u82	Please forgive me, I probably shouldn't react, but it was so stupid that I couldn't let it hang in the air like an opinion. It's not like I'm going small or big. It's the same as saying I'm going to Václavák. And I think if we say we're going to Václavák, then no Pražan, no Čech, no Moravan or Slezan can be offended. Just like I'm going to Zelňák in Brno. That's not an insult. The guy who just spoke here wasn't in shape.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u83	Thank you. Mr Mihola has applied with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u84	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, important agreements deserve proper attention and also appropriate debate. Both are now receiving. It is a good thing that we are looking at this agreement at the angle of history, past and present political situations and across various other levels. However, it is far more important to look towards the future. I would like to make it clear here that the KDU-ČSL is in favour of ratifying the Association Agreement with Ukraine. Our representatives supported it at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs and in the Foreign Committee where it was discussed. As one of the previous speakers has already been mentioned, I also find it shameful that the Czech Republic is among the four last countries of the European Union that have not yet ratified it. It is clear that the approximation of Ukraine to the European Union will lead to its stability. And stable Ukraine is also in the interests of the Czech Republic. An agreement involving both political association and the creation of a free trade zone also opens up new opportunities for political dialogue. On the basis of the agreement, Ukraine undertakes to adopt reforms and respect democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law. I stress this, in particular, in the direction of these accompanying resolutions, whether my colleagues Luzar or my colleagues Foldyna, whom I do not wish to deny effort and perhaps good opinion. But I consider both resolutions redundant. I do not accept that Ukraine is a country full of problems and that it is responsible for many of them itself. It is not worth mentioning all the problems of this country that are based on its complex and often motivated history. However, it is not appropriate for us to advise this sovereign state whether it is to divide peacefully according to the pattern of Czechoslovakia or any other pattern, or to federalize, or to transform itself into a confederation and the like. I, too, prefer diplomatic and peace talks. But I don't really know why Russia should be the main arbiter of further developments in Ukraine. Is it because Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union? Let's get some pure wine. We are witnessing a modern struggle for the sphere of influence. It will be better for Ukraine and for us to get closer to the European Union. The Czech Republic will also receive the signing of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine because it is the fifth largest exporter in Ukraine from all Member States of the European Union and the sixth largest importer in Ukraine. The agreement is an expression of Ukraine's solidarity by the European Union, and hence by us. It is a helpful step toward the earth showing a clear will to approach the West. He's headed there for his historical experience, too. Let's support her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I have here a factual remark from Minister Zaorálek, and then Minister Stropnický reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u86	Thank you. I wanted to respond to some of the questions raised here to the government concerning the so-called Jamborian debt and concerning the supply of gas from Ukraine to the Czech Republic. Yamburg's debt is a debt of about 4.6 billion. It is not just about Ukraine, it is also about Kazakhstan. Of the total of 4.6 billion, it represents more than 3 billion of Kazakhstan's debt, and I think 1.6 represents the debt that is on the side of Ukraine. It was created as a claim related to the construction of mining units, mining infrastructure for mining, the transport of gas from the site in Yamburk. And that's just the money that those two countries owe. For Ukraine, I can say that Ukraine recognises the existence of this debt. It's open to repayment. Of course, she's not likely to be able to repay him right now in the situation he's in. However, I know that the Prime Minister should visit Ukraine by the end of this year, I think in December. And I know that in the programme of the Prime Minister, in his agenda there is also the question of solving the so-called Jamborian debt and the part that belongs to Ukraine, with the fact that we have been making some suggestions for a long time that it could be partially repaid in another way - for example, real estate and the like, because we, for example, have a problem with the Embassy in Kiev, so it would also be possible to negotiate purchase, or form using land and objects that we could obtain in this way in order to settle the Jamborian debt. So we're also looking for ways that wouldn't be a direct payment, but where other forms would be sought to repay the debt. So I can assure you that this question is actually constantly something that is part of our bilateral agenda. Of course, it's the Ministry of Finance's responsibility. But I will also avoid this matter when we deal with the Ukrainian side. And I'm telling you here with certainty that it's also -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u87	Your time, Minister. I'm sorry. [[The minister walks away completely confused from the microphone with the words: Ah.]] You came forward with a point of fact. In that case, there's two minutes for that, and I understand that you're upset, but I really have to measure fair to everyone. Now with priority rights, Minister Stropnický.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u88	Thank you. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like very much to ask that we return to the essence of the matter so as to abandon the amateur and sometimes even grotesque historical excursions, some of them actually have a level of holiday experiences. Let us also abandon the abuse of the dramatic word fascism. There are ideologies that currently use this often in various ideological fights. And above all, let us not cheat on the demonstrational love of the Ukrainian people. This is what we will best show by saying yes to this association agreement, because the Ukrainian people, the one we can all probably stand for, are in the vast majority. So let's not solve some marginal marginal marginal group here and help those Ukrajinec who are so often pathetic about us not making it impossible or difficult for them to reach an association agreement. These people need encouragement, not cadre. If we say no, that means we've multiplied a number of Putinův dervishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u89	Thank you. The first point of fact is made by Minister Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u90	Thank you. I have matured to the Rules of Procedure, and I will finish what I wanted to tell you about the gas supply. As far as gas supplies are concerned, it is appropriate to say here that the Czech Republic is not directly dependent on the supply of gas by the Družba pipeline at the moment. We are buying gas on the sewer market on the Western European stock exchanges, and we are not really dependent on direct deliveries at this time. On the other hand, I am not saying that if the gas had stopped or the energy had stopped flowing through Ukraine, it would of course have affected us indirectly. But I'd like to give you a positive message. On September 11, this year, in the context of tripartite talks between Ukraine, Russia and the European Union, a consensus was found on the conditions of winter gas supply to Ukraine. [[2.40 hours]] Ukraine will receive gas supplies from Russia for a similar discount to other countries, and it is one of the good news I have been talking about now, which has recently come from the negotiations between Ukraine and Russia, in this case here and the European Union. So basically, this thing is being handled fairly positively today. But once again, we should know that the Czech Republic is not really dependent on the supply of the Cooperative today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u91	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Finally! At least I learned something. Thank you, Secretary of State. That means we're acting. I therefore hope that this is a dignified object for the Czech Embassy, because I do not know who you know, but after submitting our Embassy to the Slovak Republic when we split federal property we do not have an embassy and we have been acting since 1992 and we never got to it. If that part of the debt were paid in some way by objects that could serve our embassy, it would be only good and, of course, it would be good if we could also establish a cultural centre and possibly a centre of cooperation between Czech and Ukrainian companies. I finally learned one thing. But I am not satisfied with your answer on gas and oil supplies, Minister. I would really like to know more about this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u93	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Another point of fact is made by Mr Radim Holeček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u94	Shortly and telegraphically, so I don't stall. My colleague, Mr Ondráček, through Mr President. His Russian in Lviv they don't like him for. I don't think they like him there because he's a communist, because commies don't really like him there in Lviv. To Mr Filip through - I would like to emphasise the inclination towards Bander in Ukraine's history. It's just that these people had enough of that communist shit out there that they've gotten in touch with the devil to drive that communist shit out. And I'll tell my colleague Holík one thing. That was a waste of time with that Maidan guy. I've been holding a barricade on Maidan for two days. They carried the dead around me. And today, it doesn't matter if it was called Maidan or Nemajdan. Just explain to these heroes if it was called Wenceslas Square. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u95	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kováčik. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the expression has begun to be used, I would say, a stronger caliber, until insulting each other. I'm asking for a 20-minute recess for a KSČM club meeting to calm the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u97	Yes, in that case, I'm declaring a 20-minute break, which means we'll continue at 23.03 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the break is up, and we will continue to discuss our point. To start with, I'll read an apology. As of 23 o'clock, Mrs Válková apologizes for health reasons. I register - before the break he had a factual remark registered by Minister Zaorálek. [[Gestem refuses.]] He didn't. In that case, Mrs Pěnčíková has a factual point. Let me ask you first to calm down, colleagues and colleagues, so that we can understand each other's lectures. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u99	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I think whoever knows me knows that I'm basically a very calm person. What happened here before the break moved my bile so much that I didn't breathe in 20 minutes, and I get the impression that some of our colleagues are visiting a drama club here, because otherwise I really can't explain it, and I'd like to ask for contact, because I'd like to join. And the second thing I would like to say through Mr President - Vice-President of the House of Filip here called for the rules to be followed. So I'd like to point out to him now that some people obviously don't know what rules are, and they don't really know what rules are. So it's useless work, and it doesn't have to strain itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u100	Thank you. Now duly signed up for the debate is Mr Grebeníček and Mr Šenfeld will be prepared. Once again, I call you to serenity. If you have something important you need to say to yourself, go to the lobby. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the moment of our Velvet Revolution was undoubtedly for many moments of hope and optimism. Some dreamers or dreamers even considered it an era of the end of history. But he didn't come. The history of not only Europe, but the whole world is once again in significant geopolitical motion. We are even unhappy witnesses of a new era of confrontation between the West and the East, especially between the West and Russia. The apparent attempt to push Russia out of Europe now is, in my opinion, a significant mistake, especially when many experts consider the tragic situation in Ukraine primarily as a domestic Ukrainian problem, not a problem between the West and Russia, or even a Ukrainian-Russian problem. However, it is a fact that almost a quarter of a century are already being used by the European Union's Member States and often shamefully exploit the cheap work of Ukrajinec. Those who have long emigrated or left a miserable country for work and better existence. For the same time, financial capital and many companies from the countries of the European Union are feeding on debt, looting and robbing of the populous and wealthy Ukraine. This is probably why not only the individual Member States of the European Union, but also the Union as a whole, have been quite indifferent to how Ukraine, controlled and vacuumed by the corrupt clans, has fallen into ever deeper economic crises. Attempts by the United States and some of their allies to expand and expand their political influence meant no improvement. With the support of the United States and the Member States of the European Union, only repeated rotation of corruption clans in power took place in Kiev. The well-known political illiteracy of Američan, their ruthlessness to the legitimate interests of other countries and nations, has turned merely the dragging of corruption groups into a national conflict. Attempts by Američan and their parties willing to separate Ukraine from ties with Russia, as we well know, have grown into efforts to support and finance the overthrow of President Janukovyč's group. The civil war, which is a disaster for both Ukraine and Europe, was a logical consequence. How else could a Bandera card be drawn, financing a violent confrontation with state power, and then an effort by force, even at the cost of banning the use of Russian language, to pacify the Russian-speaking East of Ukraine. As ex-President Václav Klaus has named it recently, Američan and the European Union, not Russia, are the cause of the disaster. Plans and practical steps of the United States of America and the Hawks of the North Atlantic Alliance to confront Ukraine against Russia and to shift not only the economic and political influence of the powers of the North Atlantic Alliance, but also the military position of the United States of America and the pact to the border with the Russian Federation, that is, I dare say, the path to the endless consequences. [[23.10 hours]] Such barbaric policies and criminal policies cannot help anyone reasonable. It is necessary to make this clear and it must be recalled loudly that such a policy, if we do not stop it, will lead Europe and the world to hell. Now the European Union, recently declared by the Prime Minister of our Republic, is shaking on the ground, and along with it our servilite government of association with the broken Ukraine to the European Union. We are to agree with Ukraine's association without the Ukrainian government and state guaranteeing at least minimum civilization standards, without Ukraine's government ending the celebrations of bander and open manifestations of fascism, without Ukraine's government guaranteeing free competition between political parties and the legal protection of fundamental human rights, including the right to political convictions and rights without blackmail and without pressure to vote freely. The humiliation of an economically disrupted state tolerating fascist tendencies and violence, a state where corrupt mafias rule an undemocratic way, is threatened with unsightly consequences. Ukraine, as a result of the expansion of the North Atlantic Alliance, the United States' ingence, and the European Union's inability to become a source of even greater instability and an even greater security risk to Europe and the European Union than it has been and still is. If the Czech Government had shown at least a basic responsibility to citizens, it would have had to act very cautiously on the association proposal, it would have had to take the view that, without resolving the internal conflict and without at least the basic steps to stabilise political and economic stability, Ukraine could not be assigned to the European Union. If there is talk of security risks in relation to Ukraine as it is today, then the wider context, along with the European Union's papalayas and the governments of the Member States, cannot be forgotten. Today, the European Union is acting irresponsiblely and still fogging not only in the event of the broken, corrupt and mafia controlled by Ukraine. Likewise, the European Union and its dominant powers are still fogging on how to cope with hundreds of thousands of waves of immigrants as they now come to Europe from the outside. At the highest levels of European policy, no one has yet found the courage to name quite openly the real causes and to seek long-term grounds. None of those who decide on EU policy, and indeed the Czech Government, want to admit publicly and in all context that the cause of the immigration waves of Iráčan, Kosovo Albánec, Syřan, and even Afghánec is the aggression of the United States and the expansion of the North Atlantic Alliance, which, in addition to the economic plundering of poor and weak countries, is the path of supposedly fast winning wars, occupations and outside provocated and weapons and money-supported coups, is based on humanitarian disasters of an unprecedented scale. In the context of economic decline and the deepest crisis in which Ukraine is now, it is necessary to note that it will be necessary to invest in it, or even to donate it to debt relief not tens and hundreds of millions, but tens and hundreds of billions of euros. That is not what the European Union seems willing to do yet. I remind you that while the United States was willing to spend up to $100 billion a year on war and the maintenance of occupation troops in Afghanistan, humanitarian and development aid was only in a sense a ridiculous fraction of $2 billion. And much of them ended up in the hands of the US and Afghan corruption mobs as a result of the installation and maintenance of the protectorate government of the narcotics Hamíd Karzáí. So far, Ukraine is in a position - perhaps you will forgive me - of European Afghanistan - as far as the economic approaches of the United States and the European Union are concerned. It was probably easy to disrupt it and encourage and support the national passions of EU and American politics from the outside. Ukraine has not received any effective assistance from the Union for the whole quarter century. That is why it is in the state of the current crisis. The political gesture of the association agreement under these conditions the problems of Ukraine, I believe, solves not the problems, but rather preserves and poses new risks. Today's considerations and guidelines from Brussels and Berlin thus merely redistribute hundreds of thousands of refugees from Iraq, Syria, Kosovo, Libya and Afghanistan by quota are misunderstood by the seriousness of the situation and the incompetence. Without naming and eliminating the causes of refugeeism, today, especially without changing the style of aggressive and economically unscrupulous policies by the powers of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union, there is no way to find a way out of the vicious circle of war, blackmail and stealing from weak and subsequent social disasters. koneckonců all, even Pope František spoke highly of this in recent days. The position of the European Union, NATO and the United States on Ukraine is now a similar manifestation of incompetence. In this unqualified EU policy and in the current situation of the association gestures may mean deepening problems with the Mafia corruption clans, with fascinating elements in Ukraine. To a certain extent, they open the way. The withdrawal of these phenomena and the strengthening of these tendencies throughout the European Union can, of course, be expected, and without the previous stabilisation of Ukraine, it is more than likely that the immigration waves from Asia and Africa will be strengthened in the near future by the new numerous waves of emigration from Ukraine as well. [[23.20 hours]] I want to be properly understood. I am clearly saying that Ukraine needs qualified assistance, including aid to the economic vast extent. But it also needs clear limits that will gradually reduce and suppress the power of corrupt mafias and fascist tendencies. However, this aid will not now be the expansion of the North Atlantic Alliance to the east of Europe, the escalation of tension and economic confrontation between the Union and Russia, or the formal association of the corrupt clans controlled by Ukraine to the European Union. These are all the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, why, as a Member of the Czech Parliament, I will not support Ukraine's disbanded association with the European Union yet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u102	Thank you. I'm registering a few factual remarks. Mr Kalousek has the first and Mr Pilný will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u103	Thank you for the floor. Let me just make a comment. When Mr. docent Grebeníček, with all his life experience, with his family history, invokes the words of profesor Václav Klaus, there is only one explanation. One of them obviously went crazy. I'm sure Mr. docent Grebeníček remained consistent and his.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u104	Thank you. Now, Mr Pilný, with a factual point, will prepare Minister Herman with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask President Filip if he still insists on what he said in his speech, i.e. We're in 2015. For I heard a similar speech before, from the school radio in 1952 and 1953, when we had to listen to it. [[Applause on the right]] And if I'm here to express some disappointment about what happened after 1989, it's that, in the name of democracy, we have to listen to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u106	Thank you. I have a few factual points here, you'll get the floor. Now, then, Minister Herman, then Vice-President Gazdík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u107	Thank you, Mr President. After hearing this communist propaganda and brainwashing, I would like to ask Mr Grebeníček if he also brought the electric shoes his father treated clients in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u108	Thank you. Now Vice-President Gazdík with a point of fact, after whom Mr Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot call what we heard here a moment ago, other than a bistro. I had the honour of being at an ecumenical service at the Uhersko Hradiště prison on Saturday, where my predecessor's father committed violence on prisoners. Now that this man is calling on Pope František here, he is indeed a bistro.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u110	Thank you. Now, Chairman Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are clearly running out of arguments, and as we know when the arguments are running out, any substantive debate ends and resorts to the various things that have just been said here. And that is why, at this point, I would like to propose a suspension of this point by 6 October until 14.30 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u112	Yes, it's a procedural proposal, I'll put it to a vote. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering an application for check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to rejoin the system with your cards. And I'm gonna read the apology that came to me. From 23.15 pm today, Mr Zdeněk Soukup apologizes for medical reasons. We will be voting on the procedural proposal, which is - to interrupt this point until 6 June. 10:30 p.m. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural motion to interrupt, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 98; 137 Members and Members are registered, for 29, against 103, this proposal has not been accepted, it has been rejected. We will continue with the factual remarks I have here. Mr Grebeníček has the first. I would like to ask whether the factual point of Mr Kováčik still remains. It doesn't, okay. In that case, Mr Grebeníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u113	First, a slight reaction to Miroslav Kalousek. I stick to the principle that I don't judge certain statements by who says them, but by what they say. So I took the liberty of reminding Václav Klaus or Pope František. Next time, I'll definitely quote Miroslav Kalousek if he says something worth quoting. As far as the imperative invectives of some present here are concerned, let me sum it up to one thing. So much crap, lies and nonsense, half-truth and spoken lies, I've been through more than enough in 25 years. And I have to say that I reacted by writing a book called Castle of Resistance. And I will personally hand it over to the main actors who have applied these invectives here today at the next meeting. Maybe they'll shift their perspective on a thing that was nothing but the crap of the media that just didn't know how to confront a young Grebeníček when he had no problems, didn't do anything, so look somewhere else. After all, we all have our experiences with the media. I have the worst. Everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u114	Thank you. Another point of fact is President Stanjura, after whom President Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u115	I would like to draw our attention to the one who listens, for example, to Mr Grebeníček's outrageous speech. We have seven political parties in the House, six of which have a president who is a Member, one of whom is not. If I look closely, it is supposed to be a government priority - not one leader of a government political party listens to it. All the chairmen of the opposition political parties are here, listening to it. In the case of Dawn, the first Vice-President sits here. I say their chairman is not a Member. So don't tell us, gentlemen of the government coalition, that's your priority. Where is the Prime Minister, where is one vice prime minister, where is the second vice prime minister, where are all the presidents of the coalition political parties?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u116	Thank you. Now, then, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u117	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I want to join Mr. Stanjura's appeal. The fact that there isn't a single coalition party chairman is simply a disgrace. And if it were contempt for the Chamber of Deputies, we're used to it from these gentlemen, but this is simply contempt for this subject. We here very loyally, because we want to help you, because we understand that you are such an amazing coalition that you would not put the majority together, so with our opposition votes, we want to help you to approve this treaty. And one of the only leaders of your party isn't worth being here with us until midnight. Please give them my personal contempt. All three of them. [[23.30 hours]] The second point to Mr Grebeníčk through Mr President. Mr. Ambassador, we've never done anything wrong to each other, even though we've always looked at the world with completely different eyes and we have different values, so we've always greeted each other politely. And I don't think we have anything humanly against each other. So please, why do you want to break it now and you want to quote me sometime in the future? I beg you, don't embarrass me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u118	Good evening. I thank my colleague Kalousek for his point of view. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just really, because I'm a decent person, so I'm gonna answer my colleague Pilný's question. I was born in 1955, I don't know what you were listening to, and I don't know what's wrong with asking how Ukraine's debt to the Czech Republic and the gas supply is involved. If you don't care, I was wondering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u120	I thank my colleague Filip. Another duly logged in is a colleague Josef Šenfeld. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u121	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the first reading of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, has already taken place at three meetings of the Chamber of Deputies, where Members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia have also delivered their views and opinions. None of what has been happening and happening in Ukraine since 21 November 2013, since so-called The Euromaidanu, when a provoked wave of protests began right after the Ukrainian Government suspended preparations for signing this agreement, did not prevent the European Parliament from expressing its agreement with the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine on 16 September last year, while the agreement was also ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament in Kiev. For the sake of completeness, Members supported the agreement by a ratio of 535 votes to 127 against and 35 abstentions. The press release stated that, on its basis, political association and economic integration between the European Union and Ukraine would deepen and that there would be mutual free access to the markets of the Contracting Parties. The situation in Ukraine is unstable. In eastern Ukraine, the Minsk agreements are not respected, places of war continue. In economic terms, Ukraine is in more than a difficult situation. According to the reports, he's headed for an economic disaster. And at this point, are we to give our consent to the ratification of an international treaty that opens the borders of the European Union for the labour force of Ukraine in the order of hundreds of thousands of job seekers? At least I have such information, and I would like Prime Minister Sobotka or Foreign Minister Zaorálek to disprove it here. Perhaps we are aware, then, that the approval of the Czech Republic will open the doors to Ukrainian citizens still closed. According to my information, the signing of the Association Agreement will not only introduce visa-free travel between Ukraine and the countries of the European Union, but, at the same time, all states must ensure equal working conditions for the citizens of Ukraine. Yet the countries of the European Union themselves have a problem with high unemployment. It's around 25 million people. The unemployment rate is 10 per cent and is even slightly above 20 per cent in the age category up to 25 years. If that is the case, it is worth considering whether it would be appropriate to reconsider the consent of this association agreement. It was not so long ago that the old countries of the European Union feared the influx of cheap labor from Eastern Europe, including us, the Czech Republic. This did not happen, but one of the reasons was, without a doubt, the fact that there was a stable democratic regime and a relatively well-functioning economy in our country. There was a warning about the rash approval of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine, where the situation is still unsolved, although it has stabilized slightly lately. But it is far from like a European standard. Another approximation of Ukraine to the European Union is hasty and premature. It is neither politically nor economically beneficial to the citizens of the Czech Republic. We cannot therefore support the House press 310 with our votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u122	I thank my colleague Šenfeld. Now with priority rights, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u123	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, I would have responded immediately if I hadn't left it in the end. Because there are concerns that when the provisions on the introduction of visa-free travel, when it is triggered, it will be the result of the influx of millions of Ukrajinec into the Czech Republic. Well, I'd like to question that here, because reality is different. Indeed, the Association Agreement mentions the importance of introducing a visa-free regime, but it is only a declaration. This introduction is addressed within the framework of existing relations and the conditions for its introduction must be met by Ukraine. They are specified and continuously evaluated in the so-called November 2010 visa liberalisation action plan. And there are still a number of things that are actually on the side of Ukraine to change or prepare. I would like to say here that, even after the visa-free regime has been introduced, this will only apply to short-stay stays, granting residence permits longer than 90 days within six months remains within the competence of the national states. So that's a fundamental fact that doesn't change. So there's no flooding just because it goes off, it just doesn't happen. You probably have the information that Ukraine is the largest tide in the Czech Republic at the moment. That in this year 990 applications for international protection were submitted by the Czech Republic and more than half of them are citizens of Ukraine. In second place are Kubánec, on the third Syřan, 69 Syřan, to whom all of them were granted. But I think it is interesting that, even in this current situation, the largest number of those asking for international protection are the people of Ukraine. But it's in the numbers I say. And I repeat, even after the introduction of visa-free travel, if this were to happen, which will also not be quite easy, it will not mean the influx of which there are concerns, because it will fall under the national competence, as I said, and under the restrictions that remain in the stay for a longer stay permit. So enough to make it clear that there's really no danger of what they say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u124	Thank you, Secretary of State. Another duly signed up is Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared a very long speech here, but I will no longer be able to read it, if you don't mind. [[Let's hear it.]] I'd just respond to all the previous speakers who had these endless excursions into history, meaningless. The Communist Party wants to prevent the adoption of the treaty for a number of meaningless reasons, but one of the main reasons, in my opinion, is that it is protesting the alleged persecution of its Ukrainian comrades. So I would like to explain to them how things really are. Ukraine adopted several decommunisation laws this spring. One of these laws commands all parties to remove elements that point to their totalitarian past from their name, statutes and symbolism. But the ukrajinský Communists didn't do it, so they broke the law and the Home Office banned them. It's very simple and logical. So I recommend to my communist colleagues that they stop punishing Ukrajinec for their communist politicians breaking the law, and that they unanimously approve the association agreement with us today. Honor the job and let's vote, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u126	Thank you, Mrs Zelienková, and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. It's not like that. So I'm done with the debate. I ask the Minister's final words to the rapporteur, if any. [[From the diaper, they say, "No!]] Not interested. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolutions of the Committee on European Affairs and Foreign Affairs, which have been delivered to you as House prints 310/1 and 2. Resolutions are identical. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. [[Reminiscent of Mr. Foldyn.]] I am aware of your accompanying resolution and will invite you as soon as we approve the resolution or if we do not approve the original resolution. [[Objection.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You wanted to assign him. We will therefore vote first on the accompanying resolution. I beg my colleague, Foldyna, if he wants to read the resolution again. [[He doesn't want to.]] No need. Chairman Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. If the proposal is called an accompanying resolution, such a proposal can only be voted on for something that is adopted. Until it is adopted, a resolution which is called accompanying cannot be voted on. If my colleague Foldyna called it that, then he has the right to be voted earlier in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u128	I'm sorry. I wasn't driving at the time, so I don't know what Mr. Foldyna called it. I'll ask him to clarify what he called it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u129	Thank you, Mr President. It is a statement from the Chamber of Deputies on an association agreement with Ukraine. A statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u130	A colleague of Stanjura's with priority rights. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u131	First of all, I want you to sign us off before we vote. And I mean, if that's a statement from the Chamber of Deputies, that's another point we don't have on the agenda. If you have an item, you can adopt resolutions and, where appropriate, you can adopt accompanying resolutions. You cannot give a statement to the Chamber of Deputies to a point called the Association Agreement between the States of the European Union and Ukraine. Nothing like that is possible. So either Mr Foldyna will make this a motion for an accompanying resolution and will be voted on after the vote on the Association Agreement, or he can propose a new point some morning, we will veto it and it is settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-09-17-ps2013-031-03-008-129.u132	So I'm going to lean on my colleague Stanjura's opinion, because this is actually, as he said, another point. If my colleague Foldyna wants to object to my procedure, of course he can. If not, he agrees with my procedure that we will vote this as an accompanying resolution after voting on the resolution itself, as I proposed at the beginning. There's a check-out request. Well, I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. And we will proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution that has been delivered to you as House prints 310/1 and 2. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is vote number 99, registered 138 Members and Members, for 107, against 29. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it from the middle and right of the hall.]] We will therefore now address the accompanying resolution, as proposed by Mr Foldyna. I am opening the vote on the accompanying resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 100 vote, 139 Members and Members registered, for 31, against 49. The motion was not accepted. I therefore conclude the discussion of this point and today's meeting day and interrupt the meeting of the House by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning.
