ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse /house print 444/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Minister Dan Ťok will state the draft bill. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I have been asked to submit an amendment to the Act on Market Power in the second reading of this House. Since I believe that the Prime Minister explained and supported this law sufficiently at the outset, I would just mention that the Agricultural Committee at its last meeting supported the amendment to the Act on Market Power in Amendments and on the same day also supported it by the Economic Committee, and I would ask for approval. I'd ask for a hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. At first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee and the press was directed to the economic committee. The Committees' resolution was delivered as House prints 444/1 to 4. I ask the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, as well as the economic committee of Mr Ladislav Velebný, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committees and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u4	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural committee as a guarantee discussed at its 21st meeting on 2 September this year this House's press 444 and, following the opening words of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka and the report by Mr Ladislav Velebný and following the debate, adopted resolution number 80 in which it recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a government bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on the significant market power in the sale and misuse of agricultural and food products, House press 444, approve the amendments adopted. These are the six amendments that are part of this resolution, the Parliament's Press 444/3, and they are all in your system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u5	Thank you. And a resolution from the Economic Committee, if I may.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u6	Yes, thank you for your word. The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the opening words of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition Petr Rafaj, reports by Mr Ladislav Velebný, and after a general and detailed debate, this House Press 444 on 2 September 2015 at the 25th meeting recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House Press 444 as approved by the legislative technical comments, which reads: In paragraph 13, Section 8 para. 1 the word "s" is added after the words "market power." That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u7	I thank you and open a general debate in which I register four applications. The first is Mrs Kovářová, Mr Laudát will be prepared. I'm sorry, Madam. Mrs Černochová has the floor with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I was surprised, and I must say, unpleasantly, that the Prime Minister, who is the promoter of the proposal, does not sit here, but the Minister sits here. I do not know why this is happening, and I therefore propose a procedural proposal that we vote on the interruption of this point to the presence of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u9	Okay. Since this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering your application for check-out. I'm going to sign you all off and ask you, colleagues, to sign up with your cards. I will wait until the number of Members and Members in the Chamber has settled. For the record, I'm going to repeat what we're going to vote on. There is a procedural proposal by Mrs Černochová, who proposes that this point be interrupted, until Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka is present at the hearing. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 26, registered 128 Members, for proposal 34, against 69. The result of the vote is that this procedural proposal has been rejected. We'll keep talking. I am therefore going back to the general debate that I have opened. Mrs Kovářová will be the first to speak, Mr Laudát will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, in my previous speeches, I have repeatedly asked what was behind the exclusion of suppliers from this amendment. Unfortunately, I did not get a satisfying answer. In principle, it was said that suppliers did not find themselves in such situations as would require regulation. But that doesn't hold up because of the information that was made by the press. For example, Mladá fronta TODAY wrote on September 4 that, according to analyses, manufacturers of some types of food are significantly stronger than the largest chains. While the largest supplier of mineral waters on the domestic market controls 55.6 percent of the market, the three largest chains combined have only 27.1 percent. Only a slightly lower proportion than mineral water has the largest brewery, supplier of cookies, fats or coffee. Therefore, even suppliers can have significant market power, it seems undoubtedly in the light of these studies. I therefore wonder what real reasons led to the exclusion of suppliers from regulation. I don't expect an answer to that question. But if the government coalition continues to insist on not including suppliers, it would be fair to amend the name of the law we are discussing here. Instead of a law on significant market power, it would be more appropriate to talk about the law against small traders, whose position will be weak in the face of large suppliers, and this government does not want to do anything about it despite repeated warnings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u11	Thank you, Madame. So now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Laudát. Mrs Havlová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. I think I have shown you that I support them and I mean the good of this country and that it is rational and it will help things. But as far as this law is concerned, after all, I will recapitulate the negotiations to date. At this point, the Minister of Industry and Trade has regulation of market relations in his department. This amendment was drafted by one member of the ODS at the Office for the Protection of Competition, so it is from Mr Rafaj's workshop, with the fact that he is not able to use the existing standards. One prominent member of the ANO movement on television calmed the audience by not amending the law, so he tricked the nation into saying later that he was actually there as a citizen or a Member, whereas here he will then vote as a coalition MP. So delicious. I have learned from the media - and the Prime Minister, I consider it a big foul from him that he is not here - there was a furiously rapid discussion on the speedy economic committee, if I am not mistaken, so it was about July 10th, when you correct me, and it was shortly after the Prime Minister let himself be heard that apparently those who are blocking this law are behind them various market chains and that it is not normal. Coincidentally, after meeting with the representatives of the Union of Suppliers, the Chamber chaired by Mr Toman. When I approached him on the Economic Committee - I am concerned about this because I am one of the frequent speakers in this matter, and I have already proposed the abolition of this law as a whole for years ago, because it was in such a strange situation where the NGO coalition took a bit of the upper hand and here they pushed through this law, today they say that it is bad, so I asked the Prime Minister twice repeatedly, because according to what came out to the public, the proposal from Mr Rafaj's workshop was that it dealt with both sides of market relations, which means both the supplier and sales party. So I asked him if he could finally say at which stage and who, either in the government or in the commentary procedure, had atrophed the one side, which means she suddenly disappeared. [[17.50 hours]] He didn't answer, and he gave his standard lecture on how very good it is, and Mr. Rafaj added, as we have some time now in September - we have the beginning of October - there will just be a huge scandal as to how one of those chains will be accused of some fatal error, a violation of the existing law. So far it's quiet by the path. Well, maybe they'll come up with something. There might be a media show. I also listened to this talk, like all other participants in the economic committee, and I asked the second time, and I answered a fairly clear and simple question, who, at which stage and who is the one who took out one side of those suppliers, did not get it again. So it was kind of a dialogue between two deaf people. I'm sorry. While this government promised transparency, it promised fair things. I have undertaken a great mission, and not just me, and many of my colleagues, in an effort to find the original proposal and to reach it and, if necessary, to give here an amendment that would bring it back. We were here once in the law, or in the past period - dealing with some kind of economic relationship, regulation of horizontal cartels and other things. It was not only a transposition of European law, but it was very rational. In this way, I would imagine that politicians and their expertise would interfere with economic or market relations. In this case, however, we have the exact opposite. Here even the supervisory authority will do something about the economic competition, that is to say, even economists who should deal with it should evaluate the effects of this amendment, neither politicians nor expert associations besides - and apparently it was a union that even visited before- the previous one minister - so he did not agree to repeal the law on significant market power. So I tried to put it back in the game, I ordered some lawyers, but I say frankly that I would rather have the government do this or admit the color and allow it to come back, so that this law must, according to the YES movement and especially social democracy - they are consistent in this, yes, it is not consistent. You have convinced yourself, Mr. Babiš has promised the protester of the Trade and Tourism Union that the law is not necessary, that it is useless and so why it should be approved. Then today, Mr. Faltýnek here will say it's an important law, you've all heard it here in the draft of the show. You make fun of people. Objectively, I must say that you're doing it masterfully, because so far, it's working very well on your preferences. However, I have tried, and I want to read here in a detailed debate, at least try to balance that and return the other side of market relations, and now, gentlemen and ladies of YES, show how you feel about that right-wing policy and fair environment. So since, after all, this is a fundamentally new matter which goes beyond the economic committee, where I could read here for about an hour the analysis of the proposals and their possible negative effects of Mr Kudela, but I suppose it will be at third reading if it is of any interest. However, as far as my proposal is concerned, and I would ask the government to deal with it - that then someone should deal with it, because unlike them, I really do not have the audacity to come up with something and throw it this way without thinking, without analysing the effects. They have this audacity. Therefore, the amendment would be in Section 1 paragraph. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the proposal shall be inserted between the words "in connection" the following text: "with sale or" 2. In Section 2 of the proposal, the following is inserted under point (a) of the proposal after the word "business supplier': "or the sales alliance referred to in point (d)'. 3. In Section 2 of the proposal, point (c) is inserted after point (d) of the following text: " (d) the sales alliance of the group of suppliers resulting from a contract, other legal act or other legal fact which carries out cooperation between suppliers in relation to the sale of foodstuffs or the receipt or provision of services related thereto, or has been established for the purpose of such cooperation irrespective of whether or not the grouping has a legal personality'. 4. In Section 2 of the proposal, the present point (d) shall be referred to as point (e). 5. In Section 3, the new words are: "§ 3 Significant market power 1. The significant market power is such a customer's position, and now I return there "or the supplier, as a result of which the customer" is newly added "or the supplier can impose an advantage against" without a regular reason, is being cut off by "contractors," "the other Contracting Party." This means it returns to balance both the supplier and the customer. I continue: '... to the other Contracting Party in connection with purchase or sale', this increases there, 'food or receiving or providing services with the purchase or sale of food related. 2. Significant market power is assessed in particular with regard to market structure, barriers to market entry and financial strength of customers. 3. If the customer is an entrepreneur who provides the purchase of food or services with the purchase or sale of food related to another customer under a command-type contract, its significant market power shall be assessed together with the position of the customer for which the activity is provided. If the supplier is a businessman, that is new, "which provides for the sale of food or services relating to the sale of food related to another supplier under a command-type contract, its significant market power is assessed together with the status of the supplier for which the activity is provided. 4. It is considered that significant market power (a) a customer whose turnover for the sale of food and services related to this in the Czech Republic exceeds 5 billion. CZK 12 months in the last completed financial year; (b) a customer who is a controlled person whose turnover for the sale of food and services related to this in the Czech Republic does not exceed 5 billion. CZK for the last completed accounting period of 12 months, if its turnover for the sale of food and services related to this in the Czech Republic, together with the turnover of the controlling person for the sale of food and services related to that in the Czech Republic exceeds 5 billion. CZK of the Czech Republic for the last completed accounting period of 12 months; or (c) a purchasing alliance where the collective turnover of its members for the sale of food and services related to this in the Czech Republic exceeds 5 billion. CZK 12 months in the last completed financial year.' I don't know why the delay in this matter was attributed to me when she started a two-hour discussion here with her outrageous and incredible remarks on the level of the Chamber of Deputies is mocking something. " (d) a supplier whose turnover for the sale of food and services related to this in the Czech Republic exceeds 1 billion. CZK 12 months in the last completed financial year; (e) a supplier who is a controlled person whose turnover for the sale of food and services related to this in the Czech Republic does not exceed 1 billion. CZK for the last completed accounting period of 12 months, if its turnover for the sale of food and services related to this in the Czech Republic, together with the turnover of the controlling person for the sale of food and services related to that in the Czech Republic exceeds 1 billion. CZK 12 months in the last completed financial year; or [[18.00 hours]] (f) a sales alliance for which the joint turnover of its members for the sale of food and services related to this in the Czech Republic exceeds CZK 1 billion for the last completed accounting period of 12 months. 5. The relevant market power shall not be exercised by the customer referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR (a) or (b) neither the purchasing alliance referred to in paragraph 1 shall: Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR (c) to the supplier referred to in point (c). (d) or (e) to the sales alliance referred to in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR (f). 6. The supplier shall not have significant market power as referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR (d) or (e) not even the sales alliances referred to in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR (f) to the customer referred to in point (f). (a) or (b) the buying-in alliance referred to in paragraph 1; Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR (c).
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u13	I will ask you, my colleague, not to disturb you during the speeches of the various Members. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u14	6. I'm getting close to the end. About three more papers. In Section 3a of the proposal, the following text is added after the words "between the customer and significant market power and supplier': I contract between the supplier with significant market power and the customer. 7. In Article 4, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The provisions of point (c) of Article 2 of the proposal shall be added. (i) to (m) the following text: (i) the supply of a medically defective food or other dangerous food, the supply of a falsified food or repeated defective food supply, including sensory defects and including packaging defects, or breaches of hygiene regulations as well as agreed hygiene conditions for the supply of food, including breach of the temperature chain; (j) not a minor change in the composition of foodstuffs in the proportion of their individual constituents in their volume or weight, a change in the packaging or a change in the country of origin carried out during the duration of the contract, unless such change has been demonstrated to the customer by at least 14 days longer than the time limit within which the customer may supply these foodstuffs, terminate the contract for such supply; (k) binding the supply of food and the obligation of the customer to remove another product or service which is not related to the original supply in substance or according to commercial practice; (l) binding the supply of food to the customer's obligation to remove a certain minimum quantity of food in a specified quantity or financial volume; (m) the application of longer than the agreed delivery period. 8. In Article 8, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 is added "or supplier" after the word "customer," in turn it is the balance of the relationship. 9. In Article 8, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 of the proposal shall be deleted after the words "or 10 per cent of the net turnover achieved by the customer over the last completed financial year' and "1 per cent of the net turnover achieved by the legal or business person for the last completed financial year'. 10. In Article 8, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 of the proposal is added "or supplier' after the word "customer'. 11. It's getting even again. Customer or supplier, I'll make it short so you're not all nervous here. 12. The words "shopping alliance or its members' shall be added to the words "selling alliance or its members'. It's the balance of the relationship again. 13. Again in Section 8, the words "sales alliance' shall be inserted after the words "shopping alliance'. If the government weren't here to play, before I even quote any explanatory reports on this proposal, I'm gonna cut it short, to secrecy, and I'm not gonna think about the reason why it wants to reconsider these market relationships, it's just that I'm gonna take over their original proposal and we don't have to stick around. The reason for the report on points 1 to 8 shall be between 10 and 13. The reason for the change is to balance the law on both sides of the contractual relationship. The extension of the impact of the law on suppliers with significant market power was one of the main objectives of the amendment. The fact that regulation only affects one side of the customer's contractual relationship has been repeatedly criticised by both the professional public and referred to as discriminatory. The original proposal for an amendment to extend regulation to both parties in such a form, I have already said it here, has also been passed by the Legislative Council of the Government. There is no doubt that suppliers with significant market power exist in the food market in the Czech Republic, and that they can abuse this significant market power not only against large chains, but especially to small and medium-sized traders. Now there's some research, I'm not gonna read it here. In addition, there are so-called Indispensable products which traders cannot afford in the long term, in the short term yes, not to offer in their stores, even suppliers of these products have undoubtedly significant market power.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u15	I'm sorry, coworkers and colleagues, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down, especially the left side of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u16	Thank you. So with that in mind, I'm going to release some things so I don't bore you. Those who then claim there was a dungyard. Members and Members of the ANO movement, I will release them, I will shorten them. In view of this, I propose extending regulation to suppliers with significant market power. In general, it is not possible to compare the turnover of traders and the turnover of producers. Food producers are already in significant position on the market at turnovers much smaller than those of traders. For example, the food producer EMKO on its website identifies its position on the market as dominant, already at the turnover of CZK 839 million. There's also a link to the website. In view of this fact and taking into account the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises in accordance with the recommendation of the European Community of 6 May 2003 on the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, a turnover limit of CZK 1 billion is proposed for suppliers with significant market power. With regard to the abuse of significant market power by suppliers to traders, complaints are recorded, in particular from small and medium-sized traders, which show that such suppliers, for example, are. they make deliveries subject to removal of a certain minimum volume of goods, removal of all-pallet supplies or removal of other goods. Practices consisting of non-compliance with the agreed delivery date or non-delivery of goods are also recorded. The problems of changing the composition of food, which lead to the deterioration of their quality, are discussed repeatedly in public. These changes are mainly made by large food manufacturers, not only by traders but mainly by customers. It is therefore proposed to sanction these negotiations. The negotiations are described under paragraph 7 of this amendment. It is proposed to add that the parties which would otherwise have significant market power, i.e. they do not have it in respect of entities which also have significant market power. The purpose of administrative punishment is to impose proportionate and not winding-up sanctions. The present proposal provides for fines which are not proportionate. As a result, there is a risk that traders in many cases prefer to avoid cooperation with Czech suppliers. This would lead to a decrease in the share of Czech products on the domestic market as well as a decrease in exports of Czech food. The decline in the share of Czech products in the domestic market and the decline in exports of Czech food would significantly have a very negative impact on the national economy of the Czech Republic, especially from employment to technological development, to investment and tax collection. I therefore propose this amendment. Short summary. I believe that instead of leading this war, which is unnecessary, which is unconceived, which threatens, I do not say that this will be the case, I am not an expert in the food industry and large producers, can endanger Czech producers, so that instead of the Minister of Agriculture coming up with a solid food law, in order to improve the quality of Czech food here, whether from chains or smaller suppliers, he flagrantly declares there that it must be decided by the market, it must be decided by consumers or buyers themselves. [[18.10 hours]] So instead - and really the novel here is needed as salt. I'm sure you've had a chance to read over the summer what different drinks, sodas, raspberries are made from. And that's okay with the Minister of Agriculture. But here the government - and not even the Minister of Resort, I have the feeling that he has not even stepped up to the issue, I think Minister Mládek - so instead, this law will appear here in this way, where we go into market relations without imagining the consequences. I understand that any supplier could have crashed and wanted more rights to blackmail a businessman. But if you want - and it's typically a socialist approach - to throw yourself into other things, because it's not a question of food to consider market relations, which is close to left-wing parties - to intervene, regulate, threaten, so it can be in other commodities. Therefore, please really consider whether to accept this amendment at all. For another to actually start thinking about it and come up with a comprehensive amendment to the Competition Act, which will be fair and will not distort the environment and threaten. Then I'd like to ask you to reconsider. I hope I didn't take that much time. I've been trying to do things this time. I'm not gonna mix any emotions in here. And if you're gonna vote for this amendment, please don't fool the public, I think the YES movement is that you're some sort of middle or right-wing party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u17	Thank you. I note Mr Kalousek's factual remark and Mr Bělobrádek's priority right. [[Mr Kalousek prefers Vice-President Belobrádek, but he lets him go to the rhetoric.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to put forward a procedural proposal. And I would consider it fair if the President and the Rules of Procedure allow us to vote on it after the speech of Vice-President Bělobrádek, which is why I preferred him. It is a procedural proposal that would modify the resolution that we have made here when we decided to start discussing the amendment of Mr Volný at 19 o'clock. I am putting forward this procedural proposal because I do not want it to be us who will be charged with blocking government proposals. On the board, you can see the government's proposals, which I think the government considers important, whether it's point 20, 22, 5, 7 or 8. So I would like to propose that the House act today in order to discuss the continuous points in order, i.e. after this point 2, points 20, 22, 5, 7 and 8, even at the cost of taking action after the 19th and 21st hours, thus ending today's negotiations. Otherwise, we will start discussing Mr Volný's 19 o'clock item, and I assure you that we will not discuss it by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. I offer you two serious alternatives. One that will allow you to discuss five more government proposals that we do not want to block, the other that will not allow you to discuss them, you will wonder when you will discuss them. And that parliamentary proposal that we refuse to take precedence over, perhaps, Mrs Semelová's parliamentary proposal, will not be discussed either way. I think it's fair, it's up to you to decide. I ask that this procedural proposal be voted on after the speech of President Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u19	It's a rather non-standard procedure. Since the procedural proposal is put to the vote immediately, a debate could be launched here. Therefore, I will respect the Rules of Procedure and I will vote on your proposal and then give priority rights. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come and vote. I will repeat, Mr President, your procedural proposal. If I didn't repeat it exactly, please specify me. We will now vote on the proposal for the Chamber of Deputies to vote today after 19 o'clock on a continuous basis in the order of 20, 22, 5, 7 and 8, as set out, and that is the end of today's meeting day. Did I say well your procedural proposal? [[Member Kalousek agrees.]] Okay. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 27; 133 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 37, against 56. The motion has been rejected and we will continue to discuss it. In fact, Mr Kalousek is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u20	I fully respect that. I only ask that for history it be noted that we were full of goodwill towards five government proposals and that it wasn't us, but you who blocked them because you preferred an MP's proposal that was ahead of the line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u21	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. So I ask, Mr President, if you want to make a point of fact as well. [[Vice-President Bělobrádek agrees.]] So you'll be third in order to keep the order of applications. The first, with a factual point, is Mr Ivan Adamec. Then I'm registering Mr. Kalousek's factual remark... Does your point of order last, Mr. Chairman Kalousek? No. So in that case, Mr Adamec and then Mr Bělobrádek. [[to say "Hamáček"]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to go back to the 444 press, second reading. I would like to respond to my colleague, Laudát, who said that at the UOHS this bill, which we are discussing in some form, was prepared by a member of the ODS. So I'd like to point out to him that he was an ex-ODS member, so let me get this straight. [[with emphasis]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u23	Thank you. Before we continue the debate, I'll read the note. Mr Radim Fiala and Mr Tomio Okamura apologizes from 19 o'clock for reasons of work. Mrs Jitka Chalánková apologizes from 17.45 to the end of the day. Furthermore, from 19 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes. Today she apologizes since 18.30 Mrs Věra Kovářová. Today, from 17 to 24 due to illness, Mr Martin Sedlář apologizes. Mr Karel Fiedler apologises from 17:00 to 18:00 for reasons of work. Today, on urgent business matters, Minister Kateřina Valachová apologizes from 18:00 to the end of the meeting day. Furthermore, from 18.30 to the end of the day of the meeting due to the meeting of the Security Council of the State, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka apologizes. I note one point of fact with which Mr Laudát is registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna apologize to the ODS because I lived thinking that he was still there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u25	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Pavel Bělobrádek, following him with priority rights, Mr Velebný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I'm the Prime Minister for now, but one day, I'll be the Prime Minister. However, I would follow up on what my colleague Laudát said. I have worked in the food industry for eight years, and I have to say that the practices we encountered at the manufacturing company, which focused on meat and meat products production, have sometimes been very sad. And I think it's a thing that's not new in this sector. I know that this law has been mentioned for many years. [[18.20 hours]] These practices have been very choosy and there is an effort to prevent it. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I understand what you said about competition. I understand that. I don't think there's anything socialist or left-wing about setting the rules where the market fails, where practices are unfair. That means in that sense, I think it has a logic, because in cases--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u27	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. Once again, I'm going to ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down so we can hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u28	Because even the social market economy was based on the fact that there are firm rules and they are strictly required. I think we're just talking about the rules here. I do not take this as hacking into the relationship between demand and supply, but rather laying down rules, because in some cases it simply failed. I could tell here about various fictitious systems, how, at the producer's expense, not the distributors, but also the vendors themselves. And they were really methods that were from pallet and shelves to piercing vacuum packaging of unsold products with a pin to make it a kind of flaw. I understand this. I think there really is a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u29	Thank you. Now a point of fact - Mr Michal Kučera. The rapporteur, Mr Velebný, will prepare himself with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. I think Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek just answered his question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u31	I'm sorry, colleague, at the rapporteur's desk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u32	He spoke of the use of significant market power by both distributors and sellers. And that's what this is about, that's what we're talking about. The law is just discriminatory. As you put it, it's discriminatory. It is burdened with only one part and is not burdened with suppliers who actually trade with primary producers. If we are to approve this amendment, we are trying to correct it with this amendment tabled by colleague František Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u33	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr Velebný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I think it would be correct to say, in response to Mr Laudát, because he said that it was being discussed in some accelerated regime or simply unstandardized. I am not speaking as a petitioner, but as a rapporteur, that discussions both in the agricultural committee and in the economics took place in accordance with the agreed rules of procedure of these committees. We should be a little bit correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u35	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Laudát is registered. Otherwise, Mr. Ambassador, you are also duly logged in to the debate if you wish. That doesn't apply, in which case, your factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u36	It's technical. I have to retreat because I didn't say it was a non-standard negotiation. I was trying, and I think who you were on the Economic Committee, to get a one-minute or a half-minute easy answer from the Prime Minister who fired one side of the market relationship. But I wouldn't be here at all, if you came, I might disagree with you leaving a balanced law. Why are you hiding it? You guys promised people transparency, so keep it. But someone's interfering here, and then I'll read that maybe we, who's doing this, are being influenced, who knows who's not behind us. There's no one behind me, and I'm deeply touched. But I'd ask who's behind you. Why are you covering it up? Not to mention I gave a piece of my expert, so you could have put it back or at least not covered up the original proposal. I would have taken it over, or you would have put it here, and the law in your file could have been discussed a long time ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u37	Thank you. So now, Mrs Havlová, duly signed up, and after that, Mr Iva Adamec. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u38	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, the law on significant market power is a long-term issue, discussed in the long term. I believe that the Food Act is a very important tool for food control, because it concerns all citizens in this Republic. We often learn about cases where we pay for the consequences of the imperfection of this law. I am aware of the two main problems of this law, which is why I have also put two amendments into the system. The first is that the present version of the law concerns only one party to the contractual relationship. It concerns only customers and not suppliers. I consider it important to point out that this very passage of the law changed at the last moment and essentially without explanation. The fact that there are companies on the supplier's side that can use significant market power is clear. This results from market research, and we all know that. In short, large chains have a similarly large supplier against each other. If we put the law on one side of the situation, it will be extremely unfair. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] The second crucial reminder is the specification of prohibited behavior. Repeatedly, experts on this issue say that the wording in the law is very unfortunate. They are very vague, nonspecific, and thus exploitable. This amendment can be very hard on our small Czech farmers and processors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u39	I'm sorry, Madam. I'm very sorry, but I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down in the room, because it's really hard to understand what's being lectured here. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u40	Large chains will try to avoid the risk of unclear and winding-up wordings of the law and rather not buy from small Czech suppliers and look for goods abroad. The share of food from Czech producers and suppliers is between 70 and 80 percent for large chains. Moreover, business chains export Czech products to their foreign branches in the amount of tens of billions of crowns, which are not negligible numbers, and which are not mentioned at all. It may be a plague for the Czech food industry, where in the finals only big suppliers, which are surprisingly not affected by the law, even though they also have significant market power and are in advantage and will have an even greater advantage and the little ones will come to the drum. In a detailed debate, I will sign up to the amendments that solve these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u41	Thank you for your contribution, Madame. I will now ask Mr Ivan Adamec, who is duly registered, and Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u42	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think a lot has already fallen on this bill. When I thought about it, I thought it was very problematic to correct such a bill, yet I will try to do so today. However, allow me to make a few observations. Supply-customer relations, or today we modernly call the market environment, reminds me a little bit of neighbourly relations. I've been doing, and I've been doing, like, a long time in community policy. If you intervene in neighborhood relations, better yet, they'll say what they think of you, both sides, or they'll send you somewhere. When you intervene in market relations, the situation is significantly worse because the market is distorted and it may have consequences that may not be so marginal. Not in vain is said the basic lesson about the economy that you have a microten bag full of liquid, and when you start pushing, those are social aspects, the engineering, the market, so what happens to you? Your bag will bulge, and if you push hard enough, it will burst, and you'll be glad there was only water in the bag. Maybe that's my attitude. To this day, I haven't understood where the significant market power is. It's been dropped. It was implied here. I think, if you look at the situation that is in Europe, that in the Czech Republic, what I have information, and the numbers are very different, the power on the customer side in the sum of ten strings is less than 50 per cent. But as far as suppliers, big suppliers are concerned, even four of them can have almost three-quarters of the market when they come together. And now take another picantry, and I'm curious to see how the UOHS will react when one of the big suppliers wants to buy one chain, what happens next. I don't think we've really chosen the path we've chosen well. If I compare, for example, Great Britain or Italy, you have four chains in the UK today, and they have 80 percent of the market. [[18.30 hours]] This can be considered to be significant market power. I understand that. And it's also against the sanctions if they're acting weird when we're already admitting that the state is somehow regulating the market. But we have actually chosen a combination of those two possibilities, where our proposers say the significant market power is less than 50 per cent, but we will give sanctions as in the UK, where it reaches a substantial part of the market. I'm the one who sees this as a big problem, because if we want to act this way, we're acting very badly. I understand there's so many things that can happen. You know, I don't really love those markets either. First of all, they're stealing my time when I have to go in there, and when I'm driven out of that crap that's not able to provide normal food, but more than those customer-supply relationships, I'm worried about what's being sold in that crap and pretended to be food. I don't think we're gonna change that by designing the law here. And people go to the markets because the goods are cheap. And we still haven't learned that cheap doesn't equal yet healthy and quality. Now my friend from Spain has returned, which we see as a country with great unemployment, which has big problems, but there when you go to the markets, so poor quality goods, and I am not saying that in all our markets, in some chains it has improved significantly, you will not find poor quality goods there. I think that our efforts should be aimed at really buying quality goods at a reasonable price in the markets. These matters that we have ahead of us, in my opinion, will distort the market, as a result of which they will increase the price of goods. And I don't want to be any prophet like I'm not Sibyla, I think it's gonna end up like this, and eventually it can end up like the market is gonna overwrite and it's gonna look completely different. I will return to my amendments. One concerns the requirements of contracts, because it is also necessary to see what the practice of contracts concluded by suppliers with customers looks like. There are so-called annual framework agreements and the bill does not remember at all. I will then take the liberty of reading this amendment in a detailed debate. The second concerns sanctions that are set so as not to be liquidated, which correspond to the market environment in the Czech Republic and who has significant market power. In conclusion, perhaps a little more observation. You know, if another defense against selling low-quality food in these markets or food that doesn't have the proper level is that people won't buy it. There are countries where it works. If anybody thinks we're gonna make this happen by law, ordering people to do it, and that sanctions and frequent checks are gonna change that, they're not gonna change that. I don't understand. If I go to a pub where I don't like where they serve me badly or have bad beer, I'll never be there again. But these guys go to the markets. They just vote with their feet. So let's focus more on selling quality goods, and let's leave market regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u43	Good evening. I thank Mr Ivan Adamc for his contribution to the debate. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, at first reading, we discussed this bill quite often, and discussions at the agricultural committee convinced me that very little, because apparently many people did not understand what the government proposal here was about, or, say, together, coalition MEPs are trying to do with the Czech market, not only with food, but also with agricultural products as a whole, although we were unable to agree on the agricultural committee what was involved, whether it belonged to agricultural machinery or not. The petitioner was unable to disprove or make clear what was actually going on, what was to be feared by the supplier or the customer in question. Finally, there was someone there, I believe, that former Minister of Agriculture Toman, mentioned some WTO decree or where he pulled it from. However, it is not quite clear what this relates in detail. What is clear is that the state has decided that it wants to enter the two private entities with this bill, and the state has decided to say by its law what is still fair to the customer in terms of supply or suppliers and what is fair from the consumer to the supplier. To do this, he invents a very screwy bill that sets out other obligations, many narrow throats of this law, because in practice no one really knows what it will look like and what it will do. In any case, it will do so by increasing red tape, because everyone will have to be careful whether the law is such or not, whether our customers or suppliers do not exceed that law or that law. So at least there will be a number of legal issues that will have to be dealt with. So we're more likely to touch their costs. We do not just touch on the costs of large chains, but we will also reach into the costs of monitoring whether or not they have broken the law even for those small and medium-sized ones, which in their finals can extremely damage it on the one hand, on the other hand, they will have to include all the items relating to legal aid, etc., in the price of their products. So in the finals, they're gonna get worse on the market. Even the proponents of this bill say that prices are unfair and that it has to be equal and that it is not possible to make profits elsewhere. Although I can't imagine this in an open market if we are members of the European Union, we really want to do this. I'm saying this bill won't do it. The chains will just be able to find ways to collect the goods. But because they will have it complicated in the Czech Republic, our producers and producers will have a relatively expensive one, because they will also have to deal with things they haven't had to deal with so far, and this will, of course, be reflected in costs, then logically those to whom it is directed will reach for products where they will have it easier, maybe even cheaper in the finals. In short, the chains will buy more goods, I think it is obvious, beyond the borders of the Czech Republic, and that is in direct conflict with what we are saying here that we want to help small and medium. Some say it and some say it completely differently, because this bill will not only end up with the big ones, but it will solve the problem, but it will end with the little ones. On individual committees, but in any case, some amendments have been adopted to the Committee on Agriculture, which will make the Government's bill even more complicated and bring some practical problems that I will try to describe, and some of the pitfalls that need the government to know that it will also expose itself to possible sanctions if the bill goes through as some parts of the amendments say. The amendment proposes that Article I (3) (a) of Amendment 3 (a) should read as follows: (a) the method of payment of the purchase price and the time to pay it, the amount of the discount on the purchase price or the method of its determination, if provided, the maturity of the purchase price shall not exceed 30 days from the date of receipt of the invoice, the amount of all the cash transactions of the supplier whose total may not exceed 3% of the supplier's annual sales for the last completed accounting period of 12 months for the food delivered to the individual customer in the year in which the financial performance took place. [[18.40 hours]] I can already say that 95 percent of people won't know what I'm talking about. but this is a concrete proposal from one paragraph, which has been passed as an amendment. I am convinced that this is essentially an effort to regulate margins in the Czech Republic. And there we can come across some of the European Union's regulations, especially - a moment, I will find him somewhere... [[He's a book reader.]] Yes, the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the report by the Commission of the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the supervision of the commercial and distribution market. And it is called 'On the way to a more efficient and fairer internal trade and distribution market by 2020', where, in general, they warn of the attempt to regulate margins, when many Member States have tried to regulate a number of practices. However, in many cases these attempts have led to the creation of new barriers that restrict foreign businesses' ability to settle in a given country, which is contrary to the principles of the European Union's internal market. The government coalition is often inclined here when it says "we have to adopt this law, because otherwise sanctions from the European Union would come," so I'm just saying that we crystallize this possibility here if we adopt the amendments that have been passed by the committees. In addition, there are concepts such as cash transactions, and no one can properly say what such money transactions are. Whether the concept includes simple discounts or the concept of cash transactions includes only payments for services related to the supply of food, or whether it includes payments related to the supply of food and their advertising. Because even this way, the problem could go on and on, and then only lawyers can play with it, what's really going on and who's going to get hurt. I think the big ones won't, they'll manage eventually. But I really think it is aimed perhaps not entirely intentionally, but in any case it will affect small and medium-sized suppliers and customers in our country. At the same time, the amendment point says that the total sum must not exceed 3% of annual sales. But how will you in March 2016 know what your annual sales will be as of 31. 12. 2016? Will you know in March? Or April? Or will you use the terms that it will be for 2016 or 2015? How is the supplier supposed to know that it exceeds the 3% in terms of the volume of the entire trade in that calendar year? So you're going to count them backwards? What if he starts business in the middle of the year? Or some have different financial years. The accounting year may not only be from 1 January to 31 December. I don't know if the Minister of Transport here can, with all due respect, fill in as a petitioner, but the Minister of Agriculture is here, so he's actually going to explain to us how the 3% are meant. So what period does this apply to, and if it is so that I, as a supplier or a customer, should know that the three percent in March, with certainty on 31 December, will go beyond or beyond? Or if it's used during the previous period? But perhaps it will tell you, Madame, if the Minister of Agriculture knows, whether he is willing or able to answer it at all. In Article 1, paragraph 3 (a) of the amendment, at the end of point (b), the word "a' is deleted and at the end of point (c) the dot is replaced by a comma and the following points (d) and (e) are inserted: " (d) the period of the guaranteed validity of the purchase price, which may not exceed three months from the date of the first supply of the food for which the purchase price was agreed'. I think that such a restriction can and will actually lead to an increase in food as a whole, and therefore it is necessary to justify to people that we have done it, or by committing good in the Chamber of Deputies, we are some provisions of the law, which, and I often hear that the law on permanent market power is already in force, so we are simply a minor amendment. He's paying, but no one's really noticed because the market's dealt with it. These bills you're proposing will affect the market quite significantly. And I know that we're talking about this now in the area of what's about to happen, and that everyone thinks that maybe nothing will happen, or the world will be fairer. I think the big guys are really gonna find a way around it eventually. In the end, some small ones agree to respect the rules of the vendors, and they will have to follow them somehow. In the finals, it will certainly be more expensive for them. It is evident that suppliers will be forced to press the price at each such meeting because, given the high level of bureaucracy and the rules you introduce, they will have to reflect on the price of the commodity sold or offered to the supplier. There will be uncertainty created in my opinion by an absolutely unclear definition of prohibited negotiations in conjunction with sanctions that will cause the trader's position to be weakened against suppliers. What is relevant in Article 1 (4) of the amendment is replaced by a comma at the end of paragraph 2 and the following points (j) and (k) are added, including footnote 2: (j) the conduct of an audit or other form of control of the supplier by the customer or by the natural person or legal person responsible for the costs of the supplier, including the request for food analyses at the costs of the supplier, I underline how the market will develop beautifully when this starts to work, or, and adds, the failure to respect the results of official food control carried out by the consumer's state surveillance authorities. This amendment assumes that the control authorities, the State Veterinary Administration or the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority, are absolutely infallible. That what people often put on such tabs is true, and so on, that "if my wife is not right, point No. 2 - My wife is always right." In this case, everything will apply to the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and the State Veterinary Administration." [[18.50 hours]] We had a number of affairs in the past where the audit authorities, and I do not mean now the State Veterinary Administration, although there are sometimes mistakes, as is sometimes erred in the State Agricultural and Food Inspection, erring is human who does nothing, spoiling nothing, and although I think that our veterinarians or our State Veterinary Administration and the State Agricultural and Food Inspection are very professional, then it is not possible and it would be stupid to rule out that they are not able to make any mistakes, but then, as a result, it will be possible to liquidate some directly by saying supply operators etc. and only after a while to find out that someone was therefore removed from the market by some high sanctions by the error of someone specific etc. And I don't think we should let that happen. I would like to conclude with my brief resumé on this bill that the idea of regulating supply-customer relations by any law is at least a major stupidity. The market will find a way. When we discussed this on the agricultural committee, I asked questions such as: Who will control the contracts? If we have any idea how many contracts this actually applies to. Whether it's just for giving up, or whether it's gonna have a system. If the State Veterinary Administration or the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority picks someone completely randomly from those tens of thousands of business entities, it just seems to someone at random that it is necessary to come somewhere to check on the supplier-customer relationships, and completely randomly starts to check on someone who is either the enemy of someone on the market or is a friend of someone on the market. I wanted to know if there was a system, or if we were clear whether it would be the UOHS, or how many people would accept the UOHS. I was told that the IOHS will manage, only that the IOHS does not yet have the right legislative conditions and that this will finally be the pearl in the Czech legislation, which will ensure that there will be fair remuneration within the supplier-customer relations. I haven't been answered. It was said that it would just be good and that it was okay, and we walked away from it. So I was the only one who voted against this bill in the agricultural committee, but sometimes being against myself is more than nothing. I think that our customers will be especially grateful for this soon, because it will be about tens of thousands of business entities, maybe hundreds of thousands, but in any case tens, but in the finals, customers will not praise the Chamber of Deputies because sellers, suppliers and customers will tell them who is responsible. And if it hits the market, you better be damn sure! Food will become more expensive, a number of business operators will be eliminated from the market. Maybe that's the intention, maybe the proponents of the law really want it - why we should have some small and medium-sized food entities here or selling agricultural projects, we need to throw them a pitchfork into their business, for he already has someone through big companies to arrange it. I don't wish it. Those of you who raise your hand for it, you're basically saying that's the right way to go. I don't agree with her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u45	I thank Mr Bendl for his contribution to the general debate, and I am now asking Mr Michal Kučera, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we see how important this amendment is, how important this amendment is, on government benches behind me. This amendment is being presented by the Minister of Transport today. I note that the amendment is called an amendment to the Act on Market Power in the Sales of Agricultural and Food Products. I don't see much of a connection with the Ministry of Transport, but I seem to have missed some things. I don't know why the Minister of Transport doesn't sit on the site of the Minister of Agriculture, who I suspect is currently in the cafeteria. The fact that the law on significant market power has a discriminatory character has been said here several times. So far, no one has answered the question of why this amendment applies only to traders. This question was raised during the first reading, several times during the discussion on the Economic Committee, and also at the second reading. The fact that we don't expect answers at second reading is clear from the cast behind me, and the Minister of Transport won't really answer. I really don't blame him. But the fact that we have not even learned the answer to this question from the Prime Minister, the promoter of this amendment, is really very disappointing to me. Indeed, the competition authority pointed out the market power of large suppliers. We all know that in the original amendment, the market power of the supplier was mentioned. According to the Competition Authority, at least the original proposal, it was desirable to provide that the supplier could also acquire significant market power. Why this fell out in the end, and this relegated and discriminatory amendment of the law has arrived in the House, only coalition MPs really know this, or I don't even think that everyone, perhaps just some government officials. On the contrary, I would like to say that, contrary to the original amendment, the possibility of punishing the chains has been tightened by the fact that the fine no longer has to be paid for continuous violations of the law, but it can also be fined for individual offences. I can really answer the question of why, which has been raised here several times, I can only answer myself - because Agrofert. I can't really think of anything else. I therefore welcome the amendment that my colleague František Laudát has tabled here, who is trying to restore balance to this otherwise unnecessary and unnecessary amendment. I would like to quote one of the essential passages of the amendment with which my colleague František Laudát from TOP 09 came. I quote from my colleague František Laudát's amendment: There are products that are unique or dominant on the market and thanks to which... Sorry. It's paragraph 3 - significant market power: 1. A significant market power is such a position of a customer or supplier, as a result of which the customer or supplier may, without a fair reason, impose an advantage on the other Party in connection with the purchase or sale of foodstuffs or the receipt or provision of services related to the purchase or sale of foodstuffs. I think this is the centre of gravity of the amendment, which seeks to reverse the discriminatory nature of the government amendment to the Act on major market power. The fact that products that are unique or dominant on the market, thanks to which suppliers have an exceptional negotiating position, is perhaps clear to all. Likewise, there are suppliers with almost monopolistic positions in the region. And they can make an extremely good use of that advantage. [[19.00 hours]] As well as the entire TOP 09 club, we do not support this amendment to the Act on Market Power. We consider the amendment to be unnecessary and we have also proposed rejecting it. The same role as this law can be very well implemented by the competition protection law or, where appropriate, by its amendment. However -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-06-ps2013-033-01-004-002.u47	Ambassador, I'm very sorry to interrupt. However, please interrupt your speech at 19 o'clock and we have placed a different, fixed point for this hour. So I am very sorry, you will continue to discuss this bill later, interrupting House Press 444, second reading. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. There's a fixed point for today's 19th hour.
