ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 /German press 617/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš will make the proposal. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the draft law on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016, which was approved by the Government on 23 September 2015. The basic data submitted by the State Budget Bill for 2016 are presented in this form -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u3	Minister, I'm sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you, and I'm gonna ask you to move into the lobby because we're in the state budget, and then you're gonna want to discuss it, and we can't hear each other in this noise. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u4	It's okay. I'll read it. [[Thank you.]] So state budget revenues are CZK 1180.9 billion, state budget expenditure CZK 1250.9 billion, which means the state budget balance is CZK 70 billion. For 2016, the state budget deficit of CZK 70 billion is proposed, which is CZK 30 billion less than the approved deficit for 2015. The balance of the government sector is reduced from minus 1,9 % in 2015 to minus 1.2% of GDP in 2016 and the structural balance of the government sector is reduced from minus 1.8 in 2015 to minus 1.4 percent of GDP in 2016. The medium-term budgetary objective of the Czech Republic, which amounts to minus 1% of GDP, should be achieved in 2018. Now let me introduce you to the basic macroeconomic characteristics of the draft state budget for next year. The macroeconomic framework of the State Budget proposal for 2016 was drawn up on the basis of data and information known by mid-August t. r. the Czech economy thrives. Its performance increased dynamically during the first half of this year mainly due to growth in consumption and investment. Further maintenance and growth intensity will depend on both internal and external factors. Outside our economy, it depends on the stability and economic development of trading partners. In the domestic field, this means adequate economic policies that respect the economic cycle. In this context, I would like to stress that we do not plan to increase the tax burden in addition to the taxes already notified on tobacco products. The world economy continues to grow, but it remains regionally very uneven. Moreover, concerns about slowing the growth of the Chinese economy and its impact on the rest of the world have increased significantly in recent weeks, which has shown considerable fluctuations in financial markets and commodity markets. Energy commodity prices are not rising against previous assumptions, Brent oil is trading below $50 per barrel, which is clearly positive for us. The economic development of the euro area in the first half was in line with expectations. However, revival is still fragile and uneven across countries. States like France, the Netherlands, Austria are near stagnation. Other countries, including the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Estonia, Latvia, are growing dynamically. Low interest rates and the policy of the European Central Bank contribute to supporting economies. On the other hand, there are still significant imbalance factors, particularly the high debt of the government sector. Moreover, there is an increased risk of escalating adverse geopolitical events that could potentially disrupt the global boom. The Czech economy significantly increased its output by 4.2 percent in the first half of the year. However, this development is largely influenced by one-off and temporary factors. This is mainly a fall in oil prices in half, a strong improvement in the use of European Union funds and fiscal support for economic growth, particularly in the area of investment. Real GDP will rise by around 4 percent in 2015. Growth will be driven by domestic demand. In 2016, we expect a similar growth structure based on domestic demand. However, one-off factors, such as the annual decline in oil prices and the massive absorption of the allocation of European funds from the past programming period, will wear off and the economy will return to its normal output, so we expect GDP growth of around 2,5 percent. Low inflation will accelerate in 2016. 2015 is under the influence of the year-on-year decline in oil price. The impact of administrative measures on inflation will be almost neutral. Against the increase in excise duty on tobacco products, the introduction of a second reduction in the VAT rate and the abolition of most health charges. The average inflation rate could thus reach about 0.5 percent. Domestic demand and probably higher oil prices should be acting pro-inflationaryly in 2016. The effect of regulated prices will be neutral. The impact of the reduction in VAT in food services should be approximately compensated by the expected price increase in response to the introduction of electronic sales records. The average inflation rate should increase by 1,5 percent. Employment growth in the labour market and the decline in unemployment rates in both 2015 and 2016. Together with the growth of the economy, we also expect improvements in the labour market. In employment in the context of economic growth, we expect an increase of around 1% in 2015. In 2016, the increase should be slower. [[9.30 hours]] We also expect positive developments in terms of the development of unemployment rates. In 2015 the annual average should reach 5,7 % and fall further to 5.5 % in 2016. The slower improvements in the labour market in 2016 are linked both to the moderate growth of the economy and to the increasing qualification and regional mismatch between supply and demand for work, which can be documented by the increasing number of job vacancies. The development of the current balance of payments account for the Czech economy poses no risks. Here we expect increased growth of both export markets and export performance. For this reason, we expect a slight surplus of the current account balance in both 2015 and 2016. The Ministry of Finance continuously monitors the forecasts and opinions of institutions mostly of the private sphere and of international institutions dealing with macroeconomic analysis and forecasting. Based on the comparison with these independent forecasts, it can be concluded that the macroeconomic framework of the State Budget proposal for 2016 is very close to the consensus macroeconomic forecasts based on these institutions' opinion. Now I would like to introduce you in detail to some of the titles of the revenue pages of the state budget in the proposal in 2016. The revenue from taxes and charges is estimated at 619.7 billion. Crowns. Tax revenue for 2016 is increasing by 44.6 billion compared to the 2015 budget. CZK and in comparison with the approved outlook for 2016 there is an increase of almost 30 billion. The simple tax quota, which covers only the tax revenues of public budgets, amounts to 18,9 per cent. A compound tax quota of 33,5 % of GDP. Tax revenue includes: control reports, there is an impact of 6.3 billion. koruna plus. Electronic record of sales - impact 2 billion. plus. The reduction in the VAT rate for the segment of restaurant and hospitality services to 15 per cent instead of the current 21 per cent is the impact of 400 million. minus. Introduction of a three-year timetable for raising excise duty rates on tobacco products, excise duty with an impact of 3.3 billion. koruna plus. The adjustment of the mandatory formation of re-evaluation funds in the financial sector with an impact of less than 300 million. Increase in discount on second and other children compared to 2015, by CZK 100 per second child and CZK 300 per third and another child, with an impact of less than CZK 500 million. Crowns. Re-establishing discounts for working pensioners and kindergartens, this is a continuation of 2015, is the impact minus 1.1 billion. Crowns. Increase in the share of regions in the total gross yield of VAT, so-called RUD, from 7,86 percent to 8,92 percent, impact minus 3.7 billion. Crowns. This is currently being discussed in Parliament with the proposed effect from 1 January 2016. Revenue from social security contributions and contributions to state employment policy is budgeted at 422 billion. and represent a year-on-year increase against the approved collection this year by 21.3 billion, i.e. 5.3 %. Revenue from the budget of the European Union and the financial mechanisms are included in the budget by 94.5 billion. Crowns. This is in particular revenue from the Structural Funds of the European Union and the Cohesion Fund for the implementation of the joint programmes of the European Union and the Czech Republic, and revenue for the implementation of the measures under the common agricultural policy. Compared to this year, there was an increase of 5.8 billion. Crowns. In the draft budget for 2016, revenue from state-owned enterprises in the amount of 6,9 billion is budgeted. CZK in chapters of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Transport, as well as income from privatisation accounts to compensate for the deficit of the pension system of 11.7 billion. Crowns. Now let me introduce you to the state budget expenditure. Total expenditure for 2016 is proposed at 1250,9 billion. Crowns. On the expenditure side of the budget is one of the most important expenditures monitored by the state budget. For 2016, they are budgeted at 708.2 billion. CZK and account for 56,6 percent of the total expenditure of the state budget. Among the most important mandatory expenditures are social mandatory expenditures, the limits of which are as follows: Expenditure on pensions shall be financed at the rate of 400,7 billion. CZK with annual growth of 1,5 % compared to expected reality 2015. The annualisation of pensions on 1 January 2016 will be in accordance with the applicable legal situation of Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance. This means a 100% increase in consumer prices and one third of wages will be taken into account in the valuation. It is also considered with a one-off pension contribution of CZK 900 in February 2016. Expenditure on sickness insurance benefits will continue to increase in relation to wage growth from which it is derived and the development of morbidity, to an estimated amount of 24,7 billion. Crowns. For the payment of the State to the health insurance scheme, appropriations of 63.1 billion are budgeted. Crowns. The monthly payment of the State to the public health insurance scheme will be increased from CZK 845 to CZK 870 per person per month. Expenditure on non-investment non-benefit transfers from European Union funds shall be budgeted at 10,9 billion. CZK in 2016. Social services subsidies and other subsidy and similar schemes have been strengthened. For 2016, investment expenditure on retirement homes under the jurisdiction of the regions has been reinforced. Furthermore, the budget includes expenditure on state social aid benefits, physical aid benefits, care allowance, unemployment aid payments and active employment policy. I would now like to mention other expenditure areas of the state budget. Expenditure on salaries and other payments for the work carried out by the State's organisational units and from the contribution organisations shall be financed in the amount of 149 billion for 2016. CZK, which represents an increase of 10 billion. compared to 2015. The increase in civil servants' salaries by 3% and civil servants plus another 2%. The allocation to the Fund for Cultural and Social Needs was increased by half a percent for 2016 to the total allocation of 1,5 %. An increase of 1 % is budgeted for the following years, i.e. an allocation of 2 %. The increase in the salaries of judges and prosecutors - an increase of 9,2 % without the influence of the newly established salary base according to the Supreme Court decision by 2,4 %. The increase in salaries of other constitutional officials is 14.1% without the influence of the newly established salary base, as decided by the Supreme Court, by 7 percent. The increase in the number of posts compared to the 2015 budget is 13 329, of which 7 065 seats in the organisational units of the state and 6 264 seats in the state contribution organisations. This year's increase is mainly due to the increase of 5 811 places in regional education in connection with the growth of pupils, 1 083 places to deal with migration and refugee issues, 1 257 places to solve the concept of the Czech Armed Forces and to secure cyber defence, 354 seats in the General Financial Directorate for EET Solutions, 168 seats at the General Directorate for Customs to extend competences in the field of criminal proceedings and the EET agenda, 444 seats at the Office of Labour and the State Bureau of Labour Inspection on the Issues of Illegal Employment, 300 seats in courts, assistants of judges and higher judicial officials in the chapter of the Ministry of Justice, 49 seats in the State Agricultural and Food Inspections due to the extension of competences, 105 seats in the State Land Office, 93 seats in order to establish three new contribution organisations - Písek studiny, Tlumačov and Zemědělskýmědědědělský servis, 80 transfer places for diplomats, 25 places in the Czech Environmental Inspection Expansion, 18 seats in the Czech Trade Inspection, 40 places in the Consumer Protection Act, 40 seats in the Energy Regulatory Office - Extension of Control Office, 12 places of the Office of the Government Office of Research Area of Innovation. Expenditure on research, development and innovation is included in the total amount of 35,7 billion. CZK including funds from the European Union. The share of these GDP expenditure for 2016 will be 0.77%. The expenditure on export support, including the increase in the Czech Export Bank's capital, is budgeted in a total volume of 4.7 billion. CZK by destination for the Czech Export Bank and EGAP. In the context of the present Lottery Act, expenditures have been increased by 500 million. CZK 1 billion in 2016 and 2017 and 2018 to support sport activities. [[9.40 hours]] In the field of culture to finance the National Cultural Treasure Programme, funds of CZK 1 billion are budgeted annually in 2016 and 2017. The amount of CZK 800 million is spent on film incentives. Expenditure on the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments and investment by contributory organisations for the restoration of state cultural facilities and regional cultural facilities, for the promotion of live art, for the promotion of culture of national minorities and for cultural heritage owned by the state supported by European funds has been increased. In the field of transport, the subsidy for the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is budgeted at CZK 208 billion for 2016. Expenditure of CZK 260 million is intended to compensate for fare discounts in 2016. Expenditure on the payment of the loss of public service obligations in public rail passenger transport is budgeted at CZK 7,14 billion per year between 2016 and 2018, of which CZK 2,77 billion per year for the regions and the capital of Prague. Expenditure on optional programmes of the ESA European Space Agency has been increased by CZK 200 million. The expenditure of the Ministry of Defence chapter is CZK 47,8 billion for 2016, amounting to CZK 52 million for 2017 and CZK 57,2 billion for 2018. The share of these GDP expenditures is around 1 % up to 1,14 percent. The funds for measures related to the migration situation in the Czech Republic were increased by CZK 1.1 billion. Expenditure on security measures in the Czech Republic has been reinforced. Expenditure on the financing of voluntary firefighters' activities has been reinforced by CZK 250 million. The subsidies for renewable energy sources are budgeted for 2016 at CZK 20.4 billion. Expenditure on the eradication of the consequences of mining activities, technical downturns, support for strategic investment actions and the building of industrial zones, technological centres and centres of strategic services has been reinforced. In the chapter of the Czech Telecommunications Office, funds are spent to cover net costs representing an unfair financial burden to the holder of the postal license for the Czech Post office of CZK 700 million. Expenditure on the common agricultural policy is proposed for 2016 in the amount of CZK 36,3 billion, with the largest item constituting direct payments of CZK 24 billion. In support of rural development, the budget amount is CZK 11.5 billion, of which CZK 4 billion represent the state budget of the Czech Republic for co-financing and CZK 7.5 billion are state budget funds, which will subsequently be covered by revenue from the European Union. The funding of the programme will increase from 25 to 35 percent. In the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development, expenditure on tourism promotion, housing support, municipal planning activities up to 3 000 inhabitants, expenditure was increased by CZK 1.5 billion in 2016 to co-finance the integrated regional operational programme. In the chapter of the Ministry of Environment, budget revenues from the sale of emission allowances amounting to CZK 5.7 billion and current expenditure are at half the amount of these budgeted volumes. The second half is budgeted in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to promote renewable energy sources. In the chapter of the Ministry of Justice in addition to salary adjustments, capital expenditure and operational expenditure of the Prison Service and expenditure on expert opinions following the new Civil Code have been updated. The funds for securing the amendment to the Act amending Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended, and for the acquisition and operation of an electronic monitoring system in criminal justice are calculated. The government budget reserve is designed to amount to less than CZK 3.8 billion, i.e. 0,3 per cent of state budget expenditure. The expenditure of the government debt chapter for 2016 is CZK 52.8 billion. In 2016, a relative stabilization of the share of government debt per GDP is expected, and at the end of 2016, state debt is expected at CZK 1 733,7 billion, the share of government debt per GDP at the end of 2016 should be 37,3 %, i.e. that it continued to decline, we had 41.3 % by the end of 2013. Finally, I would like to say that this budget follows our deficit reduction strategy in order to have a balanced deficit. It is a budget that supports the growth of our economy, it is a countercyclical budget, which, even if it looks like we are doing well, and we are doing well, the question is sustainability of growth, it is responsible for future generations, and at the same time it continues to unplug the economy, invests and motivates consumption. So I dare ask you to support this state budget and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u5	Thank you, Minister. The President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered the draft law to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. It is the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies number 39. The Committee on Budgets has tabled a resolution which has been distributed as House Press 617/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, colleagues, I would like to introduce you to the budget committee resolution number 316 of 14 October 2015 on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016. It might be a little longer, so please be patient. The Committee on Budgets at its 29th meeting of 14 October 2015 on the first reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016, House press 617 after the opening words of the Minister of Finance, the Committee's Chairman's report and the budget committee after the debate I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 at first reading: Chamber of Deputies: 1. Approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 according to the House press 617 which are the amount of revenue fixed at CZK 1 trillion 180 billion 856 million 787 thousand CZK 167, the amount of expenditure fixed at CZK 1 trillion 250 billion 856 million 787 thousand CZK 167, the difference between income and expenditure, which is the balance set at CZK 70 billion. B. Method of settlement of the balance by these financing components (a) increasing the state of government bonds up to CZK 70 billion 635 million 100 thousand; (b) change in state financial assets accounts by an increase of CZK 635 million. C. Financial relations of the state budget to regional budgets, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, contributions amounting to a total of 1 billion 69 million 972 thousand 700 crowns. D. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of municipalities with the exception of the capital city of Prague in total by region, namely subsidies and contributions of a total of 7 billion 517 million 337 thousand 044 crowns. E. The financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, namely contributions of a total of CZK 833 million 725 thousand CZK 300, F. Appointing the Minister for Finance in Section 2 (1) (b) 1, 2, 3, including the possibility to change the amount of total revenue, total expenditure and other indicators mentioned herein and to the extent indicated, the authorisation of the Ministry of Finance to proceed in determining the amount of contributions to the performance of the state administration to individual municipalities and the capital city of Prague pursuant to § 1 para. 10 Annex 8, all in the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016, according to the House's Press 617. [[9.50 hours]] II. He notes that the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 (a) contains financial relations with the budget of the European Union, namely the expected revenue from the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 92 909 566 387 and contributions to the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 40 500 000 000, (b) determines the extent of the insurance capacity of the Export Guarantee and Insurance Company, a.s., amounting to CZK 230 000 000 000 and the amount of the subsidy to supplement its insurance funds CZK 2,200,000. III. It commands to discuss the chapter and headings of the government draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 in this way - I will not read it with permission. Individual committees and chapters are listed here. Two. It empowers the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Václav Votava to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which I have taken the liberty of doing. Madam Vice-President, otherwise I am reporting for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u7	Thank you. And now, please, to the Prime Minister's microphone, after which Mr Kalousek will be prepared with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u8	Good morning, honourable Members. The state budget is undoubtedly one of the most important laws that the Chamber of Deputies is discussing in a given year, and this is undoubtedly also one of the most important things that our current government and the government coalition have been able to agree on. I am convinced that the debate on the state budget, which we are officially starting today on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, cannot be conducted and organised as an accounting exercise. I think that debating the subject should give - it makes sense when Parliament is discussing the state's final account. This is a draft law on the state budget, and the budget is a key instrument of government in every country, every democratic state, in terms of economic policy, and a key instrument of government, in terms of addressing the problems that the government wants to solve and for which it has decided. The Czech Republic is experiencing very strong economic growth. The economy is expected to grow by around 4% this year. Fortunately, unemployment is also falling. Unemployment has reached around 6 percent, and it is indeed a very good result. On the other hand, it is important to note that we are experiencing such massive economic growth this year, among other things. because we have the last chance to draw money from European funds. I would like to say here that this strong economic growth is only here because of the smart policies of the current government, but it is not. [[Laughter from the right.]] It's not like that. I am convinced that our government is making a big contribution to this, but it certainly does not have the responsibility to see the economy grow this way rocketically this year, with the exception of the only thing, and that is speeding up the use of European funds. [[Laughter from the right]] The fact that we are pumping up European funds this year is a key indicator that supports economic growth and promotes employment. I point out this precisely because it is good to realize that in the next year there will not be such a strong impulse. We have done everything possible and impossible to start drawing European funds this year. You know that we had to make a series of difficult compromises with the European Commission in order to achieve the approval of operational programmes. In the summer it went well, the ministries are putting out calls, applicants reporting. The whole cumbersome process of drawing European funds is starting to start. But next year will certainly not be the peak in terms of the financial perspective we find ourselves in. Our goal is to spend as much as possible next year, but it won't be the year of peak draw. This year is the year of the top drawdown and, of course, it has a strong impact on the economy. That is why it is very important that the state budget, as it is presented, should count on the promotion of economic growth. Because next year, only European funds will not provide economic growth. It is very important that the state budget actively contributes here. I say this because we often hear criticism from the right - you should cut more bravely, the economy is growing recordlessly, so why you need a deficit of 70 billion. Crowns. It is precisely because it is important not only to look at statistics, the numbers of economic growth, but it is also important to look at the structure of how much of this growth is pulled, for example. by one-off pumping up European funds, which have simply failed to exhaust for various reasons in recent years. That is why it is important for the budget to have its pro-growth character, and I therefore stress that the debate on the budget is not an accounting exercise, but it is a debate on the key instrument of economic policy of the government. I am glad that the public budget deficit will fall next year in the Czech Republic. If the government expects the deficit to be somewhere around 1.9 percent of GDP this year, the deficit is expected to be somewhere around 1.2% next year. This is well below the 3% limit agreed by the government coalition as the maximum public budget deficit. So next year, deficits will be close to 1% of gross domestic product. We will undoubtedly be among the better half of the European Union in terms of the state's economy and the pace of debt. But our goal is not only to have good parameters of the budget deficit. The government's aim is for economic growth to continue next year. The government's goal is to maintain low unemployment next year as well. When we look at unemployment numbers, this year's numbers are very good. The trend is positive. The unemployment rate is dropping. But we have huge divisions here. We still have 440 thousand on one side of the job records. People. On the other hand, we have 110 thousand. job vacancies in the Czech economy, which are announced by entrepreneurs and announced by businesses. There's a big contradiction here. And one of the government's policy objectives next year, and we also need to use the funds to do that, is to try to mobilize the maximum of the more than 400 thousand. people in the register of employment offices to take advantage of this favourable situation in the labour market and to find their jobs. This is one of the biggest challenges facing our government - to take advantage of economic growth and to do much more to reduce unemployment especially in structurally affected regions such as the Moravian-Silesian Region and such as the Ústecký Region. I would like to mention the main priorities on which we have agreed and which draft budget contains. The first thing I want to stress is the question of promoting investment. There's been a lot of cuts in recent years. It was often cut across the board, and I must say that it was cut off in the worst places. The classic case is transport infrastructure and investment by the State in transport infrastructure. I believe Petr Nečas, the Minister of Transport, named Bárta, was here in the government. And Minister of Transport Bárta stopped preparing all motorway constructions and all express roads in the Czech Republic. Thus, we have gained a huge delay in terms of a number of these buildings and unfortunately, thanks to the cuts of the then Minister Bárta, the assessment of the buildings will make it more difficult for us now according to the amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Unfortunately, it has had very negative consequences, which we will also deal with in the coming years. Our government will not repeat this mistake. The government's aim is that we allocate sufficient funds to prepare transport structures so that we can design so that we can buy out the land and once the buildings are ready to start the construction really. Thus, investment in transport infrastructure is also a key priority in the area of investment. [[10.00 hours]] The second key priority is co-financing of European funds. If I was talking about starting drawing on new funds, it is important that there is enough money in the budget for co-financing to really get the fund going. In terms of investment, I would like to mention a third important priority, and these are investments in the capacity of kindergarten and primary schools. Where their capacity is not sufficient, where stronger population levels take place, the government is ready to lend a helping hand to the municipalities and continue investment programmes with regard to primary schools and kindergarten schools. So priority number one - supporting investments next year. Priority number two is a question of social aspects of the state budget. It is not just that this is a political priority, that we agreed in the coalition that we would do a socially fair policy, that we would behave towards people, but it is also a consideration of household consumption. When we proposed an increase in salaries in the state budget for this year, when we pushed for an increase in pensions for this year, we also promised ourselves a certain recovery in household consumption. I'm glad the recovery came. This year, in addition to European funds and, of course, exports of our industry, consumption of households is another important driver of the economy. A certain consumer optimism has been awakened, and this also helps to achieve the good numbers of economic growth. I would like to continue to support household consumption in the form of government social measures next year. Public sector employees' salaries are increasing. For people who work in the public sector, such as teachers, police officers or firefighters, the government has decided to increase wages by 3% since November 1. Naturally, the increase will be maintained in the next year. I am glad that the budget includes an increase in payments for state insured persons, because this will allow us to increase health care workers' salaries, doctors, nurses' salaries by 5% from 1 January next year. You may wonder why there is a difference between raising salaries for public sector employees and raising salaries for health care workers. I suggest we get started in rural hospitals. I suggest we get started at hospitals that are on the German border. You will find that we are starting to have a very strong problem of wage competition, not only with Germany, but also with Slovakia today, where salaries, for example, have increased, and there is no possibility of obtaining medical staff from Slovakia as it was five years ago. We need to increase health care salaries faster so that patients in the Czech Republic can be treated at all. Therefore, an increase in salaries from 1 January by 5%. What I consider to be very important is that we are returning to public sector employees some of the money that Nečasův' government has taken from them when they cut salaries, so I consider another important area of social policy to be the value of pensions next year. Here's the situation. Our government, when it came to power, one of the first changes that we made here in the Chamber of Deputies, was a change in pension valorisation. According to the old rules, pensions were audited from one third according to inflation and according to one third of the growth in real wages. We've changed it, which means pensions are being revalued according to inflation of 100 percent. This means that we have taken more account of price developments than we did in previous governments. But the problem is that inflation is extremely low. The problem is that wages have barely grown in recent years. This was also involved in the policies of previous governments. This valuation scheme means that pensions will grow only by about CZK 40 next year in the framework of this valuation. This is a very low valuation, which is why we decided as a government to compensate old-age pensioners and in February a one-time pension allowance of CZK 900 will be paid. It will therefore be paid in February - we originally wanted to pay a contribution of CZK 700 in December, but unfortunately the right here in the Chamber of Deputies has blocked the accelerated discussion of this proposal and the nearest time we can pay a one-off contribution is February 2016. So it will be lower valorisation, the government could not influence it, we are valorizing to the maximum what the law allows us, but in order to compensate old-age pensioners for the situation, we will provide a one-time pension allowance of CZK 900 next February. I would also like to mention another important issue concerning social stability, particularly with regard to the care of our elderly with regard to the care of the disabled. It is extremely important that the regions, which, according to the new system, are already responsible for the distribution of subsidies for social services, have enough money to co-finance these social services. This concerns senior homes, this applies to various residential and lightening centres, but of course it concerns social services that are provided directly in the home. I am very pleased that we finally agreed in the government and that I can inform the House that the same amount of funds as provided this year has been retained for social services next year. This means that there will be no cuts in subsidies for social services, and the regions will be able to divide the same amount of funds as they distributed this year. That, I think, is another of the important parameters of this bill on the state budget. Speaking of regions and public services, I am glad that the budget also takes into account the change in the budgetary determination of taxes. We're going to vote on the law here in a short time. Budgetary determination of taxes is something that will also help improve public services. The fact that we will return to the regions of 3.5 billion that have been taken from them in the past means that the regions will have more money for health care, social services, two- and three-way communications, and this will be particularly positive towards citizens in individual regions. I think that when they talk about RUD and they say that money gets to the regions, the key thing is to realize that money gets to citizens through the public services that get to them. And one last thing. There is a question of education in the area of social stability. There has been criticism in recent months that the government is said to be increasing the number of officials and that we are increasing the number of officials by several thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, the teacher is not an official, a police officer or a soldier is not an official. The fact that we are increasing the number of teachers next year has to do with the fact that we have growing children at first grade primary schools and that we need to have children who can teach. That is why we will be funding more teachers from the budget than we are funding this year. Not officials, but primarily teachers will be added to our state's payroll next year. The third important priority I want to mention, and we should not forget it, is security. We spent tens of hours here in the House this year debating the security situation, tens of hours discussing the migration crisis. There's no way the government wouldn't respond to that. The budget is a budget for strengthening security. I'm being clear and clear. Yes, we're increasing defense spending by several billion crowns. We're increasing the costs to the police, increasing the expenses to the Secret Service. These are areas where the government has an obligation to guarantee security for citizens. I'd like all the budget critics to remember the assassination in Paris. What did you say after the assassination in Paris? That the security service's capacity should be increased. What did you say when the migration crisis came? That we need more cops in the foreign police. What did you say when the crisis came in Ukraine? That we need to increase our defense spending. We did it in the budget. This is a budget that has security as its priority. We need to respond to the migration crisis, we are responding. We have to respond to the threat of terrorism. In this budget, the government is responding. Let me give you one last priority, it is not much to talk about, but it is important that we actually consolidate public budgets. I am very pleased when you look at the comparison of the Czech Republic with other countries, we are among the countries that reduce the share of public debt in gross domestic product. This hasn't been here in years. We are improving, that is, from the 44 percent of the public debt to GDP that we had, we are decreasing and approaching the 40 percent share of public debt. There are not many countries in Europe that are able to proceed in this way without bringing drastic cuts to citizens. And we don't make drastic cuts, but we consolidate public finances. [[10.10 hours]] It is also worth noting that, with the exception of higher excise duty on tobacco and with the exception of higher tax on gambling, we do not increase taxes. On the contrary, we have reduced taxes. This year we reduced value added tax to medicines and books, also increased tax discounts for families with children and should increase next year if we manage to approve the relevant bill in time. We've returned to the working retirees, the Minister of Finance has already mentioned it, we've returned their tax credit. This means that we have reduced the tax burden on a number of population groups, increasing the tax burden on harmful things, whether it is tobacco or gambling, and otherwise, in principle, the tax burden stagnates. That is also what I think it is important to realise when we are debating the level of the deficit. And I am also glad that this is a budget that is already building on the government's activities in the fight against tax evasion. This is a tough battle in the Chamber of Deputies, part of it has been fought by the government, and next year's audit reports will work with regard to value added tax payers. Part of the battle is still here - I mean electronic record of sales. I firmly believe that, in the end, electronic sales records will be approved and will help the government to increase tax collection and reduce tax evasion next year. So we're going the way of active measures against tax evasion. And I want to say that for the government, the arsenal and the scope of the measures have not been exhausted, that we are ready to have a debate on how to make the fight against tax evasion even more effective so that there is no tax fraud in our country. What will contribute to the revenue of the budget will not only be those measures against tax evasion but also the abolition of the second pillar. I firmly believe that this year, too, will finally be approved here in the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. At the end of my speech, I would like to ask you to support the State Budget Act. It is the budget that the Czech Republic needs. It is a budget that will bring stability to the Czech Republic in the troubled times that we are experiencing around us today. It is a budget that supports growth and employment, promotes the good functioning of public services - I mean education, health, social services. It is a budget that will strengthen the security of citizens and our state. It is a budget that reduces the deficit, and it is a budget that allows tax burdens to fall for many groups of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and once again I would like to appeal to your responsibility and ask you to raise your hand for this draft law on the state budget and add your vote to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u9	I thank you, and with priority right, please go to Mr Kalousek's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, Mr Finance Minister, dear debtor of my ten million, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, at the beginning of my speech, to deal with the Prime Minister's claim that the government is consolidating public budgets. Surely you will agree with me that the parameter that shows the government's true will to consolidate public budgets and save or not to save is the so-called structural deficit, i.e. a deficit that has been cleared from the economic cycle and from extraordinary revenues. We've been handing over the structural deficit, according to the current numbers of the Ministry of Finance, we've been handing over the structural budget plus, or if you want to go to zero. Just an updated number of the Ministry of Finance gives the figure plus 0.2. We took it to minus 3.7, which amounts to more than 150 billion crowns, and handed it over not even in balance, but even in a slight zero. It was a relatively rapid pace of consolidation. We had a number of reasons for this rapid pace, and we were very critical of the pace of consolidation, that it was too fast and it undermined economic growth. Okay. I don't think so. I think there was a reason for this speed, but I don't consider myself the bearer of a single truth, and I'm happy to take criticism, or I'm going to take it as a relevant criticism that it was a pace too fast. But even the critics of this criticism, i.e. Keynesian theorists, that in times of recession, the government should commit fiscal impulses at the cost of deficits, so they should remember that this theory also has its B, that in times of economic growth, surpluses are to be created to create reserves for possible further fiscal impulses when a recession comes, as it will undoubtedly come. We are at a time of very decent economic growth, as the Prime Minister has already mentioned, and yet you are creating a deficit. And when do you want to do the excesses, please? And let's compare it to where you took over the public budgets, and I say again, I stress again, these are the figures of the current finance minister, we passed the structural deficit to moderate plus zero, and the government is planning a structural deficit of minus 1.4 for 2016, and the difference between our handover and your plan for next year, and that is the difference of 1.6 percent of the structural deficit, which happens to be about 70 billion crowns of nominal deficit that you are planning for next year. If you really consolidate, you're in a high structural surplus. If you hadn't ruined our job, you'd be at zero. But you've made it 70 billion worse. That's how you consolidate public budgets. I agree that it is not only a question of the level of deficit, whether structural or nominal, but that the internal structure referred to by the Prime Minister is very important and stressed how the budget is pro-growth. He has not mentioned this fundamental structural problem, which is burdened by the Czech state budget, he has always been and frankly has it in common with all the countries of the European Union, and that is the amount of mandatorial expenditure. Even here, of course, the government is achieving a sad primate, because the 2016 budget will have historically the highest number and the highest share of mandatorial spending, without the government having tried anything to do with structural expenditure during the two years it has been carrying out its mandate. The opposite is true. The few reform steps that have been implemented in the field of sickness, social security, participation in health insurance have been lifted, this structural problem has been aggravated in public budgets, and there is no signal that you want to address this fundamental structural problem in public budgets. [[10.20 hours]] It's just that there's mandatory expenses here, and we're gonna raise them, and he's gonna be able to handle it. Someone after us will once again have to introduce higher participation in health insurance, more responsibility, more participation, because without more responsibility and more participation, this problem cannot be resolved. But you leave him to those who come after you. You're not doing anything except canceling the few steps we've taken! There's no point in asking us now to change anything in the composition of the mandatorial expenditure in the 2016 budget. This may surprise you, but we too, although the opposition, wish that the state budget be approved to 1. 1. 2016, because a country without an approved state budget is an unstable country with a wide range of disadvantages, including a reduction in foreign investors' confidence, and any changes in mandatorial spending are only possible on the basis of a change in laws and legislative process, if we are now in mid-October, completely rules out the relevant changes to the laws so that the structure of the mandatorial expenditure can change. So I'm just going to limit myself here to saying that there's nothing we can do about it, this money at the historically highest level of mandatorial spending, we're just going to have to pay off next year because it's legal, and I'm just stressing that the government has made this situation worse and doesn't intend to improve it. Definitely no step in which she would like to deal with the amount of mandatorial expenditure. We don't know. The public doesn't know either. So let's go to optional spending, i.e. those that the government can actually influence by its decision in a few days or a few weeks, and let's stop by saying that the budget is pro-growth, frees investment and supports science and research. Well, in 2011, in times of recession and in times of criticism of today's government parties that we invest very little, we invested 119 billion. CZK, in 2012 we invested 114 billion. CZK - and you budget 77.7 billion for 2016. Crowns. Are investments really your priority? Again, in 2011, in a time of deep recession, we invested 119 billion, in a year we invested 114 billion. and you're planning for 2016 77.7, i.e. 78 billion, and you're calling it your government priority, and you're releasing investment against us. These figures are the sum of EU and national resources, so it is fair to show it to national resources - that is, the same comparison, not to show it, but to make the same comparison to national resources, when our government invested 48 billion in 2011, invested 48 billion in 2012 from national resources, and you are planning to invest 44.5 billion in 2016. The comparison here isn't so dramatic, the difference isn't so dramatic, but still, even though you're at a time of growth, and even though you're saying that you're releasing investment against us, you're planning to invest less than we've invested in times of recession and times when you could've been tearing down critical sentences that we've invested little. Ladies and gentlemen, for those who may not have listened until the beginning, I repeat, I do not quote resources other than the open sources of the Ministry of Finance. All these figures are verifiable both from the draft state budget that we are discussing and from other open and publicly available sources of the Ministry of Finance. So I've dealt with your claim that you're consolidating public budgets. Compared to us, you have aggravated the structural deficit by 1.6%. I have dealt with your claim that the budget is pro-investment and pro-investment, and I dare to show you on your own figures that you are planning to invest less next year than we have from national sources and from mixed sources - national and EU - invested at the time of the deepest recession, even though we are quite decent economic growth in the period. So where are the priorities? Are they in science and research, as the Prime Minister proudly said? I don't think so! For quite a long time, the scientific community has sought to make spending on science and research exceed at least 1% of GDP. We were getting close, and because there was a recession, we didn't succeed. In 2012, we were able to allocate 0.97% of GDP - in 2012 - to science and research, and you are planning 0.77% of GDP for 2016. Of course, it's almost equal in absolute terms, because we're at a time of growth, so today's GDP percentage is more than our GDP percentage, but you can't say it's your priority when you're reducing the percentage of GDP to science and research. That's just nonsense, that's ridiculous! So where is it really? It was 2013, before the elections, and then Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek at the Chamber of Commerce held a discussion with a number of other candidates for the elections on austerity or inconvenient government policy, and the then leader of the ANO movement came forward and critiqued me completely the opposite before criticizing social democracy, and said: Don't tell us you're saving money! You're not saving any money! We entrepreneurs at personnel costs, we have to save a lot more on traffic than you do, and you've only saved 15 percent! You're ridiculous! There are tens of billions more. I could save tens of billions more and you can't save. These words have been spoken and are recorded. I considered the criticism unfair and too unlearned, but I understood it a little bit as a righteous outrage of an entrepreneur who employs people who really have to save on personnel costs and who thinks that the state is still too upset and that I could save tens of billions more than I saved back then. You promised - we'll work, we'll save, we'll reduce personnel costs. After all, that is what all governments have promised since 1990 that they will save on volume, on state employees, and that personnel costs will be reduced, and every time there were deficits and you asked every political party leader before the election: on what do you want to save on? Of course, the state officials, the civil servants, to make more money for the people. So how'd it go? We handed in the number of civil servants - yes, there are all: teachers, firefighters, policemen, but also officials - to 413 600 people. Rusnokův's government has taken the luxury, in my opinion, of completely unnecessary luxury, because the new tasks are to be handled by the efficiency of the system. If I need more people in security, like I need to, I have to spare them elsewhere, just like every businessman in his wound is acting, we're... So Rusnokův's government took the liberty of creating another 3,000 jobs and handing it over to 416,600 people. This government has quickly increased it by an additional 8,000 to 424,000, and for next year you are planning an increase of almost 13,500 to 437,000 people. So this graph looks like this. [[He's pointing.]] It's not a line anymore, it's an exponential! [[10.30 hours]] When the Prime Minister tells you that it's the firemen and the teachers, for example, colleagues from YES, take a look at the chapter of your own Minister of Finance. I was able to reduce personnel costs by about 15 per cent, and the effectiveness of the system was quite satisfactory within all EU countries. The current efficiency of the Ministry of Finance is falling, there is no doubt about it, the mess is extraordinary there, only that it cannot bring a government proposal to the Chamber of Deputies on time, and plans the Minister of Finance for next year - and these are not teachers, they are not firemen, Prime Minister - to take new 638 people into his chapter with personnel costs greater than 1 billion. - 1.1 billion.! I've never run a company, but I've only been on the board of several companies, and I know that if my CEO came to me and said: our efficiency is falling and I want to accept the new 630 people and increase over a billion personnel costs in the budget and in cash flow for next year, we'd throw him out the window as a board of directors. I have no doubt that the owner of Agrofert Babiš would have fired his boss, Mr. former director, today's environmental minister Brabec, would have confirmed that he would have fired you too if you had come to him, that you wanted 638 extra people to Lovochemie and 1.1 billion. additional personnel costs. This isn't from foreign blood, this is where the taxpayers pay for it. Here's the real government priority, ladies and gentlemen! At the state's personnel costs! You've been able to raise it by 20 billion since 2012. Kč. Once again, when you convince the public of both saving and personnel costs, on the absolutely least pro-growth item, on the other hand, you increased your claims to the taxpayer by 20 billion. Kč! You're investing less than we're investing, or at least that's what you're planning for next year, investing less than we're investing, but 20 billion. You will pay more personnel costs. And you have the courage to call it a growth budget. You have the courage to say you're saving. We also hear a lot of media success about how we bought cheaper paper, whether in printers or toilets, as we fly cheaper and buy cheaper services. Well, let's compare it to the numbers you submitted to us and the ones you want us to approve. Buying material is growing. It's growing more than 1 billion against last year, and it's growing more than a billion more than your food year, even if you say you're saving. It's more than 2 billion against our cost of material purchases. Buying services is growing. The total expenditure is rising against your last year's food year to buy services, growing by 1.8 billion, rising by 3.8 billion against our budget. Energy. I didn't notice the energy was going up. Yesterday we read in the paper how the energy is cheaper for God's sake. Buying fuel, water and energy is growing! It's only growing by 160 grand against your last year's food, it's growing by almost a billion against us. But everywhere in the paper, we read how you save energy. You're not saving any money! Buying materials, services, energy, you want more money for next year than you could spend this year, and I'm not going to compare that with us. You want billions more than we spent at a time when Minister Babiš was walking around the Czech Republic saying: As long as the packers don't rule us, they're completely incompetent, we'll save money. But the costs are rising! Why are they growing? Because it doesn't really matter to Minister Babiš. Because the most important thing is another item that I really don't consider to be pro-growth, and it accelerates the most. And that item in the budget is called non-investment subsidies to business entities, that is, what the state budget gives to private entrepreneurs. "Non-investment subsidies to business entities" is very long, the professional public usually shortens it in the talk slang as the "Babiš self" item. Against last year, you want to increase this item by 8 billion. Kč. In 2015, the year has not yet ended, but it can be assumed that a non-investment subsidy of 44 billion will be granted. And for next year, you're planning 52 billion, 8 billion. That's more than it is. You and Secretary Marksová are proud not to have a billion for the disabled. I would also understand you if you could also save money on the purchase of materials, fuels, energy, and especially on the subsidies. Since 2012, you've been able to increase this item by 46 percent. Yes, there are also direct payments to farmers, sure, there are also subsidies for photovoltaics, sure, and there are a number of other items. Of course, these direct payments are negotiated on EU soil to suit the largest entrepreneurs in the agrifood complex. And who's the biggest businessman in the agrifood complex? In other words, ladies and gentlemen, you're not saving up anywhere. If you do, tell me. Maybe the minister will say, "I bought cheaper paper." But if you add up the purchase of material for the entire government, you just want to spend more. A lot more than we spent, and a lot more than you're gonna spend this year! You say you invest, and you want to invest less. Both from national sources and from totals you want to invest less than we invested between 2011 and 2012. And what is a real government priority - because, please, pretty political priorities are budgetary priorities. If any minister or administrator of the chapter calls you "I support this, this is my priority," then look into the budget chapter first. If he's really putting a lot of money in there, it's really his priority. If he says it's his priority, and he's giving it little money, he's deceiving himself, maybe even himself, in any case the public, and in any case us, whom he wants us to approve the budget. Because the real priorities of the budget are personnel costs that accelerate in a completely unforgivable way contrary to all the pre-election promises and non-investment subsidies to business entities. I repeat: we are constructive opposition. I can't ask for a reduction in the mandatorial expenditure if we're in mid-October. I'm just pointing out that you've made things worse and you're not doing anything. I can only ask for a little responsibility and a little less enthusiasm in those expenses where you can actually save in a few days or weeks, because that is what the government can decide. These are operating expenses of the State and non-investment subsidies to business entities. I believe that much more money can be found in the operating expenditure of the State and in non-investment subsidies to business entities than I propose. He has heard in public sources that colleagues from the ODS will propose 30 billion. [[10.40 hours]] I think that this is even more, but I respect some political limits and at least the twenty that the Minister was able to distribute over the holidays compared to his original June proposal, at least the twenty would be nice. As you know, according to the Rules of Procedure Act, the budget is not rejected at first reading. Either they go into second reading or they come back with a recommendation on how to redo it, which is why I will allow myself, on behalf of the TOP 09, to submit the following motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies returns the draft Act on the State Budget for 2016 to the Government for recasting. Recommends the following changes to the government: 1. expenditure and deficit reduced by at least 20 billion. koruna, 2. to find savings mainly in operating expenditure of States and in non-investment subsidies to business entities. Time limit for the submission of a new proposal 20 days after delivery of the House's resolution to the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u11	Good morning, dear colleagues. I thank President Kalousek and ask him for the motion for a resolution. Thank you. Since the debate hasn't been opened yet, I'm opening... I'm sorry, my colleague informed me she wasn't yet, but I'm opening it now. I am opening the debate and the first person to come forward with a point of fact, Mr Jiří Dolejš. Following him with priority rights, President Stanjura and rapporteur Votava. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u12	Really factual, because, given my order, I may not be able to get to me by lunch or after lunch, but when I heard the surge of arguments that are of course very precise, but only where it suits me, so I didn't take the table from the budget, and I didn't look at how it was with the mandatorial expenses, and in vain fame, but it's worth pointing out if the share of 56,6 percent of the mandatorial expenditure is proposed in 2016, so in 2012 - we remember who the finance minister was - that was 56,7 percent, or one tenth percent more than proposed in 2016. So, nominally, the mandatorial expenditures for previous governments, and even under governments around 2006, were at a lower level. So I guess we wouldn't have to argue that way. The mandatorial expenditures are neither higher nor lower, which I do not question the debate on structural deficit, but the figures are just that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u13	I thank Mr Dolejš. With a factual remark, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u14	I do not question Mr Dolejš's figures, I believe I was talking about the nominal amount. If not, I apologize, but, of course, 57 per cent at the time of the recession and 57 per cent at the time of growth is a little different coffee and a very clear information about the government's failure to address the structural problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u15	I thank Mr Kalousek. With Mrs Chalánková's point of view. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm going to be quite quick, because now that we're talking about mandatorial expenses, I'd like to say that in the area of the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where we have a total of 423 billion revenue. CZK, but expenses 544 billion. CZK, so that's where the mandatorial expenditures grow by 9.930 billion year on year. CZK and it is a share in the chapter of the total expenditure 94.48 %. Indeed, the total amount ofmandatory expenditure in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is 94,48 %. And the year-on-year increase, and I would like to point out, is the year-on-year increase in exactly the mandatorial expenditure in this chapter as a time bomb is 1.57 percent - year-on-year increase. And otherwise for completion, in this chapter, we have expenses of 544 billion, but income of 423. This chapter is missing 121 billion in the budget. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u17	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková, for her point of view. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. After him, Chairman Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In the flood of numbers we heard as in the speech of the Minister of Finance, Prime Minister, Chairman of the TOP 09 of Mr Kalousek, we could get lost. Whoever has had the time, and I believe that many of you are already reading individual chapters, so the debate on individual chapters, more detailed, will undoubtedly be in second reading. I will only comment on the basic parameters of the budget and where we see the biggest mistakes the government is making. On the other hand, we're not surprised. If you remember how it worked, what the state budget results were at the time that the Prime Minister was the Minister of Finance today, then who would expect a radical change when he becomes Prime Minister of Finance, he would be disappointed, of course. It is a continuation of the policy resources are, delaying, constantly delaying efforts to have a balanced or surplus budget. Of course, it is better to say in 2014 - zero will say in 2017, in 2015 - zero will be in 2018. I would like to forecast that when this government comes in with the next draft budget, it will say that zero will be in 2019. Well, who wouldn't like to have a balanced state budget in three years, except that the date, the starting date from which the three years count, is constantly postponed. This year we are experiencing relatively strong economic growth. Very often we have a debate with the Minister of Finance on the Committee on Budgets, which is the main cause. I think that this debate is not over and that we will continue to lead it when the final figures for 2015 are over, we will continue to debate which factors most affect GDP growth, whether it is stock growth, the logical massive drawdown of European money in the last year. Remember, when the money was held, it would pay off in the last year, and that would be the case for every government. I do not want to question, however, the government's efforts to exhaust itself as much as possible. Certainly not, and I think that is also an obligation and that at this point the government is doing relatively well. We also have to say that when we add the underdrawn money, we have to consider a dramatic exchange rate change about two years ago, when the original allocation was in euro, and when you suddenly have two crowns more to the euro, the total volume that we have to draw is growing in those Czech crowns. And I am glad to hear from all sides in this public debate that there is no longer a key motto "we need to draw out every euro, not even a crown" and it becomes a key motto "we need to have good projects." I think that this is a good position and we should maintain it throughout the whole new programming period and think that good projects are more important than spending resources at any cost, because very often European money goes to areas that then automatically generate operational expenditure in the coming years, especially in the public sector, whether at the level of municipalities, regions or the state. The drum has to repeat the basic parameters. We are particularly criticizing the fact of a high proposed state deficit of 70 billion. in the period when the government is forecasting - and I have to say that the forecasts fit, that is, the basic parameters of 2.5 percent GDP growth, 5.5 percent unemployment, inflation 1.5 percent, these are data on which the vast majority of institutions agree, not only government but also independent, so we will not question the figures. I want to appreciate the quality of the material. Anyone who wants to, they'll find all the information. We are debating the political award of the budget, which is actually a matter that, first, the government and we can influence by legislative changes both on the income side and on expenditure side, and then how they divide the expenditure into which chapters they are concentrated and which are growing. [[10.50 hours]] Unfortunately, it is true that the basic revenues and expenditures are record-breaking in the history of the Czech Republic, the highest revenues and, at the same time, the highest expenditures. Let us say that there is an increase of CZK 62 billion in income alone, and the vast majority of it consists of tax revenue. At a time when we, as the opposition, come up with proposals to abolish meaningless taxes that are too administratively demanding and have relatively low yields, whether it is about 5 billion for road taxes or 9 billion for real estate tax, the government normally says in its opinion: we can't afford it, the state budget doesn't have it. At the moment when we propose to return VAT rates to 19 and 14 percent, as was before the introduction of the second pillar, we will learn in the Government's opinion that the state budget does not have resources for this. Then you will look at the draft state budget and you will find that there is an increase against this year's expected reality, plus CZK 17.5 billion, which is an approximate figure that corresponds to our proposals, and that is what we agree with the Ministry of Finance when we estimate the impact of reducing the taxes we propose on the revenue of the state budget. So if we were to work with the current VAT collection, we have space for the 17 billion, or 15, to leave the taxpayers. And the government decided not to. So, first of all, it is not true that there is no room for tax reductions, on the contrary. In the years when the economy is growing, tax revenues are automatically increasing, there is room to leave money to taxpayers. And that is the first ideal, or if you want an ideological conflict with the government, which says: It is best to support the economy, that we will increase the expenditure of the state, whether in the area - and that is what the government focuses on - wages, salaries, the number of officials. And we're saying, and that's the idea or ideological argument that it's better to leave the money to taxpayers, and then it's very likely that they themselves will voluntarily put the money in the economy, depending on what they consider necessary, whether it's companies that can invest on the one hand, on the other hand, they can raise wages, or individual citizens who spend the money that the government will leave them with. And this government unsurprisingly, because it is primarily implementing a social democracy programme, it believes that it is better to take the money and then distribute it wisely. This is the fundamental clash between the right and the left, which is eternal, which keeps repeating itself and which has also been signed in the draft budget. When the government says - the Prime Minister said so in his opening speech on this point that the government is increasing investment activity, so again, thanks to the material we all have available, you have a comparison at least since 2012. You can all look at how it was budgeted for 2012, 2013, 2014 we already have the reality, we have the budget for 2015 and whoever wants to look at the performance in 9 months, these are the numbers that are known again. And when we look at the draft budget, we find that investment against the 2015 proposal is essentially stagnating - 77 to 75 against last year's proposal, and against the period of years of crisis, when the economy has stagnating or declining slightly, is dramatically lower than some year here by 30, which is 40 billion. Where's the investment activity? If we look, and the Prime Minister was talking about investing in transport infrastructure, so the secondary material, not the state budget, take the draft budget of the SFDI for 2015, number 94 billion, take the draft budget of the SFDI for 2016 - about 30 billion lower. We understand why it is that this year, or next year, there will be much lower revenues for transport constructions from European sources. No one's questioning that. But instead - if we want to have such a high deficit - so that this blackout, logically, I point out, would happen to every government, actually de facto it will be the first year when it can be drawn, especially in those transport buildings it is not so easy, they usually have a longer period, so instead of the government adding it from national sources, it has de facto left national resources to transport at the level of previous years and the failure of European resources - it is not. In addition, and the Prime Minister said very well, there is a complication with the new EIA law. Let us remember the debate we had here, as not only we citizens of the Democrats pointed out, but many others said that the adoption of this law could slow down the construction of transport infrastructure. If you have the right information, we are in real danger of delaying key buildings by years. Whether it's D11, R35 or D3. For those who do not work with it daily, in principle, the transport constructions were planned under the three laws. The first law that we adopted before our accession to the European Union, when we did not really have to have any EIA, and some of the key buildings that I was talking about, R35, D11 or D3, for example, bypassing České Budějovice, have the EIA from the time of this first law. Then the second law, which has already in some way responded to the obligations of the Czech Republic, applies this year's new law. According to the reports available to me, some officials in Brussels have decided that if we have a valid EIA, for example, a territorial decision or a building permit, according to the very first law, and that is for the three key buildings, and I think that there is no dispute between the coalition and the opposition that R35, D3 and D11 are key constructions, that they will require a completely new EIA assessment under the new law. Optimists say it will be two years late, pessimists, that it will be four years late. But even that two-year-old is awful. So our decision-making in other laws, of course, has an impact on both the state budget and the real drawing of those resources. Last year, when we criticized the State Fund's budget for transport infrastructure, we said it wasn't nice to have 95 billion, but we thought it was unrealistic to exhaust them. We said that this is the marketing number that the Prime Minister and some ministers are praising - we broke it this year, from year to year we increased spending by tens of billions. Well, we'll wait. I saw the last material the government had at their disposal, I feel it was in mid-September, drawing funds from SFDI, and no one is happy about it. Neither government nor opposition, because transport constructions are not a matter of classical political conflict. It's a matter of common interest, common priorities, maybe sometimes we argue about instruments. By the way - because here I see colleagues from the government benches - we have submitted a draft amendment to the buyout law. Let us remember how the Prime Minister celebrated them, as we warned that the chosen method was not happy and that it could cause complications, and today, together, coalition and opposition MEPs, we are trying to make amends. That is why I mention that it is sometimes good to listen to the views of the opposition, especially in those things that do not constitute a classic political conflict, whether they are taxes, social or health systems, and maybe to resolve this in time, not to deal with it with an amendment within a year and a day. It is beyond the debate today, and I will still have the opportunity, but I believe that the government will not allow its negotiations to interpret that the old EIA will not pay and will have to follow the new ones. Because who has ever experienced this in smaller buildings in the village, on the edge or on the state, so knows how long the process is, how often, for ideological reasons, the ideological opponents of the buildings artificially block it and prolong it, and thus, of course, not only the citizens of the localities concerned suffer, but the economy as a whole, transport service, increasing the competitiveness of the territory, if there is good transport connections etc. I repeat: the government, instead of replacing the blackout from European sources, which is logical, did not find the resources. But she found resources for a dramatic increase of 9 percent in two items - private subsidies and salaries. And when we talk about the mandatorial expenses, on the one hand, we have mandatorial expenses, they're mandatory by law, and thank you again, there's a clear development, someone can use absolute numbers, someone can use relative numbers, that it's a ten-dollar lower, on the other hand, but it's billions higher, but then we have something we call pseudomandator expenses, and to that you have to add those salaries. I recall the 2015 budget, when you, the government coalitions, increased the spending from year to year by 10,5 billion, and as we warned, it was not one-time, extraordinary, but regular. We have a new base plus 10.5 billion, and in the coming years, some kind of index method is going to be that one, that two, that three percent. And if I were to come out of a theory that doesn't apply that it's not going to increase by a crown, then in four years of governance, or in three years, 2015, 2016, 2017, that's 31.5 billion for the current operating expenditure of our ministries. And then you say there's no room for deficit reduction, respectively. a faster deficit reduction, and that there is no room for tax reductions. [[11.00 hours]] We have a similar debate on spending on science and research. Once again, we can use some criteria. Either an absolute number, or, and that's a very popular parameter, which always justifies those departments that want to increase, and it was for every government, the share of these expenditures on GDP. In each resort you will find a country in the European Union that has more in that particular issue. So we're going to learn that there's a larger percentage of GDP spending in the health sector, here in the social system, and when we look at the share of spending on science and research on GDP, we see that even though the government is saying how it supports it and that it is its priority, it's going down from 0.98% to 0.77%. And if I wanted to use some kind of dramatic number, and if you let me do some rounding, and I say it's from 1% to 0,75 percent, we can see that the drop in four years is by 25 percent. Here you can see for yourself how with those numbers that we agree on, how different interpretations can be. Some say it's a billion more than last year. Some say it's two tenths less than last year or last year. And we can say, in four years, it's gone down by 25 percent relative to GDP. And all the numbers are right. As the very successful British politician Winston Churchill said: I only believe in the statistics that I forge myself. Or which I choose - if I didn't want to use such strong words. Another popular item, and the government thus claims and the Prime Minister, in particular, supports the economy by increasing wages in the state sector. And I would like us to distinguish two variables in this debate about salary in the state sphere. Average salary and total wage expenditure. I say for myself, and for us, there is no problem raising salaries for those in the state sector who perform well. And there aren't many. What we're criticizing is that the total volume is increasing. We're not talking about a single salary, an average salary. Better, and for example, we, as well as colleagues from the ANO movement, wanted a small, slim, effective state. We agree on that. Some, at least. Others on the left think the bigger the state, the better. This is the ideological dispute that I fully respect. The worst part is, I always say when I want to lighten it up, it's not that they say it, it's that they really believe it. That's even worse than what they call it. Because that's not how it works. Then the productive sector, the real economy that produces the values that the state then collects from, whether it's taxes, social and health insurance contributions, so the number of people in this sector is shrinking and the number of people in this non-productive sector is increasing. So we say, yes, salaries are supposed to rise, that's okay, especially when the economy is growing, but not as the unions and our left imagine. All the same! That's what you always hear. There's always an increase in tariffs! Now the government has raised tariffs since November 1st. If only it were just for those civil servants. But many of us have colleagues in cities, towns and regions. That's where you raised the tariffs for the officials. But you didn't add a penny to these communities! So what's the point? The law must be respected, the tariff is a claim file, which means everyone gets plus three percent. The moment I don't have the money and I can't have it at all in November, when the end of the financial year is coming, what will the secretaries of the municipal authorities, the directors of the regional authorities do? Well, it lowers a file that's not eligible. Personal valuations and rewards. And again, it's at the expense of the better, harder, those who deserve a higher salary. And the volume of resources is increasing: 9 percent. The economy is 2.5. Compare only these two numbers. But if we were to say, they're increasing wages by 10 percent, but the total volume remained the same, what does that mean? We will have high-quality employees, they will be well rewarded and we will be close to what many are talking about: a small, thin, efficient state. I don't know which of the ministers, members of government or government Members is ready to come here and say: we have an effective state today. I don't think so. And the way is to reduce the number of regulations, bans, checks, reports, constant communication. The state has all the data, it doesn't pass them on. Again, this is a problem that concerns all governments. You might say, "You didn't do it either!" That's the favorite you guys didn't do either. [[unintelligible]] Yes, I admit, not many have done well in this. At least we were reducing the total wage volume, or at least keeping it on the same level. We reduced the number of jobs, so there was a chance that the average wage or wage would increase for those who are really efficient. The Minister of Finance is very pleased to say that he has reduced the total debt of the Czech Republic. We're having a dispute again, I think it's an accounting operation where the reserves that count for it are reduced. In this material, however, he himself admits that the debt of the Czech Republic will increase roughly by that deficit. It's logical. The provisions that have been created are abolished, so the generated deficit will be added to the current deficit. Maybe we could lead, and that's because it's a aggregated number, a debate about how the government came up with that plus 63 billion. income against this year. The number is quite massive and there is a risk that the budget will not be implemented. Because the deficit is 30 billion lower. it was created by increasing expenditure by 33 billion, I'm sorry, rounding it up, but revenue has increased by 63 billion. And the state itself doesn't generate anything. That means the taxpayers will pay for it. Plus 63 billion. And you're saying, there's no room for deficit reduction, there's no room for tax reductions. The opposite is true. I could compare the various chapters here, and I'm sure my fellow Members will do that on the committees, and I'm sure we're going to have that detailed debate. We will propose a resolution to return this material to the Government to recast, with a recommendation to reduce it by 30 billion. Crowns. On the other hand, we are political realists and we assume, unfortunately, that neither our proposal nor any other part of the right-wing opposition will pass. So we're going to have a detailed debate. Now that I've talked about the two amounts, because when you say cut the deficit, you have to show me where. I'm sure you'll get the 30 billion. We'll bring the second reading. And we're going to say, this is what we think is the amount that the state could save. We're going to be looking for a deficit reduction on the expense side. We will not come up with a proposal to increase revenue by 20 and thus the deficit. [[unintelligible]] That's what we saw that summer. The Minister of Finance gradually accepted them, other colleagues from the government, and suddenly 20 or 22 billion were found during July and August. plus. So there is no problem to make during October and November again the 22 billion. it returned to the original proposal with which the Minister of Finance, I think in June, went to the first meeting of the government. That means we can reduce the deficit. If we let go of the revenue, we can talk about the $22 billion. expenditure to which cover has been found during the summer, in the autumn, to take back, without the government not fulfilling the part of its programming declaration at all. It doesn't bother me, because I didn't vote for the government's trust, so I didn't vote because I believe the government will fulfill its programming statement, but there's a sentence that the government will carefully assess and verify all the mandatorial expenses. Last year on the budget, we said we'd like a report. But the report is one thing, the other is a specific legislative proposal. And he's nothing since the election in two years! No proposal was made by the government to reduce the mandatorial expenditure. The government, and it is in line with its ideology and belief, focuses on how to take as much as possible, redistribute as possible. Of course, by redistributing, you commit those who are beneficiaries of the state budget, and it is at the expense of those who contribute to the state budget. [[11.10 hours]] Very often, when the government wants support for a legislative proposal, it is based on the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce. This time I did not hear what the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic said about the draft budget. I think we all know why. The Chamber of Commerce claims: Instead of using the period of economic growth of the Czech Republic to consolidate public finances, the government is actually wasting it. The Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic is also dissatisfied with the development of expenditure in support of research, development and innovation. Furthermore, the Chamber of Commerce claims that money should go on investment rather than increasing the number of civil servants. If you so often argue with the relatively helpful opinion of the Chamber of Commerce on the EET, try to take into account the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce on the draft state budget. In other words, it says the same thing as we do: Economics grows, you don't reduce debts, you waste opportunity, you don't give enough money for science, research and innovation, you don't give enough money for investment. So if it seems to you that this is just the opinion of the opposition, you can see that we are not alone in this, that it is also from a party where you might not expect such criticism. And the very last point, because I said I didn't want to go into details. Benefits in material distress. This is a system to support the poorest. How does the government treat the poorest according to the draft budget? It increases expenditure on these benefits by 7 per cent. Seven percent! Yet, the government claims how it supports especially those who need the help most. The rhetoric does not correspond at all to the proposal and, of course, especially in the second reading, colleagues in the Social Committee will debate this item very closely. So what's the deal with the government's social policy? How is it possible that the dosages for the most needed are increased by 7 percent? That's what I'd like to hear. But in conclusion. I could paraphrase the position of the Chamber of Commerce, but the fundamental reservations that the Minister of Finance has heard on the Committee on Budgets, and I want to say that, for example, From the Minister of Justice, who has not yet been seen at the IDA, the Minister goes to the budget committee for the most important laws, we have the opportunity to debate there, so we told him that we will not go into detail, but that the main reservations are: too high deficit, too high operating expenditure, too high wage lifting, low investment spending, low spending on science, research and innovation. These are the reasons for which we cannot vote in favour of releasing the budget for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u19	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur and chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would also like to comment on the draft budget for 2016, not only as a Member of Social Democracy, a coalition Member, but also as chairman of the Committee on Budgets. I will not be as long as my colleague Stanjura, who, of course, carried his speech in the criticism of the draft budget, it is legitimate, that is why the opposition is to criticize the budget, although not always the truth must be in it, of course. I would like to say that the state budget is, above all, an instrument that allows the government to implement economic policy, and I would also like to start by saying a few words to the budget preparation process. I would like to stress that practically all the time the state budget is being discussed, virtually. its preparation, familiarisation with the work process and consultation of the social partners, namely representatives of both business associations and trade unions. I think it's significant. This has not always been the case in previous years. The draft budget presented includes, of course, the results of basically a six-month discussion in the government coalition, so it is a compromise budget, because, of course, the parties of the government coalition can have a different view in the preparation or in the preparation of the budget for some things, but, of course, consensus is important then. I could imagine sometimes more resources in the health sector, in the social sphere, that's different. Like I said, it's a compromise budget, and I think it's a good budget. Thus, the first stage took place in spring, and there were some parametric changes in the summer, when the budget was considerably restructured between the chapters, as an example I can indicate a significant decrease in expenditure on debt service, but it also meant a certain extension of the overall budgetary framework. The draft budget on the revenue and expenditure side was increased by CZK 94.5 billion from the European Union's resources and financial mechanisms, and by another less than CZK 18 billion from domestic resources, mainly related to improved economic situation and positive developments in tax collection. All this, of course, while maintaining the state budget deficit of CZK 70 billion. And we are going to a balanced budget, so we have to say, of course, with gradual steps and a structural deficit that is constantly being pointed out, so for 2018, it is planned to be in the deficit, i.e. 0.9 per cent of gross domestic product, and according to Brussels rules the balanced budget is essentially expressed in the structural deficit minus 1 per cent, so we are basically going to a balanced budget. The draft state budget is therefore based, as I said, on a gradual deficit reduction of 1,2 % in 2016 to 0,6 % in 2018 in the ESA 2010 methodology, based on the assumption of a conservative assumption of GDP growth by 2,5 % in 2016. Perhaps I would touch here, or I would like to comment on what Mr Kalousek said as a previous speaker. It's a structural deficit, it's his kind of mantra. He is constantly stressing 2013 when the structural deficit was essentially 0.2 plus, so it was not a deficit, but we were essentially moving to zero. I would like to say that he could not have had any significant impact on what the structural deficit looked like in 2013, because it was mainly about the fact that the economy was relatively in a deep production gap, about 3% of gross value added, there was a significant surplus in the management of territorial budgets, there was also a surplus in the management of health insurance companies, there were no investments in the volume of approximately CZK 17 billion. Of course, all of this had an impact on it. So I think that kind of Minister Kalousek here praises other people's feathers that, in fact, he couldn't have had that much influence on it. It is even paradoxical that in May 2013, in the fiscal perspective, he planned a deficit of less than 2,4 % of gross domestic product for 2016 and the 2016 budget presented by the current coalition government, so he expects a deficit of 1.4 percent of gross domestic product, i.e. 1 % below. So that sounds pretty weird to me. [[11.20 hours]] In the context of the State Budget proposal for 2016, the government coalition of opposition is often blamed for the fact that the deficit is too high in the current high growth of gross domestic product and should be around 50 billion. Or even lower. I think, and we believe, that these considerations must also be strongly rejected. We believe that a sharp reduction in the planned deficit in half or perhaps even more, as the opposition proposes, would reliably hinder the economic growth of the Czech Republic. This economic growth, please, did not fall from the sky. In fact, high growth in gross domestic product this year is a clear and clear consequence of this government's economic policy, and the Czech Republic is the second fastest growing country in the European Union. That's right, that's real. Fiscal consolidation and economic growth are, of course, joint vessels, and too much pressure on the one hand is causing problems on the other. The economic policy of the State must therefore be carefully balanced by the two parties. In our view, the current development of the economy and the growth of gross domestic product cannot be interpreted as requiring a much faster, more rapid reduction in deficit. There are relatively significant risks to future developments that are beginning to occur in recent months, the signaled slowdown in the world economy, certainly the influx of refugees we are dealing with, and this certainly advises us to stay low. I think it has been a lesson enough for us when the previous right-wing government has driven the economy to where it has driven it, and we are just taking our breath away from the effects of the global recession. And we certainly would not want that economic growth, which was so well started, to be held back and down. Of course, we want to consolidate our budgets. We want to approach balanced budgets, but not jumpingly without taking all the risks. I want to do that again. Because the sharp jumps and recesses belong mainly to the gym. The 2016 budget, as well as the previous 2015 budget, is certainly aimed at promoting economic growth, in support of both state investment, particularly in transport infrastructure, in building industrial zones, particularly in areas suffering from high unemployment and in support of school capacity, kindergartens - the Prime Minister spoke about this - and, above all, in support of population consumption as a significant factor that strengthens growth. As far as investment is concerned, we are sure that next year will not be easy especially for the launch of the new programming period 2014 to 2030. All the more so, it is necessary to focus on the maximum possible use of the budgeted funds in order to make good use of them. In this context, I would also stop at what Mr Kalousek said about investment. Well, he always talks about investment, of course, only says A, and he doesn't say B. He basically counts on himself when I call it that, to invest everything, and with the current government, he only counts what is budgeted or what is stated on the investment in the state budget, 77 billion. He is no longer counting on the fact that, of course, funds from the European Union are included, that there are claims from unused expenditure, that funds include funds such as SFDI etc. So then, of course, if he's counting pears with apples, he's just adding pears with us. So I think it's very incorrect. It must also be said as it was before when he was Minister of Finance. One thing was to plan the investment in the budget and then make use of the investment. It's pretty obvious there, just like it was. A number of funds have simply not been used. It did not use it because it was completely unprepared, for example, in transport infrastructure, etc. That's not bullshit, Mr. Colleague, that's true, that's absolutely true. [[Looking to the right]] I know you have your graph that you always show. You show all the time. You know how to manipulate graphs and numbers. Anyone can do that, of course. So I think the truth is, of course, somewhere else, and you don't want to say it anymore. I was talking about household consumption. Thus, an increase in household consumption will certainly be supported primarily by wage growth in the budgetary sphere, but also by a further increase in tax advantages such as families with children. The Prime Minister here spoke of the fact that unfortunately next year, according to the valorisation key, it does not come out for our seniors, for our pensioners, only by 40 crowns. Therefore, we also expect that the one-off compensation will be about CZK 900 in February. But the coalition is still thinking about how to adjust the valorisation key so that even if there is very low inflation, which has a significant influence in the valorisation key, the increase in pensions would be higher. On the revenue side of the state budget, the state budget also envisages the first positive benefits related to the programme to combat tax evasion. The fight against tax evasion is certainly the priority of this coalition government, not only the fight against tax evasion, but the fight against the grey economy itself, and therefore the revenue side of the state budget is already counted, for example. with additional revenue from the already approved control report, which has passed by legislatively and which since 1. 1. 2016 will be implemented. It also envisages revenue from the upcoming electronic recordkeeping of sales for 2016 of 2 billion. Crowns. In the years to come, if the race succeeds, it should be about 10 to 12 billion. Crowns. I think it's significant funds for the state budget. It must also be appreciated that the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports was significantly strengthened during the final phase of the state budget discussion, but the resources for the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence were also strengthened. Of course, we know what the situation is like at the moment, with migration, and we need to increase the means for the country's security and defence. End of závěr. We believe that for the next year, a very well-developed budget has been presented, a budget that balances elements towards further correction of public finances with measures which significantly correct the overall economic and social environment and with a budget supporting growth in income and employment of citizens of the Czech Republic. Again, I would point out that this budget was already in its preparatory phase, practically throughout the preparatory phase, consulted with the social partners, and therefore, while some partial comments were received from them, the draft budget for 2016 is also supported in its basic concept by employers' representatives and trade unions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u21	I thank Mr Votav. Now I have a few factual points. Mr Laudát, Mr Beznoska, followed by Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long delaying, and I wouldn't consider it fair to jump forward. However, the budget is the most important law that is. We could have criticized the government's absence in the past, but what's happening here now is undignified. For the Prime Minister to sit here, there wasn't even a law maker here anymore... For God's sake, I consider that contempt for this House. I therefore put forward a procedural motion to suspend this item by the arrival of at least two thirds of the members of the government. Prime Minister, I don't know what's funny about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u23	This is a procedural proposal to be dealt with by voting. There's a check-out request. I hereby remove you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on Mr Laudát's proposal, which - Mr Commissioner, check me - proposes a suspension of the first reading of the state budget until at least two thirds of the members of the government are present. That's right. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 125; 111 Members and Members are registered, for 46, against 58. The motion was not accepted. Another point of fact is that of Adolf Beznoska. After that, President Stanjura, with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Just a brief response to the President of the Votava Budget Committee. I would like to stress that economic growth, and we are all looking forward to it and it is relatively robust, and also an estimate of 2,5 percent of growth for next year I think it is very sober. But there's no way that it's the credit of this government, and in the end, the Prime Minister of this government confirmed it in his words in the opening speech. So that's the first note. Second license plate. And I'll call it even - yes, you've stabilized the increase in mandatorial expenses. I understand that. It's okay from a short point of view. I'm sure you'll be thinking about reducing mandatorial expenses in the future. This year is absolutely record-breaking. I agree that they are stabilized, but, in turn, the last government contributed to the stabilization of the mandatorial expenditures, because the previous governments were taking legislative measures that led to the gradual stabilization of the mandatorial expenditures and their increase. And a third short note to support household consumption over a higher number of government officials. The 13 329 is a really dramaticly high number. As much as I understand the words of both the President and the Prime Minister that we will structurally agree with the increase in the number of cantors, the increase in the number of soldiers, the increase in the number of firefighters, or the police, I have no problem with that, but I ask if you are sure that we are doing a good personnel policy in all state offices, on all state organisations, and whether this extensive increase is really necessary. Because the implications of the budget, now I mean wages, are in the order of billions of crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u25	Thank you, Mr Beznosk. Mr Stanjura, after whom Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u26	Sometimes it happens to everyone that they talk to the microphone and convince themselves that they have not read the material to which they speak. This happened to President Votav a moment ago. I would really ask, through the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, my honourable colleague not to use such strong words as to manipulate graphs. If anyone, it's your partner on the right hand. The graphs are made of material called the Report on the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016. This report, these graphs were submitted by the Ministry of Finance. And I won't use the favorite word of the Minister of Finance to assess your performance for investment, but I'll assume you're wrong. So, page 27, Mr President of the Budget Committee through the Vice-President, government material. You said one thing was real, and then you didn't draw on the investment. If you'd read the material, you'd know. 2011 - budget, investment 104,9 billion. versus 77, reality 118.9. Where didn't we finish? 2012 - budget 96,9 billion. again against 77, reality 112.6. Where didn't we finish? 2013 - last hope of the President of the Committee on Budgets - budget 97, implementation 102,3 - next door again. So please don't tell us your fantasies. Don't blame me for manipulating graphs: "You have some graph there." It's a government graph, convicted you of ignorance or error, I believe not intentional, and I believe you'll apologize for those words, because that's not true. Page 27, notebook B to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u27	Thank you to President Stanjur for cultivating the debate and not using strong expressions. With another factual remark, Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, for an eternal debate on what is the credit or the blame of the relevant government. I think it's economically fair to say that when we were in recession, we could have looked at Germany. This is the economy with which we breathe, and every move, thanks to the fact that we are an export and industrial country, is symbolic in Germany as well in the Czech Republic within a few hours. When we fell to the recession last time, Germany was a little better off. So was it the fault of the previous government that we fell faster into the depths, the difference between the average of Germany and the Czech Republic? That's it! Because the government was doing a bad economic policy. Economically correct is to say that we are growing faster now than Germany, and thus the difference between German, or if you want the average European economy, i.e. growth, and the Czech Republic, which is growing faster, is, in my view, due to this government and its economic policy. So I think it's really worth it when we're running these arguments here from opposition or government benches, trying to be correct. So, in my view, what is the difference between average growth in the European Union, let's say mainly German growth, is certainly due to the current government and its economic policy, just as when we were falling in recession and falling faster than the German economy, so it was due, if you want, to the government then. I think that's an economically correct view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u29	I thank Mr Urban. His contribution, too, caused a shrink of factual remarks. First, Mr Fiedler, after him Mr Bendl, after him Mr Stanjura, and so on. Mr. Fiedler, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'll just briefly follow up on what my colleague Stanjura just said. I've also looked at the tables -- investments, we've been over this in the last draft state budget. It's page 27 of the bill proposal, notebook B, that's the table that's now being argued about. I also looked at the Ministry of Finance's website, when there was some commentary on reservations, criticisms. There it is literally written that the expected total investment this year will be 88 billion. CZK higher than the investments in 2013. So I'm assuming total investment again. So if I take this into account in this table, when the total investment in 2013 was 108 billion, then this year we should have 190 billion. And here, through Mr President to Mr Stanjur, the difference between what was in the draft budget and the fact that this year 2015 should therefore be several times greater than all the differences that Stanjura mentioned here. Why am I talking about this? If the government's material on page 27 indicates that total investments for this year are budgeted 75 billion, and according to what is written on the Ministry of Finance's website, they should be somewhere around 190 billion, which is a really drastic difference, if I am counting correctly, and I think so, so what are we supposed to believe in these figures, which numbers are valid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u31	I thank Mr Fiedler. With another point of fact, Mr Bendl, after which Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to see my honored colleague Milan Urban through Mr President, because he knows very well when he himself said that the Czech economy is breathing with German for a significant part, so at the moment when Germany was entering into the crisis, or the strong companies that are in the Czech Republic, their parent companies were solving their problems at the expense of their departures throughout Europe, thus also at the expense of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u33	I thank Mr Bendl. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura, Mr Plzák, followed by Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. So Mr Urban actually confirmed my words that they really believe it. There's nothing we can do about it. Your faith will heal you. Social Democrats believe that the government can significantly influence the economy upwards or downwards. But in that debate about the economic parameters, and I said that in the last term, let's not pick just one parameter, and that's GDP growth. It's certainly interesting, it's important, but it's not the only one and it's not the key. In that debate, those who are suitable for GDP forget, for example, during that period of recession and stagnation, what was the average unemployment in the European Union and what was in the Czech Republic. Ambitiously, of course, it is right to compare ourselves with the strongest European economy, Germany, nothing against it, we are to be ambitious, but if we introduce new economic categories such as 'if growth is higher than the average in the EU, the government does it well, and if GDP growth is lower than the average in the EU or Germany, the government does it wrong', why don't we say the same for the unemployed, for example? It is more crucial for our citizens than whether GDP is increasing by 0.1, 0.2, 0.3 percent, whether the unemployment rate is increasing or not. And what was this parameter, the average unemployment rate, in the European Union and unemployment rate in the Czech Republic in those crisis years? Or another parameter: what was the average interest rate paid by the European Union states for their sovereign bonds in those crisis years, and what are we? So let's not pick one number, GDP growth, and if we want to describe those years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, all right, today we can analyze those numbers, but we have to have all the numbers, not just one parameter. Thanks to our policy, we have had low interest rates, and so does this government, and that is a good thing. The less we pay for the old debts, the better for everyone, and thanks to this, we have kept very low unemployment within the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u35	Thank you to President Stanjur. With another point of fact, Mr Plzák, Mr Kalousek, followed by Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u36	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly heard an argument here that if things are going well, it should be saved. I'm sure you know the numbers well, so I didn't know them, so I took a look at what it was like with the economic growth and the investigation in recent years. You will admit that between 2006 and 2008, we were doing well, that our economy seemed to prosper, but also the percentage growth per GDP was 7 percent in 2006. And what an axe there was - 97 billion, nothing was spared! In 2007 - 5.7 growth, ax 66 billion etc. And in that crisis, it was 192 billion, 156 billion, 142 billion. And there was one other argument - if that billion, ten years ago, wasn't different than that billion today, because there was certainly more to be bought for that billion than today, that is, we're still comparing economically imperceptible data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u37	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Now, with a point of fact, President Kalousek, Mr Laudát after him, Mr Urban after him. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u38	Thank you. On the contrary, I would like to stand up for my colleague Urban. I beg you all to take a look at Germany according to his appeal. Indeed, at a time of crisis, in those years 2008, 2009, Germany has committed some incredible fiscal impulses, even those on which we have earned, for example, the crazy scrap heap that Mr Urban wanted to introduce in our country, for God's sake, it has failed. And at a time of growth, like now and last year, Germany insists very hard on balanced budgets. Even now that the European Union's most threatened state of immigration is actually carrying huge costs, while here at 85 - in the words of eighty-five - asylum applications, Minister Babiš accepts 13 and a half thousand new employees, Wolfgang Scheuble says absolutely hard "no, even though we have this problem, we have to deal with it ourselves, it would be unfair to pass it on to future generations" and insists on a balanced budget for next year. Please, Mr Urban, along with you, I want to look at Germany's fiscal policy, and I would very much like your government to do the same. But she's taking an example from Croatia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u39	I thank Mr Kalousek. With another point of fact, Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Urban, followed by Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u40	Thank you. Two things. First. I would ask the Prime Minister to do something, at least after the afternoon break, with the presence of ministers. It really seems undignified to me. Then we can't be surprised... I would like to hear the debate here, Mr Ťok, who continues his predecessor's miserable practice in terms of the state of the resort, and others and others. So I'm not gonna make any more procedural suggestions, like there might be at least half of you, a third of you, and all that, but please, after lunch, let some people come here. If it's okay with the members of the ANO Club and social democracy, then I'm upset. And the other thing. I am very glad that my colleague Urban here has admitted that what is happening in neighbouring Germany is having a fundamental impact on us. Because they've been telling and letting go of the world for seven years, it can be traced in thousands, in thousands, and I'm not overreacting, as they would in the world crisis ensure economic growth and that actually, that there's an economic downturn here, they're going to ensure it. Now they are unable to secure a balanced budget, or at least a dignified budget, even at a time of growth, which may not be repeated even next year. The correlation between the Czech Republic and Germany - I'll do the analysis because we're still talking about feelings. But there's quite one thing that's changed. The previous government, or the previous one, despite the major downturns, has given rise to innovation, to the promotion of education in technical sciences, you are now breaking the trajectory on exactly the opposite path with this budget. And these are the exact companies that give the added value, and you're saying today that you're just making sure that you are, and that the government has suppressed it. No way. Now you're losing your breath for some reason compared to Slovakia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u41	Thank you, Mr Laudát. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, this is not about what I believe or don't believe and how I feel, it is simply a reality that our economy is because it is an export economy, that industry accounts for more than 31 percent of HPD, so our economy is linked to the German, industrial one. We know that. It's not a question of whether I believe it or whether it's a feeling. Of course, it is linked to the European Union and, of course, it is a good thing that we are trying to diversify those directions, to trade not only with the European Union, but to extend it to other continents, in that sense BRICS, but I do not want to talk about it. That's obvious, and it makes no sense to argue about it. The fact is, there are differences. Sometimes we fall to the bottom faster than Germany, sometimes we grow faster than Germany. And I'm saying here that it's always the blame or the government's fault, the difference. And this government, we can talk about details, but she did one thing, and you can't deny it. It has created a positive economic atmosphere for investment here. Thus, households are not afraid to spend, they are not afraid to invest companies, and thanks to this atmosphere, of course, we can grow faster - not only because of this, but also because of this atmosphere, we can grow faster than Germany. I mean, it's not about feelings. And if the government doesn't have any meaning at all, as you say, it doesn't have to be. Then why do we have the government here, what do we have the Minister of Industry and Trade for, why do we have the finance ministers that you have nominated for in recent periods with great joy and determination? So these people wouldn't have to be here. Then it would somehow run through some kind of traffic, like a mirror of the European Union, and there wouldn't have to be any government here. You'll admit that it's not true either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u43	I thank Mr Urban. Mr Votava, President Kalousek, followed by Mr Laudát, Mr Pilný, followed by Mr Pilný. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm just going to my colleague Stanjur's - now he's leaving. [[Messenger. Stanjura stays in the hall.]] Yes. Mr President, on the one hand, I do not know why I should apologize. I'm not going to apologize, I don't think it's necessary. I was just saying that you're always gonna take what's right for you to make that argument out of the total amount of investment. You're only going to rip out what's being budgeted in the state budget, and you're comparing that to the total expenditure of another one for your era. That's all I said. I also said that in 2013, 17 billion were not reached. investment given that it was not ready. It is a transport infrastructure. I draw from the Ministry of Finance's numbers correctly. I didn't count it. But the Ministry of Finance's numbers say that 17 billion were not spent. Crowns. And if I remember correctly, when we were in opposition, we criticized this very much that you were planning something and, of course, the result is different that you can't exhaust your investment because it's just not ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u45	I thank Mr Votav. With another point of fact, President Miroslav Kalousek, followed by Mr Laudát, Mr Pilný, followed by Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. Through the President, give bůh, Mr Urban, that you may be right, that the positive atmosphere may endure here. You're convinced that this government is creating it, that government is going to last too, if bůh don't let anything happen next year, which can happen in Europe at any time, I'm going to ask you what your government is doing, but I don't want it. I wish your argument was hypocritical and untrue to keep it that way. But I applied for a factual remark for another reason. Prime Minister, I'm not happy with what I'm about to say, but I'm a really old budget bard. For more than 20 years, I have been working on public budgets and the state budget of the Czech Republic. I worked with Hejduk, Havel, with Janota, probably just one of those names you remember, and for Klaus and for Zeman's good memory, when the state budget was discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, these ministers here were so balanced in a lot! All of you! I cannot imagine that Václav Klaus or Miloš Zeman would allow them not to sit here when the government asks the Chamber of Deputies for a trillion crowns. Now, on behalf of the MP's club, I'm asking for a 10-minute recess for a meeting of the MP's club. I'm neither Klaus nor Zeman, and I don't insist that everyone be here, but if there aren't even half of them, we'll continue after 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u47	I thank Mr Kalousek. I'm registering his procedural proposal and interrupting the House meeting by 12.02. for a break at the TOP 09 meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u48	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good noon. We'll continue after the break at the TOP 09 meeting. I have three factual points here... Procedural... [[After taking over the proceedings, the meeting shall study the Members' applications for the debate.]] Mr. Laudát has given you priority, a colleague of Stanjura, who is not here, so he is failing his application, and Mr. Pilný is here. So, Mr. Pilný, with a point of fact. I ask the House for peace! Mr. Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the Economic Committee, I would like to rid you of one myth. The performance of the Czech economy depends on the people they create, that is to say, on people such as self-employed persons, small and medium-sized enterprises and large industrial enterprises. In my opinion, the basic strategy of the government should be to stay out of the way. When we look at the fact that the Czech economy in the past government has fallen below the EU's average, and in the current government, it is highly above the performance of the neighbouring countries' economies, you will make your own judgment that the government is hindering more and less. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u50	I thank Mr Pilný. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u51	Thank you. Prime Minister, I am very sorry through the President, but once again. This is a government bill on the state budget. That's not a law like any other. This is an executive standard in character, where legislation intensifies into executives. That is why the Government's bill on the state budget is only approved by the Chamber of Deputies, because the government only answers to the Chamber of Deputies, not to Parliament as a whole. You here now want more than 1 trillion crowns from all people in the Czech Republic. One trillion crowns is quite a lot of money for the government, which wants people in the Czech Republic who are represented here, to be represented by at least their majority. Once again, Klaus or Zeman, when a minister was not in the House, when a government bill on the state budget was being discussed, she only apologized for a severe illness. [[Very strongly:]] I understand that times change, most of them are enough for me. Ten minutes ago, I asked for eight, now I want nine! If most of the Chamber of Deputies can be here, then most of the government must be here! And if most of the government isn't here, she's not entitled to more than 1 trillion crowns, because she probably doesn't care if she doesn't sit here. That's your problem, Prime Minister! So I'll give you a chance. There's an election at 12.45. I'm asking for a break from the MP's club by 12.45 pm, then there will be an election, then there could be a lunch break, and by then perhaps nine ministers could sit here. You despise the Chamber of Deputies and I object to this behaviour!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u52	Even before I could announce a break for the TOP 09 meeting, the Prime Minister asked for the floor with a factual remark. [[A voice from the diaper.]] I've got you marked, sir...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u53	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I have already acted on the State Budget Act here in the Chamber of Deputies. I got off after the Minister of Finance introduced the bill. The Minister of Finance is a minister who submits for the government such a bill in the Chamber of Deputies. I consider it important that the Prime Minister be present when discussing the State Budget Act. That is why I have also come and take part in the debate that is being held here. However, I do not consider it necessary for all members of the government, including those who do not have a parliamentary mandate, to participate directly in the decision on the State budget law. I do not want to take the right of the opposition to raise any demands here towards the government. I have, of course, sent over all the members of the government who are in the building and who are present and able to participate in the budget discussion right here in the hall. I asked them to come to the hall and watch the debate that is here. However, I assume that the members of the government have their own agenda, many of which are duly excused at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I think that there are those members of the government who are primarily responsible for the state budget, that is, above all, the Minister of Finance, and that is, above all, the Prime Minister. Then it is also important for a government majority to be present, that is to say, Members of all three coalition clubs. I assume that the government majority here is in the hall and that the government majority is able to ensure that the draft state budget bill moves forward to second reading. This obliges us to the citizens. We have properly submitted a draft law on the state budget, precisely within the time limit laid down by the law. We are defending the bill here, defending it to the very final, final phase of the budget discussion. We are ready to vote for the budget. We don't hunt defectors here at the last minute. The government coalition has enough votes to guarantee timely budget approval. The country is not in danger of a budget make-up. And I agree with you that the members of the government might be more interested in budget discussions, but I do not think that the fact that the whole government is not present here is reason to interrupt budget discussions. [[The President is trying to enter into a debate]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u54	Prime Minister, don't make me break the Rules of Procedure, because my colleague Kalousek suggested a recess for a club meeting, and it is announced without further notice. But I've registered two applications for actual notes. I have given the floor to the Prime Minister, so I must give the floor to the President of the ODS. Then I'll call a break. Prime Minister, this isn't about whether or not we're going to vote for a break, but the point is that the club has properly asked for a recess to attend a club meeting to protest the government's behavior. So I'm gonna have to do it. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u55	First of all, the Prime Minister's words. He's got seven here, members of the government. Nobody wanted the whole government, so you can't argue: I don't think it's necessary for the whole government to be here. Nobody said anything like that. The request was made: the vast majority. If I wanted to reconstruct, I would suggest that we interrupt the state budget hearing in the presence of Minister Pelikán, who meditates in India. But I'm not gonna design it, I'm not gonna build it. Perhaps some coalition Members would like that too. But the fact that you've been here alone with the Treasury Secretary so far shows that your ministers really don't care about the budget. We've also had most of it comfortable since 2010, we've always approved the budget, never had the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister sitting here alone. You're here, it's okay, you got off, otherwise no one's defended the budget except the finance minister they have to, and the Prime Minister. It's a good customary right to defend him. The others didn't get out. They're not defending it. But I volunteered for President Votava's speech, which was wrong again, unfortunately. He said these are the finance minister's numbers. I don't know what he was drawing from. So I found the final account of the 2013 SFDI on the House's website. Not 17 billion. not pumped, but 8.5. And in 2014, that was your government, wasn't it? How much do you think, Mr President - that is a rhetorical question - how much do you think it was? 15.9 billion. So, Prime Minister of the Budget Committee, you said: you have not reached 17 billion. in 2013 and we do it better. We've done eight billion. Don't finish, we're not proud of it, you almost 16. And I'll bet you - I won't bet you, that's a rhetorical question again - this year it'll be more than the 15. We'll see. And the numbers, the numbers, you said I was manipulating the graph. [[unintelligible]] It's a government chart, the Treasury. I was just quoting him, and I criticized you for not reading him and not knowing him. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u56	Well, thank you. Now, since the application for a factual comment from my colleague Laudát wasn't until after the request for a meeting of the TOP 09 Club, I will announce... I'm gonna read the apologies first to get this done, and we're gonna take a break until 12.45. Mrs Šlechtová, Mr Pavel Havíř, apologizes to Mrs Nina Nováková, apologises to Mrs Miroslava Němcová and Mr Stanislav Berkovec from 11.15 to 14.30. Those are my apologies, and I'm declaring a break until 12.45.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. I'm seeing some of my colleagues here from TOP 09, so maybe the club meeting break is over. We will continue the debate on the state budget, or we will not, because the words will be taken by the President of the Election Commission, whom I have reduced by five minutes his chance to implement all kinds of elections. So the chairman of the electoral commission, Mr. Coloratrick. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-002-001.u58	Thank you. I wish you a good afternoon and I am of the opinion that the President of the Election Commission does not mind the shortening, because you know that our commission is always efficient and efficient, we are trying to guide you through the elections as quickly and most economically as possible from the point of view of time. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you three election points now without any unnecessary talk around. The first one, number 179, we propose to take a public vote here at the plenary, and I believe we can handle it.
