ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u1	193. Report on extremism in the Czech Republic in 2014, Evaluation Concept of Combating extremism for 2014 and Concept of Combating extremism for 2015 /German Press 528/ This report will also be presented by the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the material Report on extremism in the Czech Republic in 2014, Evaluation of the Concept of Combating extremism for 2014 and the Concept of Combating extremism for 2015. The report on extremism on the territory of the Czech Republic in 2014 describes last year's important events and trends. Important information is that the 2013 series of anti-Romani marches did not repeat. The public stopped hearing the populist arguments of extreme politicians, perhaps. other activists. The measures of state administration and self-government have had a positive impact in order to increase security in these socially excluded localities. In 2014, Islamophobic entities became more prominent, direct actions were registered from the anarchist scene, i.e. arson attacks, i.e. Therefore, we were primarily worried about the growth of so-called growth in these years. anti-refuge rhetoric as well as some activities of left-wing extremists. As I said before, it was mainly arson attacks. In 2014, there were five proven arson attacks, and in 2015, there were 8 so far. The first part contains information on the number and nature of events, structure and numbers of supporters. On the right extreme scene, these are mainly the Workers' Party of Social Justice, Workers' Youth, or the newly formed bloc of former neo-Nazis. From the point of view of left-wing extremists, knowledge about the scene of anarchist and Marxist-Leninian is available. In 2014, 201 crimes with extremist subtext were detected by the Police of the Czech Republic in this area, representing 0.07% of total crime. The year-on-year comparison resulted in a decrease in the observed extreme acts by 10. The last passage reflects important foreign events and trends that have had an impact on the domestic scene. The document itself contains an evaluation of the implementation of the Concept of Combating extremism for 2014. The focus of the activity centre was on managing extremist meetings and preventing them. This was for example the case. on matters such as police training of education, the use of anti-conflict teams or legal measures such as: an amendment to the right of assembly. A number of measures need to be continued. There have been new challenges. The new Concept of Combating extremism for 2015 thus assigns additional tasks to the central authorities of the state administration. From our point of view, it will continue to be important, firstly, to prevent the expression of extremism, to eliminate social tensions, particularly in socially excluded localities, to help and protect victims of extreme crime. For the next, hold the extreme scene in the borders, where they will not threaten the democratic order of the country. Consequently prosecute any violation of the legality of extremists. Next, develop tools and measures to eliminate individual excesses by extremists, e.g. - and this is an area where it really needs to be paid more attention - the question called. lone wolves. And also focus on the new platforms on the extreme stage, because of course the world is developing and with that the extremist scene is developing, which now communicates on a wide-ranging basis on a pan-European basis, or rather. global level. The concept of fighting extremism for 2015 has no impact on the state budget and other public budgets. The material was taken into account on 2 September 2015, by the Committee on Security of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Security Committee resolution was delivered as House Press 528/1. I now ask that Mr Martin Lank take the floor of the Committee's rapporteur and inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Security Committee discussed this report at its 19th meeting on 2 September 2015 and adopted Resolution No. 84, which I'd like you to meet now. The Committee on Security of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the opening words of the First Deputy Minister of Interior Jiří Nováček, after the report by the Committee's rapporteur Martin Lank and after a general and detailed debate, first takes note of the report on extremism in the Czech Republic in 2014, Evaluation of the fulfilment of the concept of combating extremism for 2014 and the Concept of Combating extremism for 2015. Secondly, he instructs the President of the Security Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thirdly, it requires the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I have done with this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate and registering an application in it so far - Mr Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister if he could answer her here. Because when I look at the definition of extremism, extremism is the term used to refer to acts, ideologies or groups outside the main, i.e. the medium current of the company. When I look at the admission of illegal immigrants by this government to the Czech Republic - and I will just remind you that in July you agreed out of quotas, completely voluntarily, the quotas were not yet, 1,500 illegal immigrants to the Czech Republic and subsequently nod without resistance to EU quotas, and according to surveys here over 90 percent of Czech citizens do not want any illegal immigrants... So, according to the definition of extremism - and I know that this report is being submitted for 2014 - it should appear as extremist in the report for 2015 or as extreme acts of your government or of the European Union. [[11.50 hours]] I would ask you, Minister, whether you could define on the microphone what is the opinional mainstream of society, when 90 per cent of people according to many and many surveys, or 80, 85, 95 per cent, do not want illegal immigrants to the Czech Republic. So what, according to the government, is the definition of the central current of society? I beg your answer, if by chance the government, that's Question No. 1, and secondly, if the European Union does not deviate from this central stream of society. If so, this government is therefore extreme and acts extremely and therefore the European Union is acting extremely. I ask you to answer that question. If you have any other definition than definitions that are everywhere for publication and are publicly traceable everywhere. I merely add that I consider this government's actions to be extreme and the European Union's actions to be extreme, because it is completely against the will of most citizens of the Czech Republic. From my point of view, it's completely out of the mainstream and medium current, which is why I'm asking you about the definition of this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u7	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone, in which case, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your response to Mr Okamur. Extremist movements are, of course, movements which, for the most part, also violate the laws of the Czech Republic. What is extremism and crossing the edge of the law defines the legal order of the Czech Republic. It's not a crime to have someone else's opinion. As for your comments, I always try to set them straight. In the first phase, the Czech Republic tried to prevent permanent compulsory quotas being set here. We are still defending ourselves against this, and we will still be defending ourselves. Admission of 1,500 people - it is 1,100 people who are to come in to process the procedure and eventually obtain asylum, and 400 people who are to be relocated. I would just ask that we tell the truth as part of the political debate. 1,100 people are to be reallocated to the Czech Republic to complete their asylum procedure here. If they obtain asylum, it is still not clear how they are to be maintained in the territory of which Member State. For these very reasons, and precisely because we think that quotas without setting clear rules, without setting the same asylum system, or the same asylum conditions in the Member States of the European Union, where I personally do not think that we can go to social support numbers like Germany and other countries, because those people are not sustainable in the territory of the European countries, and all the time we say that the quota system cannot work. Of the 1,500 people you are talking about, my colleague, through Mr President, there are 400 people who are to be relocated from camps outside the European Union to the Czech Republic. And here, of course, we have declared that we are ready to take into account groups such as sick children, or we are prepared to deal with this in cooperation with charity, with churches, so that Syrian Christians can be brought to the Czech Republic. So out of the 1,500 people we adopted, it was at the beginning of the debate in Europe, when the Czech Republic tried to leave this measure and postpone the debate and cancel the debate on the so-called mandatory quotas that the debate is still unfortunately continuing. The fact that most people today think that there is no need to accept, I completely understand. I understand, but we're in a situation today. Our neighbouring countries have adopted a migration policy that affects us, and we must face it. Of the 7,000 illegal migrants captured this year in the Czech Republic, we currently have less than 500 of them in the territory. We have effectively returned all other and most of them within the framework of the Readmises to the surrounding states. We returned part of it in Dublin, especially to Italy. The rest of these people are no longer in our residential facilities. This means that the Czech Republic is very successful in both return policy and detection format. And, of course, I hear criticisms about what our children look like. Even there, the condition improves significantly. Of course, today's situation, with less than 500 clients there, has improved dramatically thanks to a lower number of people. When there were 1,500 people in the crisis scenario, and today there are 500 people, we opened another facility, so the quality of accommodation and services for people is just better. Extreme for me means primarily what violates the laws in force in the Czech Republic. Mr President, it is certainly not extreme that you think the opinion that is in the minority. That's certainly not extreme. Extremist is the one who breaks the law who tries to enforce his will with a violent character, who violates the rules, ethics and, above all, the legal order of the Czech Republic. I hope I was clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u9	Thank you, Minister. Now with priority rights, Mr Lank, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u10	I do not want to abuse my position as rapporteur, I did not want to take advantage of the right of priority, I came forward properly only with my brief comment on the report, because there were a few things that interested me. One of them was that in 2014, police recorded a significant increase in anti-Semitic subtext crimes, 45, which may not seem much, but it is an increase of 200 percent. I was just intrigued. Only two crimes were motivated by hatred against Muslims, which also impressed me. One of my reservations to discuss this report within the committee, I found it strange that while the Islamophobic scene is contained in the report and obviously monitored very closely, the supporters of radical Islam are virtually lacking in the report, although the fact that there are no such ones in the Republic is extremely unlikely. I have raised this question to the present Deputy Minister of the Interior, and I have been assured that the supporters of radical Islam are included in the report on terrorism, which is in a way also interesting and telling something. I'll be very curious about the report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u11	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister for his reply. Let me quote Article 2 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic: "The people are the source of all state power. It shall be carried out by means of legislative, executive and judicial authorities." I ask if, Minister, as a government representative, you feel that your government is carrying out its mandate in accordance with what the people wish for in order to take illegal immigrants into the Czech Republic. It is clear that most citizens of the Czech Republic are opposed to receiving illegal immigrants. If only you'd fought, if you'd at least resisted by all means possible. But just nod and act against the will of the citizens of the Czech Republic in such a serious and irreversible matter is a problem. Then allow me to respond to what you said. After all, you, too, confirmed last week what I've been saying for about two years that if we adopt legally, and you've already done it, you've agreed to do it, and you're going to do it, even if one illegal immigrant, so as step two, the second wave, the so-called legal wave, is already coming up on the basis of the family merger law. That's why I've been saying zero tolerance for illegal immigration from the start. Stop tolerating violations of the laws of the Czech Republic, because illegal crossing the state border of the Czech Republic is a criminal offence in the Czech Republic. This government has long tolerated crimes in the Czech Republic. These people are to be returned immediately and are not to be tolerated here at all, and certainly not to legalize their stay here. I say again, a second wave based on the law on family merging means that if we accept even one illegal immigrant and you legalize his stay, which I say again that you decide to do and do it, then he invites his family members and others here, and then it grows in a geometrical line. They, of course, when we look at statistics even in Western Europe, the demographic curve, their average birth rate, these people who are professed to be Islam, is multiplied by ours. [[12.00 hours]] This means that we are heading towards extreme negotiations here, and that is why I am talking about this, that essentially the government's actions are not only currently acting extremely from my point of view, because it is acting against the will of the majority of the population, but basically there are irreversible steps that will be directed towards other extremist tendencies and the great social tensions in society, because simply the culture of Islam, as we know, is not compatible with democracy and freedom. There are great problems with this everywhere, and there is no such thing as, for example, the only advanced Western democracy where Islamists have been acceptablely integrated into a majority society. There is no such example in Western Europe in developed countries. That means I'm pointing it out, which is why I'm talking about it on the occasion of this report on extremism, because it even has two positions, as I said. It is the current act of government, which is extreme and against the will of the vast majority of the population, and subsequently the consequences of this act, which will only strengthen extremism in our territory, because, of course, people will want to defend themselves, and vice versa, this act against the will of the citizens of the Czech Republic strengthens the behaviour of extremist groups in the Czech Republic, and then more citizens of the Czech Republic will have to face such negotiations, because there will be problems, and you are moving them here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u13	Thank you. The Minister is claiming his word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, where other than in the attic The Chamber of Deputies to fight myths? We live in mediaocracy, we live in media shortcuts, where the world looks a little different when you're on something and you act and you spend a few hours there, and then you read the headlines and you find that you've been somewhere else. I think, Mr Okamura, through Mr President, that the Czech Republic is one of the major countries which are fighting against the system of mandatory quotas. But we decided to join the European Union years ago, and European Union law is superior to us. We simply entered the system of the European Union, which helps us, helps us economically, and if you look only at the situation when the passage of the Czech-German border from the German side has been restricted in the short term, it has meant significant financial implications for, for example, transporters. Then there's a legitimate debate about whether to step out of the Union, if it's to strengthen our borders, but then we have to tell the public what it's going to mean, what impact it's going to have, that it won't go unanswered. That those partners like the Němec and others would close the borders. Then the question is, what will the public want? I think it will be legitimate for you to address these views to the public in the framework of election campaigns, and if one day the view prevails in this country that the political groups that want to leave the European Union have the upper hand, then we can try to get out of the European Union. However, I do not think that it will be without the impact on the financial stability and prosperity of the Czech Republic. I just don't think he can sign on it. That's my personal impression. Concerning migration. We are in favour of Europe's unambiguously, unambiguously defending its rights, protecting its borders, tackling the strengthening of military operations, and clearly declaring to the public and to the world that we are helping the needy, but those who are not supposed to be here, i.e. economic migrants, that they have no chance of getting here except through the embassy in their own country. Let them come, make a request, and the European countries, or the European institutions, will assess whether they will accept or accept this person in Europe. However, this is not a question of refugees. I think it's a legitimate debate which countries are safe. I think there's a legitimate debate as long as migrants go through three or four safe countries, if they're still refugees. These are all the topics that we raise in Europe in those hourly debates. We are very dynamic, we may be outside the mainstream of Europe, but we think that by our debate we are gradually opening our eyes to countries that previously thought the migration crisis would pass. She won't pass. We are very well aware that this is a problem for years and for years. And God forbid climate migration gets any higher. And until then, we have to be ready. Because the migration wave that's here today can happen again, it can be higher and we need to be ready. This means, we say clearly mandatory standing quotas without protecting our own borders, without sending out a signal to the whole world that everyone is welcome, except those who need it, of course, so without these measures, Europe does not have a chance to deal with this migration crisis and even those who come forward, and they simply come. If you look at the population increase, and that's the difference, unfortunately, between Evropan and, for example, Egypťan, over the last 20 years, their population increase by 45 percent, then, of course, these are the areas of the world where these people live worse than they do in Europe, and they may have ambition for economic reasons to move. And there we must send a clear signal that the journey is through the embassy of European countries, a request to move, and Europe decides whether or not to move. That's the debate we're having. That's the debate we're trying to have in Europe. Don't be mad at me, but the criticism of the Czech Government that we are Pharisees, that perhaps we want to jump on everything in Europe, that is not true. These debates are very complicated, very excited, and I've been to many of them, so I really know what I'm talking about. But, after all, we are part of the European Union, and by adopting the European funds as well as the European money - the new roads and the new benefits that the European money has paid us - we have committed ourselves to implementing European law. That's what we do. That doesn't mean we'll keep quiet. But that doesn't mean we nod at everything. This does not mean, however, that we will not promote our Czech national interests. And believe it or not, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u15	Thank you, too. With a factual point, Mr Okamura is signed in, followed by a proper application by Mr Černoch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u16	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer, but you've more or less confirmed what I've been saying all along. By January this year, your government claimed that there was no immigration wave, I was attacked by various media, I was ridiculed, you made me a xenophobic and populist, when I pointed out for two years that this immigration wave of illegal migration was imminent and that we should have had it last year - I remember when we were discussing this report here a year ago, but there I was talking about something else, so I called for a legislative solution and preparation. You've overslept and you haven't prepared at all. On the contrary, the people who pointed it out, you downplayed them, and you mocked them. That's the problem. It is also a fact that you started doing something now and late, and the result is ruthless when it comes to negotiations in the European Union. I certainly disagree with what you said you were trying to defend yourself against this immigration wave. Then explain to me why most government MEPs in the European Parliament voted in favour of quotas for illegal immigrants to the European Union this April, including ČSSD MEPs. The subsequent action came from this vote, when the quotas were adopted. This means that in April, most of the MEPs of this government coalition and some others, such as the TOP 09, voted in favour of quotas. Then you found out that the public is against, there was a Czech proverb "where the wind, where the cloak" and when you saw that it became popular, then suddenly Prime Minister Sobotka turned around and tells us that he doesn't really want any immigrants, and behind our backs, of course, you accept them and always at the expense of the social security of our Czech citizens, our seniors, our handicapped citizens and the support of families with children. That's right!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u17	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to learn what happened in January 2015, February 2015, March 2015, April 2015, May 2015 maybe we will learn what happened in June and July. But this item is called the Report on extremism in the Czech Republic in 2014. So I would like to call on all of you not to run off the subject and deal with this point, and not what is happening this year, will happen next year and will happen in ten years. Please, let's stick to the subject! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u19	Thank you, good noon, ladies and gentlemen, for keeping the time to Jakubčík's colleague. Now with priority rights, Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u20	I thank my colleague Jakubčík for your help. So I'm just going to answer the words that fell from the Minister here, because I think the Minister has reacted in some way in that reaction, and I think the reaction to that is correct. We said a few months ago that it was necessary to protect the borders of the Czech Republic, and Hungary, which was rejected, so if the situation did not stand as it stood, and the currents, if you looked at the map, would go through the Czech Republic, because the people, even if they went to Germany, would go through the Czech Republic. Therefore, what Hungary did, which was rejected, was the only right choice to make, and the photos we saw from Hungary could have been from us. Those were the words we wanted. We've been proposing border control months ago. Next. Yes, the government stood up, and of course it's commendable against mandatory quotas, but unfortunately that step two was no longer there, and that, at the time we were overvoted, we should have stood up and sued this decision at the European Court of Justice. I have asked the Prime Minister several times both here in the House and on the committee. He never once answered me the reason why the Czech Republic is overruled as a sovereign state, although according to the report of the Ministry of the Interior, according to your analytical report, the chance to win this lawsuit would be relatively large. And I think that this will also follow in the months that Jakubčík spoke of in the event of further mandatory and long-term mechanisms being discussed, because when the Prime Minister left for the European Commission, he said it would not be discussed there, and of course it was discussed there without deciding, but this was the case. It'll be here for the future. Under the asylum law illegal crossing the state border, there is an act for which an immigrant should not receive asylum in the Czech Republic, because everyone has and must obey the laws. It's what we want, and it has to be followed by the people who come. And to discuss whether they're running away from the war or whether they're coming for other reasons, that's another matter. If I'm running from the war, I'll stay in a state that will provide me with safety where no shooting will take place. I will not try at all costs to get and collect from a catalogue of countries that will give me the biggest social benefits. That's just the way it is. And if these people cross an illegal state border, that is why they do not receive asylum in the Czech Republic. That's what we're saying, that's what we blame the government for doing in this way. When Dawn presents this proposal, it is voted against. That's why we're asking why. At a time when people trying to fight this because a state that doesn't have its limits is not a state, a state that doesn't fight for the security of its citizens, it is not a state, so it is wrong to label people who are trying to label it extremists. Of course, there are people who take advantage of it, but in general, it's not right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u21	I thank my colleague Černoch. Now two factual points. First Mrs Helena Válková, then Mr Soukup. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u22	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I was given the opportunity to look at Bělá-Jez, thanks to a vacancy in the Committee on Petitions, and it was very informative. Our government, in that kind of sense of the word, is floating between Skylla and Charibda, because they're shelling it from both left and right, and in part our public will think it's justified. So first from the right, if you will. Personally, I do not think that the legislation in force in the Czech Republic is not respected. And now from the left, if I think of non-state non-profit organizations like the League of Human Rights under that imaginary left, they're being followed too much. An example - a pregnant woman behind literally a wire-like prison, which I know very well when I ask her when she's going to give birth, says: I hope in the middle of November. Please, we are waiting for the expulsion, and we would very much like to bring our child into the world with my husband in Germany, where I have half my relatives. Here too, we applied the applicable legislation because they did not have valid entry, visa in the Czech Republic, into letters. I don't think anyone can be blamed for anything, I don't know if it was humanitarianly okay and in accordance with Art. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to: 3 The Convention on the Rights of the Child. On the other hand, I would like to know, by your means, Mr Vice-President, Mr Okamura, how would you imagine the concrete consequences of even more consistent compliance with the legislation in force, concrete measures -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u23	Madame, you have made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u24	Yes. I'm sorry, and I'm done. I think the government sometimes follows the existing legislation far too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u25	Now a colleague of Mr Soukup, then also with a factual remark, Minister Chovanec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I must stand up for the government. I think that the government is very well behaved in this case of the current immigration situation. I personally thanked the Home Secretary. On the other hand, I have to pause a little bit over the fact that in that report it's basically called Islamophobia, and not other phobias. I would like to quote to you what people have said about Islam that we absolutely cannot blame for being xenophobic. For example, Mahátma Gándhí said of Islam: Religion, which could not make any compromises, has always stood by others and is Islam. Although I believe that violence does not take a dominant place in the Qur'an, 13 centuries of imperialist expansion and Muslims as a whole have created warriors, that is why Muslims are offensive. Winston Churchill: There is no more powerful reactionary force in the world than mohamedanism. And now another statement from a German writer, traveler and explorer, one of the most respected scholars of Islam: Civilization and the rule of law is impossible to create in the nations governed by the provisions of the Qur'an. The devastating influence of Islam on the human mind, fanaticism, the hubris with which Islam is considered the only true faith, however, exclude any improvement in this condition. I think that it would be worth considering at least radical Islam and its supporters in this report also in some way to mark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u27	I thank Mr Soukup. Now with a point of fact, the Minister of the Interior, then Tomio Okamura and then Mr Jakubčík. Please. [[Min. The inmate wishes to speak with priority rights.]] Minister, I understand, but if you want priority rights, we need to agree that you're going to have factual remarks drawn. [[Yes.]] Okay. Please. In that case, Mr Tomio Okamura, then Mr Jakubčík, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u28	I would have responded here to the former Minister of Válková through you, and what should be done in the context of legal law. You've got to be kidding me! You are the government, you have all the legislative initiative in your hands, you are two years with the government, and I understand that when you led the Ministry of Justice and another minister of the ANO movement leads it, that you have not been able to submit a government bill on usury in two years' time, you have not been able to submit a government bill on executors, so that your legislative initiative is very weak and basically there are only parliamentary proposals on these issues, because you are not able to submit the government with your apparatus. So I understand that as an opposition politician, you're asking me what to do as a government under legal law. I'd be happy to advise you, but it would be good to step down from government first and give room to opposition politicians to show a little bit of how to do it, and then I'll give you some practical advice. I've got these laws written down, they've been here, you've rejected them, and I'd be happy to cooperate. But specifically on our proposal. We as the only movement and party in the Chamber of Deputies, our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy SPD, are promoting zero tolerance for illegal immigration into the Czech Republic. We have instructions: zero tolerance. We want equal rights and obligations for all people in the Czech Republic in the sense that the laws of the Czech Republic are respected. You tolerate illegal acts and, on the contrary, you have allocated several billion crowns to support illegal acts and illegal immigrants at the expense of social security for Czech citizens. We can't agree with that. And I repeat again, I find it quite grim that the former Minister of Justice and the High Representative of this government are asking me what to do under the current laws. I've been pointing this out for two years, and I have to say, that's probably a question from Kocourkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Igor Jakubčík also made a point of fact. Then Mr Černoch's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u30	Thank you for the floor. Two things. First of all, I propose zero tolerance, zero tolerance, zero tolerance to the SPD and SPD officials who are violating the Rules of Procedure and are talking about something other than what is to be done. That's thing number one. Thing number two, the quota thing. Personally, I think quotas are nonsense. An action against quotas is nonsense. The action shall not have suspensory effect. The fact that the Slovak Republic has brought an action for a quota is purely a national matter for the Slovak Republic. They're about to have an election. Somehow they have to stand up to the voters. The compulsory introduction of quotas is the same in countries that enforce it. Angela Merkelová's popularity is declining in Germany. Of course. What do we do? We want to show up with the voters, transfer our duty to other states. Otherwise, I apologize for also speaking outside the subject, but I think that the things that have been said here have to be addressed in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u31	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Marek Černoch's point of order is now in effect. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u32	Thank you. I would just very much like to turn against the lie that Mr Okamura here has made through you. The only party or movement that promotes zero tolerance here - it's not true. I think that the Dawn - the national coalition is also promoting zero tolerance for illegal immigrants, illegal border crossings. That's one thing. The second thing is that if you fight so much and fight so vehemently, why didn't you support the negotiation of the law on churches that prevent the spread of radical Islam? As your colleague Soukup said, yes, this is not about what religion is, this is about how religion is enforced, how it is interpreted and whether it respects or does not respect other religions, other customs, other traditions. If a political weapon and a stick are created from religion, then it should also be included outside terrorism in extremism and radical Islam, because some parts of this religion, if interpreted radically, are suppressed by human rights, suppress women's rights, suppress things that I think people, if called people, could never do in their lives. What needs to be seen today within the Islamic State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights, Mr. Home Secretary. Mr. Secretary, you've come. You can speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u34	Mr President, honourable Members, I would very much like to debate what he wants to debate here, and that is what Mr Jakubčík is saying by your means, but it is necessary to simply respond to the information that is being heard here, even if it does not concern the report. The following point is the report on migration for 2014, so maybe this debate could take place there, but it is, of course, up to the Members to decide where to debate, even if it is not entirely on the subject. You see, I, Mrs Válková, through Mr President, do not feel like Odysseus at all, but rather dance between eggs. So the great charybda is a nice analogy, but here it is a dance between eggs, because the left-wing part of the political spectrum calls me right-wing radical and fascist, right-wing politicians back to left-wing populist. And we're just trying to follow the law. So specific things, colleagues and colleagues. I was in Bavaria, which is affected by a very significant migration crisis. It has more than 160,000 or 170,000 migrants on its territory officially, and the message from Bavaria is: We thank the Czech Government for complying with valid European and Czech laws. This is the message from Bavaria, where I spoke with my Bavarian colleague, the Minister of the Interior, and they say: Just don't do what other European countries do, don't do the corridor that migrants will flow to the Czech Republic. That is, if I were to paraphrase your speeches, colleagues, the one who is dealing with zero tolerance for violations of laws here is the government of the Czech Republic in relation to migration. Anyone who is caught in the territory of the Czech Republic and does not have valid documents is detained, is in detention. We are often criticized for that, too. He's in the ward. Where it doesn't apply, and here we are in some kind of communication disharmony, when I say it with the European Commission, it is their report on the return policy of the Czech Republic. But they also include people who come to the Czech Republic legally, arrive with a tourist visa and violate the conditions of the visa. These people are captured by the Police of the Czech Republic, they will be given a deadline to leave the territory - but they entered as tourists. Of course, if they're caught a second time after the deadline, they're still in detention. Yes, it is true that we are one of the few European countries that approach such a harsh penalty for offense. This crossing the state border without a valid document is, please nicely, in the Czech legal order of offense. Even for this offence, i.e. de facto a criminal offence, or, let's say, a violation of lower order law, if I say it lay, in the Czech Republic these people are in detention. They're in that ward for a simple reason. We need to know who we are playing in the Czech Republic. We do not have the ambition to hold these people longer than we need, we do not have the ambition to torture them, we certainly do not want to give them the conditions for the 21st century, but we want to know from a security point of view who entered the Czech Republic and whether they pose a threat to the Czech Republic. As far as the anti-Semitism crimes are concerned, they were units of cases on the Internet, it's described there. The question of religious extremism is not addressed in this report. That's in relation to Islam. I don't think we're fighting Islam. We're fighting a violation of the law as such. And for us, it is a priority in that Europe, Mr Okamura, I think that we have always been able to treat ourselves correctly in this Chamber of Deputies on some information basis that Members need, we are trying to equip ourselves from the Ministry of the Interior to have arguments so that they know our positions in advance, so I just think that we are bound by transnational international treaties and we are bound by European legislation. That's what I was talking about in my first performance. We cannot adopt laws outside this framework outside the legal framework of the European Union in the territory of the Czech Republic. We're simply bound by international treaties, we're part of a community and we don't live in a vacuum. And we respect precisely these international agreements, the Czech rule of law and the law of the European Union. We may be following them in some interpretational practice a little harder and harder than any other country, but I think it's effective. We're not on the main migration route. We can talk about whether it's because we're holding these people here, or for geographical reasons, that's probably the question of a professional debate, and it's not part of that point. At the end of your speech, you asked us here to decide, as a government, to put it together and hand it over to the opposition. I have bad news for you through Mr President: we are not going to do this yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u35	I thank the Home Secretary Milan Chovanc. Mr Tomio Okamura is still in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we have moved a little further in this debate and we have therefore concluded that the government is actually crying over spilled milk, because there are some European Union treaties that we have not yet learned whether the government likes it or not, whether it agrees with them or not, but in any case, because there are international commitments of the European Union, then the government can not actually do anything at all. So, at the end of my speech, I'd like to ask the Minister directly. A large proportion of Czech citizens want to vote in a referendum on speaking or staying in the European Union. Will your party, your government, your coalitions, allow citizens to decide for themselves in a democratic vote whether or not they believe in the European Union and want to remain in it? Yes or no? Do you agree that citizens themselves should have the opportunity and the right to decide their future in their homeland, who they will live with? All I have to do is answer yes, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u37	Thank you. That was Mr Tomio Okamura's speech. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. I don't see anyone. Minister - still in the debate, I thought I would give him the final word, but in the debate. So, please, in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I have spoken here not about the European Union's treaties, I have spoken about the fact that European Union law is superior to us and that is how we have committed ourselves to it. This is, of course, an international treaty within the UN, Mr Okamura, through Mr President. Because it is also a matter of refugeeism within the UN, it is not just a policy of the European Union. There we are bound by international treaties and those international treaties are, say, some of the 1950s or 1960s. Notabene, our arguments towards Europe refer exactly to these agreements. They're refugee contracts. It is primarily a fundamental charter of rights and freedoms, and we define why mandatory quotas will not work because the person concerned will be reallocated against his will. This is the simple legal argument and here we still want an answer from the European Commission. Yesterday, the media flashed that we received one, we didn't get one. That means we don't know what the answer is. We sent a notabene request to the European Commission for information last Friday. I don't expect that in this complex legal environment and in the legal philosophy that awaits us, the answer will be here. Well, I guess I'll just take it for a bit of noise. On the question of referendum. The answer is so simple, I was talking about it. If, in this country, political parties and entities that put the European Union's withdrawal as their priority in their electoral programme win, this will probably happen one day. This government is pro-European, social democracy is pro-European, and we have no reason to change anything about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u39	I thank the Home Secretary Milan Chovanc. I don't see anybody in the debate, I'm done with the debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I therefore ask who wants to join the detailed debate on the motion for a resolution. If no one applies, I will ask the rapporteur to present a motion for a resolution on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you once again to the motion for a resolution, because after the debate, perhaps some of us will not be entirely sure what they would vote on, so I think it is quite a good idea to repeat this. The text of the resolution or the draft text of the resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Report on extremism in the territory of the Czech Republic in 2014, Evaluation of the Implementation of the Concept of Combating extremism for 2014 and Concept of Combating extremism for 2015.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u41	Thank you to the rapporteur. I ask you again if anyone wants to speak in the debate. This is not the case; I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. So we're going to vote, but first I'm going to put you all out. And since I've called on the noisy to move into the lobby, I'm going to ask you for a new registration. I will run the gong so that they know in the lobby that we will vote, and once the number of entries is settled, we will address the resolution. We will decide on the motion for a resolution in the vote number 142, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 142, from 115 in favour of 109, against no one. The motion was accepted. We took note of the report on extremism in 2014. We'll proceed with paragraph 194. The Minister is in position. [[To Mr Stanjur:]] I will just ask, Mr President, for a colleague of Mr Bezecný to come, who will be the alternate rapporteur for Mrs Jana Černochová, who is duly excused today. I ask Prime Minister Stanjura to take the floor as a priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u42	If President Faltýnek would still last those three meters - I therefore asked between the points not to burden it. I saw what happened on November 3, 2011, when he said there was chaos in the House when we were in charge. So that was four meetings, all four of them gathered 51 members of social democracy, each of them had one point, so there could have been one meeting with four points. The only speaker was essentially Bohuslav Sobotka, the head of your government, so we know. It was during those famous Social Democrats obstructions, when we were here for six days and six nights straight, so between that, we gave three hours to four extraordinary meetings, in three hours we settled it. It is a fully legitimate right, in particular, for the opposition to convene extraordinary meetings, so only to be explained. It's been a good week, and if you're looking for the tapes, they're really nice. For example, I looked at what exactly was said on November 3rd, so at 00.00 one of the most important social democracy speakers, David Rath, who, if you remember, had night services, came here between zero and six in the morning. Then it's just about the extraordinary meeting institute. And if it were an emergency meeting called by the opposition, there's no way I'm talking about it. The Coalition has only one instrument when an emergency meeting is requested, that the President of the House will determine within ten days when it will be, as President Němcová did, and now President Hamáček does. So we didn't do the chaos back then, but your coalition partners today, they had every right. I didn't criticize it at the time, I didn't question it, but it really was four points in four meetings, it could have been one meeting. Then it looks like we're still in session, but we started at 9:00 a.m., and the fourth meeting ended at 12:07 p.m. In 3 hours and 7 minutes we managed four meetings, in the meantime three times was a technical ten-minute break for a change, or to reprogram the type of meeting, meanwhile once or twice took a little break from the social democracy club. Just for the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-22-ps2013-033-07-004-193.u43	I thank Mr Stanjur, who has exercised his right of priority to speak among the points. Now, let's look at the point.
