ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u1	24. Government bill amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws /house print 406/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, four laws are amended by this bill tabled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The essence of the legislation is to clarify the legal framework for the provision of data which have the character of personal and sensitive data, the information systems of the Czech Social Security Administration and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the managing authorities and the coordinating body, which are intended for operational programmes financed from the European Structural and Investment Funds to fulfil their obligations under European Union law, thereby ensuring that the provision of such data on individual individuals supported in projects implemented under operational programmes co-financed by European Union funds is consistent with the principles of personal data protection. Since the effectiveness of the law is proposed in line with the expectation of the implementation of the Employment Operational Programme as of 1 July 2015, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to the Government's proposal under consideration in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u3	I, too, thank you, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the Government, colleagues, as has already been said, the reason for the amendment is to amend the provisions of those laws governing the transmission of information from the information system of the Czech Social Security Administration and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Office of the Labour of the Czech Republic so that the managing authority and the coordinating body, intended for operational programmes financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds, can be transmitted from these systems data on individual natural persons, which will be supported in projects implemented under operational programmes co-financed by European Union funds, in order to enable them to fulfil the obligations laid down by the law of the European Union. Personal data will be obtained primarily from data subjects, i.e. individuals supported, through beneficiaries implementing individual projects. Its positive effect is that, as a result of the failure to adopt the proposed legislation, the use of funds allocated by the European Union to the Czech Republic in the framework of assistance from structural and investment funds would be at risk. It is therefore positive in financial means ensuring greater employment. As a negative, I see a wider treatment outside the Czech Republic with sensitive personal data, but this has been assessed by the competent Office for Personal Data Protection. Each supported person shall be informed in writing before entering the project of the fact that such sources of information will be moved to the European Union for the purposes of controls, recordings and other possible necessary information. Communication of personal data in the regulation brought by the bill is based on the legal measure, respectively. results from an obligation laid down by European Union law. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Office for Personal Data Protection, the proposed regulation is compatible with European Union legislation, the case law of the European Union judicial authorities and international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. Costs shall be incurred on the basis of a regulation of the European Union. One-off expenditure on the construction of the information system is expected in about 10 million. Crowns. However, the explanatory memorandum does not state that there will inevitably be an additional administrative burden on the workers of the Czech Social Security Administration. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs has somehow become accustomed in the past to ensuring that its organization always and everything is provided. Let us just remember the problem of late payment of sickness benefits and maternity benefits after an unexpected change of law initiated by ex-minister Petr Nečas. In addition, the Czech Social Security Administration, in addition to pension and sickness insurance, annually administers contributions to state employment policy and the administration of six compensation laws. Furthermore, the administration for 70 000 clients affected by executions, another 70 000 working old-age pensioners must be recounted each year after the amendment to the Act in increasing their pensions, which was also imposed on them by a new law. A major agenda is for about 81 000 participants in the second pillar of pension insurance, which is actually for private banks at the cost of the state. The new agenda is also associated with the amendment to the Employment Act and the register of disadvantaged people. We now have a House press of 406, which adds an additional administrative burden. Everything should and should be provided by the current number of employees and without increasing financial costs. In addition, the costs of all agendas are calculated from income to so-called. a pension account. This, of course, is not a process that can be ensured indefinitely. I believe that even these problems will be considered by the Ministry when preparing the budget for next year. Otherwise, as far as the substance of the case is concerned, I can recommend a discussion within a short period of time, according to Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate where I am registering an application with Mr Stanjura's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u6	Thank you for the floor. First of all, allow me, on behalf of two MPs, ODS and TOP 09, to raise the veto against the proceedings pursuant to § 90 para. 2. At the same time, I have a question for the Minister. In that first part there are actually proposed exceptions which the government can provide, which is certainly a sensible thing, nothing against. In those exceptions, members of the intelligence service, police members, the General Inspection of the Security Corps and members of the Fire Rescue Corps are listed by tax. I'm not entirely clear about the fire department, but why not? And I ask if you have forgotten - and we would be in favour of not forgetting - the FAO, the Financial Analysis Service, which, in our opinion, has the nature of the intelligence service, and would have the exception, the Government's possibility to grant an exemption for members or employees included in this department. [[be]] This is one of the things that we will want to change in committee discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u7	Madam Secretary is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u8	Thank you for the floor. First of all, in the case of this veto, I would like to ask for a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. And as far as the substantive question is concerned, as far as I know, this has been done with all the departments, and apparently - where is colleague Stanjura? - Sorry, it doesn't seem to apply to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u9	Thank you. I'm registering your proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Another enrollment is Mr. Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u10	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the House Press 406 looks at first sight as such a common technical matter, the aim of which, as the Minister has finally said, is to enable the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to provide data to the managing authorities and the coordinating body designated for operational programmes financed from European -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u11	Mr. Ambassador, I'm so sorry to interrupt, but the noise here is really big, and I can't hear what you're saying. I ask my colleagues again if they have something to say to each other to do so in the lobby and not disturb your speech with their speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Once again, the House's press 406 looks at first sight as such a common technical matter aimed at enabling the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to provide data to the managing authorities designated for operational programmes financed by European funds. This is the data obtained in securing the state employment policy. However, this is also what the Minister has said, including the rapporteur, about personal and sensitive data, including data on individual citizens and their health. This matter, as you will certainly recognise, is no longer a normal technical matter and is a question of whether it is appropriate to provide such data at all. The explanatory memorandum states that personal data will be obtained primarily from data subjects, i.e. individuals supported, through beneficiaries implementing individual projects. Sensitive information required from the relevant information systems is the health status of the person supported, which in particular means an indication of any disability affecting the ability to pursue continuous gainful activity. The explanatory memorandum also states that the need for the transmission of such sensitive data in specific cases results from the fact that the promotion of persons disadvantaged by reason of their state of health falls within one of the categories of indicators monitored explicitly referred to in the Regulation on the European Social Fund. The reasons for obtaining these data directly from the information systems of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs include both the credibility of the data obtained, the real availability of data and the administrative and financial difficulty of obtaining data directly from supported persons. You know, it is increasingly said in the debate over many laws that not adopting one or more of the proposed legal standards, legislation would be linked to the threat of the European Union's use of funds. This is an argument that has been used for almost everything lately. One day we must approve the budgetary rules for territorial budgets or an amendment to the law, which has caused enormous problems for municipalities and mayors, because European money is being used at risk. In the present case, it is again argued by this, i.e. risking the European Union's use of funds. In the present case, however, I believe that this is a further breach of the protection of personal data and I consider it a very dangerous matter. The explanatory memorandum states that the managing authorities are obliged to maintain personal data on persons supported under the European Social Fund programme in order to carry out checks, reporting and evaluation of programmes. In the first part they are still proposed so-called. exceptions or new wording of Section 127a in the Act on the Organisation and Implementation of Social Security governing special procedures for confidentiality and security, where these procedures may be applied not only by the intelligence services but also by the social security authorities. These special procedures shall be laid down by the Government. I submit that I am certainly not an expert on procedures leading to secrecy and security, I do not know how complete the new text of Section 127a is and in some logical correlation with the European Union's request for personal data, if they are needed by the institutions under the European Social Fund programme. There are a lot of questions and there are more, and therefore it is really appropriate to pay quite a lot of attention to this law in committees and not to propose the approval of this law only at first reading. You will certainly accept the arguments I have put forward as valid enough for the fact that President Stanjura vetoed the proceedings of this law under Section 90 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u13	Thank you and now, please, to the microphone of the rapporteur, Mr Opálka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. The reason for the accelerated procedure is that the effectiveness of this law should be as of 1 July of this year. This situation may not have occurred as this task has been discussed since 2012. So if I am not mistaken, it is a matter for two governments back and the institutions of the European Union have finally adopted the relevant standards 17. 12. 2013. So I'm not surprised by the veto that it is, but I'm adopting the Madam Secretary's proposal that I submit to shorten the deadline by 30 days, or 30 days. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-002-024.u15	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking the appellant and the rapporteur whether they are interested in the final words. It's not like that. Therefore, since there has not been a proposal for repayment or rejection, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Social Policy Committee. In connection with the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies with effect from 1. 3. 2015 I propose that we order a bill to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 108, to which 166 are registered, for 138. [[No one.]] I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Social Committee as a guarantee committee. [[14.50 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I'm asking if anyone has a motion for a commandment to another committee to discuss. I don't see anyone. Therefore, we will consider the proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 109, to which 166 are registered, for 107, against 13. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been adopted, and that is the end of the discussion on this point. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
