ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u1	5. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer and Sharing of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund signed in Brussels on 21 May 2014 /German press 324/ - First reading We dealt with this House press on Thursday, October 8, when we interrupted the general debate. Please take the seats at the rapporteur's table as the plaintiff of the Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, on 8. 10. Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, and rapporteur for first reading, Mr Pavel Šrámek. I ask the appellant if he wants to speak in the context of the debate. Isn't that right? She doesn't want to, okay. The rapporteur? Not either. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. With a point of fact, I note Mrs Fischerová's application here. Madam, please come to the microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u2	Thank you for the floor. I wish you all a pleasant evening, ladies and gentlemen. We are already the third time in this first reading, because the first meeting took place on 21 May and last time the Minister of Finance Babiš was not present, so thanks to his absence we are returning to this again today. I have additional questions because I have already spoken in the general debate last time, and I have also expressed my proposal to reject this law at first reading. Everything relates to the fact that the impact of this international treaty actually applies to countries that are members of the euro area. And when I listened to the Minister of Finance here at some point directly, sometimes I read statements in the media, I wanted to ask him if by not being in the euro area, and if we had signed this and entered into this international treaty, what he really feels about the adoption of the euro, this has to do with it, because the banks and their impact, and actually we are applying to it by this international treaty, because we also have some of the banks' mothers, they are actually abroad, they may already have the impact on when the impact will actually be partly on the Czech Republic. I am interested in the opinion of the Minister of Finance whether he is opposed to this treaty or not, because according to him, I don't really know what it is right now. That was probably my question. I still have a minute. In fact, we should commit ourselves to participating in an economic and political project without having an idea of its final form. It is an open project so far, and I say that we can join the banking union and decide only when the decision is made to join the European Union. Let me just say here that Sweden and the United Kingdom have not yet signed this Treaty from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u3	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. [[Minister Babiš is interested in speaking.]] So, Mr. Secretary. Then we will reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, what is my opinion of joining the euro area? Of course, it is the same, especially after seeing the eurozone Member States face the problem of Greece, which was never really supposed to be there, because, as far as I know, the euro area was supposed to be an economic project, not a political project. However, we have some commitments, we are members of the European Union and we have committed ourselves to joining the euro area, but fortunately there is no deadline. It's evolving somehow. I say for myself that the Czech Republic is doing very well, we are actually able to meet all the criteria, today inflation, in terms of bond issuance, we have issued about 64 billion with negative interest, so we are doing very well, in terms of debt we are the sixth least debt in Europe, 41.7 percent for the second quarter of 2015, and I think we have an ambition to get even lower, so from this point of view I think everything is okay. The problem, of course, is that we would probably lose influence on the entry - otherwise, of course, the good Czech National Bank would be completely out of control. From my position - I said I didn't see it at this point, so I don't have a different opinion than I have before. However, we have some agreements that we have signed and the creation of a single crisis management fund - money remains in the Czech Republic and will not be used in the framework of a Europe-wide reserve fund, which, in my view, is somewhere around EUR 55 billion, and only in the case of the Bank's HypoAdrie would not be enough, so from this point of view, I have the same opinion, but I say that we have this commitment and that is why we are proposing it here and therefore the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u5	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u6	I did not fully understand the Minister's statement, but I would like to call on the Minister of Finance and his political movement to vote with us for rejection. By being a ratification process, this means that Parliament has undoubtedly a sovereign right either to ratify or to reject it. If we do this, nothing will happen to us, we are not a member of the eurozone. This is a typical example of the salami method of Brusel, and the worst is when you take the first step, then it can hardly be reversed. And I don't think the banking union is a good project. I agree with the assessment of the state of the Czech economy, which was said by the Minister of Finance. We do not really want to take the first step towards paying Czech citizens for the debts of banks in the southern wing of the euro area. And that's what's really threatening. Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, maybe not during this reign, but it's a real threat. And if you have, colleagues, and I am glad that you are taking our position, if you have a very modest relationship with the adoption of the euro, I can only welcome and appreciate that, so let us not take this step. Let's not take that first step towards the banking union. Why would we do that? I really don't. You know that we have long sought to see the Czech Republic negotiate a change to those conditions, and let us also be honest that when we joined the European Union, the euro and the eurozone looked completely different, there were other treaties, there was no Treaty of Lisbon, there was no Greece. It was a rumor that one state would not vouch for other people's debts and that it could not happen! It can happen. Then why do we have to do it if we don't have to do it? We're in no danger. In our opinion, from the point of view of caution, especially from the point of view of caution, that we are not immediately in danger, we agree on this, support us, let us reject it. When a situation arises when we ourselves want to join the euro area, because it will be beneficial for the Czech Republic, and if these rules apply at that time, then let us vote on it and then let us approve. Let us remember the absurd comments from the last few days - we have a treaty on how to deal with immigrants, the Dublin Treaty. And some states do not fulfil their obligations under this Treaty. When they started fulfilling it as Maďar, they were criticized by those who are doing the same thing today as Hungary. So we have one xenophobic fence, that's what the Maďar do, then we have one sensible solution when someone else builds those fences. And what is the solution of the European Union's bosses, the European Commission? Do they require fulfillment of the contract? They say no, it doesn't work, so let's write some other contract instead of requiring the execution of already concluded contracts. And this is an example of a salami method, and it would be better for us to reject it at first reading. I would just ask the Minister to confirm our opinion that we are safe, no sanctions, nothing if the Czech Parliament refuses to ratify it. I'm convinced of that. We're not stopping anyone. Those who wanted to sign the contract wanted to ratify, so they did, they could put them on those southern debts, that's their decision. But why would we go along with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u7	Thank you. The next party to the debate is Mr Kalousek, then the Minister of Finance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be brief. Mr Stanjura's position was clear, understandable to me. TOP 09 has a different one, I'll try to communicate it clearly and intelligiblely. In 2004, in the referendum, we made a commitment to join the euro, not that there is no deadline, there is no deadline or date, but there is a term that states "without undue delay." That's the exact wording, which is kind of the term. This treaty, which we are to ratify today, has not only been ratified by the countries of the United Kingdom and Sweden, i.e. those countries that have a negotiated exception in terms of entry into the euro area. All other countries, even Denmark, which also has an exemption to negotiate, have ratified all other countries which do not have a negotiated exemption. And if we refuse to ratify, even if we don't have a negotiated exception, we are, in my opinion, in violation of the sentence 'without undue delay'. We say ahead: we want to do everything here to make the commitment we made to slip out of it. I take it the ODS has that opinion. We are quite fundamentally different about this. We believe that superpower politics does not know the concept of a power vacuum, that is, if we are not a solid integral part of the European core, other powers will influence here. As Minister of Finance, of course, I cursed the European Union twice a week, and there is no other way, but all alternatives are far worse. This is, please, the TOP 09 position. We believe that there is no alternative and that is why we will ratify this treaty, and therefore we still take the commitment "without undue delay" seriously, because we have committed ourselves to this. Well, what does he want, yes? I understand what Stanjura wants, I took the liberty of saying what we want and what our position is. I think both of these positions are understandable. But from what Mr. Yes and the Finance Minister have said, I really don't know what the YES position is. Maybe if someone told me, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u9	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u10	I must say that, exceptionally, we may have the same position as Mr Kalousek, because it is the fact that the United Kingdom and Sweden have an exception, and we do not enter the banking union, we are creating a risk fund. If we have ever entered, and without undue delay, the question is, of course, what is unnecessary delay. At this point, there are no concrete steps to enter the euro area. That means we signed the deal and we should ratify it. This does not mean that we are entering a banking union, it does not mean that we are entering the euro area. And it is true that the eurozone is somehow evolving and there is no reason to enter it now. I think the position is clear. We need to create this fund, because our banks are filled with money, they have huge liquidity, and overall, our economy and bonds have a great reputation, but at this point, I don't see why we wouldn't ratify it, because it really isn't a commitment or an entry into the banking union or an entry into the eurozone. So I think, I hope I made that clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u11	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. Mr Stanjura, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u12	It's not quite clear to me, then. I understand that we are opposed, the TOP 09 is in favour and from the speech of the Minister of Finance I understand that he is in favour and against. I really do. I even said in the speech that we weren't going to have immediate costs, but I know how this debate is going to continue if we ratify it. The next step will come and they will say: but you've already approved the first one, you've already applied to it once, so now you can't take it back. It's like I hear it! We've heard it here many times, not me, but my predecessors, that this is how it was done. The minister actually said we don't need it for anything. I agree with him that it may not even threaten us at this point. I agree with that, too. And then I ask, why do we have to ratify it if it doesn't really concern us? Why do we have to do this, except every few months or a few years someone says, "You've already approved it. Maybe others will sit here and say yes, so you've already approved it, so now it's step two, step three. From a cautious point of view - and the Minister agrees that we don't need it, it doesn't threaten us - so why should we ratify it? The Minister likes to remember how he drives or runs his business. You won't sign a contract you don't need. Why would you do that? So I'm asking you one reason. I understood that speech and your position on the euro, which is close to ours, which I really understood. But then I ask, on the basis of that close opinion, if and if so, when should we adopt the euro? Then it would seem to me the logical conclusion that we will not ratify it at this time. And you say: the euro, we wait, there are problems. I agree with that, but then you say in the second sentence: let's approve it. I don't understand. I see a contradiction between the first part and the second. If anyone has a political opinion and is in favour of the banking union, then logically, they also vote in favour of this draft agreement. I understand that. If anyone says they want to... [[Prime Minister, your time.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u13	Thank you, and I ask if anyone else is still applying for the facts. Mr. Finance Minister. Please, Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u14	I'll try again, then. That's why we're supposed to ratify it because we signed it, the deal. If we hadn't signed it, we would have been the only member country in the European Union that didn't have an exception and wouldn't have signed it. And again, it's no commitment. It's not a commitment. It's a mechanism for a bank crisis. Fortunately, we had a bank crisis a long time ago. The Lehman Brothers crisis didn't hit us. We cleaned it out before, within the Czech Consolidation Agency, so it is a mechanism, a reserve fund for the bank crisis. And when we will enter the euro area. I have made it clear that I am not considering joining the euro area for our movement within our mandate. I don't see why. That there is unnecessary delay, so it is, but it certainly does not concern, at least I speak for our movement, our mandate. We are glad to have the Czech crown, we are glad that our economy is pro-export and thanks to the crown it works very well. So I was trying to explain. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u15	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Mrs Fischerová, de facto. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u16	Thanks again for the word. I'll give one more question to the Minister of Finance, because I see the contract as such a blank check where there is no clear deposit insurance. This has to do with it very closely, as one of the pillars. So what does the Minister think about it, if that's appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-003-005.u17	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word. It's not like that. The rapporteur, too. Since there has been a motion for rejection in the debate, we will address this proposal. This proposal was tabled by Mrs Fischerová and Mr Stanjura. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. We will now vote on a motion to reject this government proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 10, to which 101 are registered, for 31, against 65. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. So I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the motion being ordered to negotiate with the Foreign Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 11, to which 102 are registered, for 99, against 1. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee and I am ending the first reading of this press. Before we proceed to discuss another point, allow me to load Mr Fiedler's apologies, who, for personal reasons for today's negotiations, apologizes between 17 and 17.30. So now I'm starting reading the point.
