ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u1	18. Proposal by Members of Jan Farský, Andrej Babiš, Pavel Bělobrádek and others for the issue of the Act on the Register of Contracts and on the amendment of Act No. 137/2006 Sb., on public procurement, as amended /house print 42/ - second reading I ask Mr Farský to present this proposal for a group of Members. I would also like to state the conclusions that are still in the negotiations. On 21 January 2014, at the 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the press was ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee, the Economic Committee, the Supervisory Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Given that this was before the amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act, we must follow the transitional provisions of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure, with the fact that when it is not clear when the draft law submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, which is a committee of guarantee, the Guarantee Committee of the Chamber of Deputies must be determined. I therefore propose that we determine the Committee's constitutionally legal guarantee committee. Does anybody else have a proposal from those authorized committees? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the designation of the Guarantee Committee to be the Constitutional Legal Committee. We will decide in the 81 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of setting up a guarantee committee to be a constitutional committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 81 of the 141 Members present for 113, against no one. The guarantee committee has been approved. The committee resolution was delivered to the Chamber of Deputies as press 42/2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. We will therefore discuss individual news reports and I will call on the various rapporteurs. I ask, though, if the applicant Farský to express himself before the opening of the hearing. Yes. So now I ask Mr Jan Farský to take the floor for a group of plaintiffs. But yet, my colleague, I will ask you to be patient, I will only read two apologies, and within 13 hours my colleague Benešík apologizes, and at 18 o'clock the chairman of the Environment Committee, Robin Böhnisch, apologizes for today's meeting, for reasons of diplomatic negotiations. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would probably not have to represent the Act on the Register of Contracts here for a long time, because it is a law that has been here for a long time, it is often mentioned, many times we have already had it on the board as one of those that will follow, and many times it has not gotten to it either. But it is precisely because, from the first reading to today, almost record 521 days have passed, and we, as the House, have determined that we want to return it within 90 days to our meeting, so I would like to remind myself of the long genesis of the short speech of this press and recall its essence. The idea is not original, it is basically written from the Slovak model, where in August 2010 the then Prime Minister, Mrs Iveta Radičová, came up with the idea that if it operates with public funds, it should be managed publicly. It seems like a very simple idea, and in Slovakia it also took a simple thought, so the law was prepared quickly, the law was finally approved on 9 December 2010, so I am talking about the Slovak version, with effect from 1 January 2011. From the idea to approval, some four months passed, legisvakance was three weeks old and the law in its pioneer form and in its, I would say, much more stringent form than that currently proposed in the Czech Republic, began to apply and was effective. Why do I even mention the Slovak example? Because after a year of operation, my colleagues and I went to Slovakia for the Minister of Justice, for the people of the Government in charge of him in Slovakia, for the Members who promoted him, it was March 2012, and with their help and debates on what proved to be good in the law in Slovakia, we prepared such, say, a third version of the Slovak bill and after the debate with many non-profits, with many transparency experts in the House in June 2012. The first reading took place in November 2012 and the House was dissolved in August. That was 292 days from the first reading. Now we are in record time, but I firmly believe that this is not an obstacle to the end of the law being passed. The law has become a pre-election theme. You may not have been able to avoid it, and you have also rarely avoided signing under a commitment to support the law and finally approving it. I think there may have been some 160 signatures among the MPs. But of course we know that the devil is always hidden in detail and in how the final wording is. In December 2013, the law was re-submitted, the first reading took place in January, the deadline because we were aware as Members that it was a complex material, we extended the standard 60 days to 90 days for committee discussions, and as I mentioned, today is 521th day and we are getting to second reading. In May and June, the Economic Committee, the Supervisory Committee, both interrupted, and the Constitutional Committee then defined some of its aspects of complicated or problematic matters and returned the petitioners to the debate with the government to modify this law to be digestible to all concerned. In July 2014, an assignment was made from the Prime Minister to the Ministry of the Interior, in August a somewhat unfortunate episode took place, which made the Act on the publication of contracts rather a law on the blackening of contracts, and then from September to April of this year a coalition group came together, which gradually modified this bill. The ten-paragraph bill remained the Act on the Register of Contracts, but, of course, as always compromises bring some adjustments, in this case too, compromises have taken place. According to the Act on the Register of Contracts, it is no longer considered according to the coalition version on the publication of invoices and orders, it is not considered the obligation of publication for ČEZ, for contracts it is worth more than CZK 50,000, there is an exception for smaller municipalities. Smaller municipalities, I mean over 6,000 municipalities out of a total of 6250, but this was an agreement that was already before the coalition took over all municipalities below the size of the municipalities with extended scope. But the point is that the basic self-executable, self-enforceable sanctions is that a contract that is not published as if it does not exist is inefficient, so it remained in the proposal. That's the whole gros, the shem of the contract register law, which makes it subject to its functionality. The fact that the contract must first be published before any performance can be carried out over it. This is a measure that does not lead to the need for tens or hundreds of officials to control the municipalities. I'm talking about municipalities because I've worked as mayor for a long time, and I've spent a lot of time with the mayor in the contract register debates, but of course it concerns the whole public sector, and at least what we've calculated, so the amount of finance flowing through municipal budgets is about five percent of the volume to which the contract register will and should apply. The simple ten paragraphs of the original proposal remained, the original shem of the nullity of the contracts also remained. Part of the contract register was cut off, and then I'm going to try to put the cut part in it with the amendments I'm going to apply to. What I consider to be the greatest weakness is to postpone the effectiveness of the sanctions in the coalition proposal, because it essentially immobilizes the law. More or less, it suggests that this government should approve the law, but it should only apply effectively to the next government, which I do not think is exactly the right procedure. Just for a little while. Of course, the law created a great controversy, quite naturally, because it is going in a slightly different direction than we are under this, but also many of the previous governments. Because he's turning inside. He, when we think of the budget as the keg that finance flows into through taxes, doesn't figure out that he's trying to pump taxes from mandatory entities in more different ways, by watching, by other sales records, by other complications and obstacles to entrepreneurs. He says the barrel needs to be clogged first, so that the funds don't run out of it, so that they can be dealt with effectively. And once we can declare, as state officials, that we are dealing with the taxes collected economically, transparently, and anyone can check it, then, in my opinion, it is only possible to discuss how we will proceed to tax adjustments and any tightening-up systems. It is also, of course, no secret that the law, in its own way, goes against the nature of politics, because we are losing part of our power, part of our information power, because the information that belonged only to us politicians, suddenly becomes public. However, I think we should take this step because the law in ten paragraphs in its simplicity, and I dare say it just because I am not the original author of the idea, but because I copied it from Slovakia, I think it is truly brilliant in the concept. He's self-enforceable. You do not have to receive officials, even the system in Slovakia, publishing, there went to some 600,000 crowns, with us already functional, since 2013 on the website of the Ministry of Interior on the public administration portal there exists a register of contracts, many entities publish their contracts there. So even the costs of introducing it should not be what discourages us from approving this law. [[11.30 hours]] The last thing I want to say about it, of course, it looks like if we don't accept any more officials, we won't have control bodies, so what's the point if there's data hanging somewhere? And who's gonna look at them. I am convinced that many subjects will look at them and especially those who are interested. I guess we can't expect an ordinary taxpayer to sort of go through one contract after another and check unit prices and say whether they match average or not. Of course, the one we can expect this from, and where I think the pressure will be completely natural, are competing players. And when it is clear, and it was the example mentioned, I will use it now, that somewhere within the Czech Republic there are territories where a square metre of pavement is built for seven, eight times the prices in another region, so I expect companies that are moving in this area to pay for someone to pull data from the system and tell them where there is room for their business and on which territory they should concentrate. What will result in effective winners will be won by those who get to work under the best conditions, and will also win in the finals by the taxpayer and the state budget, because either savings will occur, or more will be corrected in order for the same means. From that point of view, I think the law is definitely good if it's approved. Of course, we have a lot of amendments, some of them tightening it up, some of them improving it, some of them weakening it, but that is the standard of amendments, and they will, of course, be introduced here and we will vote on them at third reading. That's all I'm saying at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u3	I thank the representatives of the appellants and we will now continue, in the words of the rapporteurs. I cannot make factual comments because it is not possible to respond to the debate. First, we need to start our negotiation process. The Guarantee Committee has been set up by the Constitutional Committee, so the first rapporteur will be Mr Chvojka as rapporteur for the Constitutional Committee. The rapporteur of the Economic Committee Jan Birke will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, rapporteur for the Constitutional Legal Committee. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to speak briefly to this press not only as rapporteur for the Constitutional Legal Committee, but as rapporteur, who was already in charge of this press at first reading, and now he will probably be in charge of it in the final third reading. I'd probably repeat some things, some things I'd say new. Genesis of the law. As my colleague Farský, the translator, said, the first reading was a long time ago. It's been a long time. The reasons why the second reading is today are certainly not the kind of thing that anyone would not want, as it is somehow imposed on us by various civic associations or some journalists, this law, but rather because it is a draft law which has about ten paragraphs, so it is a very complex material. In my opinion, in some way, not only in my opinion, the material had to be discussed, some political consensus had to be found, any risks and things had to be cleaned out of the law that would threaten the Czech economy in some way. This matter was dealt with by the Constitutional Committee, which expressed itself on this matter last year. Then, however, the amendments adopted by the Constitutional Committee fell somehow because of the fact that a political agreement was sought in particular by the coalition, several coalition council meetings took place and several meetings of the so-called working group on this press, where I, a colleague of Vondráček from YES and colleagues from the people's people, took turns there. The outcome of the meeting of the coalition group plus the meeting of the coalition board is a comprehensive amendment that we have tabled with our colleague Vondráček and colleague Bartošek. The comprehensive amendment is a compromise between all the different opinions, topics, risks and things that simply had to be addressed. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I would like to say, although some say that the law is simple, that it has ten paragraphs, that it is the most beautiful law that should be passed in one month, that it cannot be. The law solves a lot of things. It introduces, for example, absolute nullity once again into the rule of law, from which the new Civil Code has completely deviated since last year. For example, it raised some doubts about institutions as respected as the Supreme Administrative Court or the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I have sometimes misunderstood the criticisms of different subjects, who mind, why absolute invalidity bothers. It is because we abandoned her last year and now we are putting her back into legal order again, and I think that is, of course, nonsense. However, I understand that it's a certain principle, the gross law, so there's nothing we can do about it. Another thing that had to be dealt with, and I am glad that the coalition working group and coalition council found solutions on the ground, is the concern of the smallest municipalities, especially the first and second degree, of possible administrative difficulty. That's settled. The draft law provides for a two-year transitional period for municipalities smaller than those with extended scope. We know that many of us are doing community policy, that there are municipalities in our territories, where there is a loose mayor who goes to work every Wednesday for two hours, for example, and he's basically alone, and this would really cause him a lot of trouble and trouble. That was a certain short genesis. I am glad that we have the law at last at second reading, because I confess, I am a little annoyed by the various activisms of the various reconstructions of the state, which are waiting for us to approve it, and they are pushing us to hold it back, and in the service law, they say that we have discussed little and that it is pasculi. Now they're telling us that we've been discussing this for a long time and when we're gonna approve it. So there's a contradiction. Please, let's end the second reading today. We're looking at celebrities like Čok Čok or Ota Černý. They're waiting for it to be approved one day. So I think we should just make them happy and somehow throw the law off the table so that a fellow Farský can find another topic too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u5	I thank the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee to Jan Chvojka. Now the news report by Jan Birke for the Economic Committee. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u6	Thank you, Mr President. The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic addressed this at its meeting under the House press 42. Allow me to introduce you to the resolution that was marked 42/5. The Economic Committee, after hearing the introductory words of Mr Jan Farský representative and Mr Jan Birke's report, interrupts and interrupts the discussion of the House of Press 42 after a general debate and a detailed debate and adopts a resolution under Roman two asking the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to interrupt this draft law and recommend the Government of the Czech Republic to submit this bill as a government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur of the Supervisory Committee, Mr Martin Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u8	Colleagues and colleagues, one more good morning. My intelligence report will be even shorter than my previous speaker. At its 5th meeting on 10 April 2014, the Supervisory Committee adopted a two-point resolution interrupting the discussion of the House's press 42 and empowered me to inform you about it. Any further comments would be unacceptable beyond this very brief resolution by the Supervisory Committee, which would be unacceptable on my part as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u9	I thank the rapporteur, Martin Novotný. Mr Jiří Petrů, rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting on 10 June 2014, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development adopted a resolution that you have in the House press number 42/8. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, after the comments of the representatives of the submitters Mgr Jan Farský and, after the report by me and after the debate, the Chamber of Deputies recommends rejecting the number 42 press. Then, of course, he instructed me to introduce you to this. I would also like to outline a little bit more of why this rejection took place. There were, of course, many reservations, but the fundamental reservations are also based on the basis of an electronic record of 0042/P on the compatibility of the bill on the Register of Contracts with European Union law. [[There's a noise level rising in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that Directive 2004/17/EC contains in its Article 13 and also in Directive 2004/18/EC Article 6 provisions which provide that the contracting authority does not disclose information communicated to it by economic operators and has been designated confidential by them. Such information shall include, in particular, technical or commercial secrets and confidential aspects of tenders.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u11	I'm going to interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'm going to ask you for some peace. I understand you're discussing other things. Please discuss them outside the boardroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u12	Thank you. It is therefore clear from the above that the European Union's legislation provides confidential information with a greater degree of protection than the bill on the Register of Contracts, which refers to the Act on Free Access to Information in this case. While this law guarantees the protection of business secrets which are not subject to disclosure obligations, but no longer to information which has been classified as confidential by economic operators and which, as a general rule, but not merely and exclusively, involve trade secrets. In view of the above, it would be desirable to amend the draft law on the Register of Contracts in such a way as to conform to the said legislation of the European Union. The second part of the reservation of this basis refers to the fact that the automatic cancellation of the contract should also be assessed as problematic in Section 7 of the draft law if it is not published within three months of the date on which it was concluded as too rigid and formalistical consequence of the omission. Such an approach is contrary to the basic principles of the Civil Code, which is based on the presumption that legal action, although suffering from a defect, must always be interpreted as valid rather than invalid. If invalidity is given after all, we must give priority to nullity relevant to absolute. Relevant invalidity must then be called in time by the authorised entity, otherwise its actions will be considered valid. Where, without further cancellation, the contract is not merely due to failure to fulfil its obligation to disclose it, on the part of an undesirable situation consisting of the abolition of legal acts at a private level which neither Party wished and which will have an adverse legal effect consisting in the need to deal with unjustified enrichment resulting from this repealed contract. It is therefore appropriate to recommend a solution to the issue of non-compliance with the obligation to publish a contract by establishing appropriate, sufficiently stringent sanctions at the level of administrative law. The conclusion on this basis is that the proposed legislation is therefore partly compatible with European Union law. I think it is beyond the demands of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the last news report. I am opening a debate in which I have two applications with priority rights - Mr Vondráček and Minister Chovanec. I am registering a factual point, and there is a response to the debate, so only after the first speech with Mr Vondráček's priority right. I note that Mr Urban is making a factual comment on this matter. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u14	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the contract register... I have to enjoy it a little bit, because we've been waiting a long time to say it here. I'll be brief for my own sake, because there's not much time. Fortunately, I can fluently follow up on my colleagues who told the genesis how it was. In short, I would return to the comprehensive amendment tabled under my name in the system. There was a way to him, as my colleague Farský said. The original proposal aroused stormy reactions, a broad discussion. I think that, to a large extent, it was misunderstood and miscommunications and false reports and considerations about this law. The only constitutional committee has been able to grasp the matter in its actions. He took initiatives, for example, by the Association of Towns and Municipalities and recommended this press for the next legislative process. On the basis of these results, the debate in the Constitutional Committee subsequently started to work a working group of coalition Members, which set out to hear all the suggestions and comments that were made on both the Constitutional Committee and the debate that followed the negotiations. As has already been said here, the comments of small municipalities and so on have been heard. The public's suggestions were heard, which came only subsequently. Of course, it took some time. And the question is whether we have chosen the right procedure, that we have actually listened to all of them, and we have taken the debate so widely. I think it was the right way, because the subject isn't easy. It was above all possible for the State Reconstruction initiative to take part in the coalition council, so that its representatives personally participate in the work on the text of the law, along with the Ministry of the Interior legislation, which I believe has not yet happened in the past. So they were cut out to meet them as best they could. In fact, an impact study was carried out at the Ministry of the Interior, when comments were addressed, had the opportunity to comment, had the opportunity to raise its concerns about the economic effects of this legislation. And on the basis of this impact study, it was further worked with the text of the law. Among other things, the result of this work is that there was a limit of CZK 50,000 per contract and orders and invoices were launched, because this has dramatically simplified and reduced the administrative burden associated with this law. I am pleased to hear from the petitioner Mr Farský that the spirit of the law has been preserved in spite of all these adjustments, because that is what we have been trying to do. As I said, there has been a two-year delay for small municipalities in order to be able to prepare for practice or to be equipped with equipment. Subsequently, the possibility of testing was prepared here, when I call it that, because the law will be effective, will be valid, but the sanctions of absolute nullity of the contract, which will not be published, are postponed for one more year. We can discuss the length of the test operation. The principle is that everyone learns to insert a contract into the register so that practice can find some questionable moments to try the system itself, so that it can also be tried if someone wants to blacken or destroy the text, whether they are doing it right or not. There's just going to be a public debate if the register works properly. The text was, in my opinion, alienated so that it could be corrected without any fatal consequences of the entry if there was an error, an administrative error. It will be possible to correct the entry if it has not been done correctly in good faith. It will be possible to correct it if, following a judicial decision, it is established that part of the text has been wrongly blackened or some metadata have not been unlawfully published. [[11.50 hours]] I consider this essential and most important, and these may have been the hardest work, keeping business secrets with state companies and companies. Each state enterprise and company has the opportunity to protect its business secrets, it has the opportunity not to disclose the part of the contract that concerns business secrets, even if the contract itself is not a business secret, but when the whole summary of commercial supply relationships can ultimately represent a certain protected value, it is a business secret, which was the biggest concern, and I consider it to be the most difficult thing for my person to do. We are now coming in front of you with this text, we are presenting it and, of course, we are ready to answer individual questions. I have experience with several debates with the mayors, when of course the initial reaction was very negative, but when the individual elements are explained, the objections will be significantly reduced and there really is a possibility of reaching a certain consensus. I was most assaulted by the mayor that they would have to scan all the contracts. So it must be explained to them that scanning does not count, because the scanned document is basically useless for further electronic work, so the texts of the contracts will be stored in machine-readable code and will allow, for example, what my colleague Farský said, that he will be able to work all over with prices and it will be possible to create some, say, an approximate unit national price. This complex proposal is therefore submitted under number 2240 and certainly with its name, on behalf of colleague Chvojka and colleague Bartošek, we will then sign up for it. At the end of my contribution, I would briefly discuss my other two amendments. First of all, it is Amendment 2363, which, in contrast to the comprehensive amendment, calculates that the register will be managed by the Ministry of Regional Development, so this proposal envisages that the register will be managed by the Ministry of the Interior. That was, say, one of the major coalition contradictions that the Ministry would take over. The Minister of the Interior is present and I would like to thank him for finally resolving these contradictions simply by accepting the register as his own and continuing to be this Ministry of the Interior. And then there is an amendment, which has been negotiated in coalition and basically has been urged by the ANO movement to submit it separately, and that is an amendment that concerns existing treaties, which still apply to individual ministries, or on which it can be implemented and will be implemented. The register of contracts as such is a system set up for the future, which will work with the effectiveness of the law. But in order to manage the public administration effectively, in order to find out what is going on at the various ministries, in order to find possible savings, in order for there to be some public control, the ANO movement is proposing that legislation be adopted under this bill, that individual ministries are required to publish all so-called laws since the adoption of the law. live contracts, that is, on the basis of which it is fulfilled or will be fulfilled. I will therefore ask my fellow Members to support this amendment as well. For the time being, I'm ready for any questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u15	I thank Mr Vondráček, who, with the priority right of the vice-chairman of the club, spoke to this press. With a factual remark, Mr Milan Urban and then the Minister of the Interior. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, the basic motto that the petitioner here told that public funds should be managed in public is certainly godly and can be totally agreed with. That is why, with wonder, I do not see in this bill a principle that guards public funds, namely subsidies that go to the private sector. And the subsidies from the state budget are certainly in order, I think, about six dozen billion crowns a year, and so I have prepared, of course, the cognitive proposal that corrects it, with the fact that I have to say here that before I applied for it, I am very strongly criticized by the so-called. By reconstructing the state that I took the liberty of saving private companies here. I mean, if we're really gonna keep an eye on public funds, it's about subsidies. Thus, the amendment that I tabled, which I will sign up to in a detailed debate, says that the person who receives the subsidy in a given year is more than 20 million. CZK, and it's registered in the Commercial Register, so you don't accuse me of wanting to involve God knows who, some beekeepers and the like, so he's also obliged to publish contracts. I'm sure you'll argue that this threatens the competitiveness of private companies. And that doesn't threaten the state, where they have direct competition, which receives the subsidy? I think the law had a good intention, but it's written purposefully, so if it can't be fixed, it can't be voted for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u17	I thank Mr Milan Urban for his time on the point of fact. Now with priority rights Mr. Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have often been confronted with media outputs during the negotiation of this law that the Ministry of the Interior is holding back or does not want to cooperate or is the frog on the spring. I didn't comment on this because I don't think it's good to talk to some media partners, but here let me make a statement. I would like to thank both the three Members and, above all, the employees of the Ministry of the Interior... Mr President through the President! [[To the messenger. Stanjuri.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u19	I would really ask my colleagues for peace. I understand that the contract register has been irritating this House for a long time, as one of the petitioners here said, but please, if you're discussing something else outside the O.R. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u20	I would like to say here that this is a standard that is currently only being practiced in Slovakia, and it was necessary to define, debate and clearly clarify the parameters of this law so that we do not spill a child with the so-called bathtub. Today we have a text that will be discussed, of course, we will be debating the various amendments, and I would like to comment on one amendment by Mr Vondráček, and that is who will manage the register in substance. We have had a long debate on this, and I am convinced that the register should primarily be managed by the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Regional Development. Even so, we were assured by Minister Jourová at the time that it would remain in the Ministry of Regional Development, in the end we simply did not agree and in other coalition debates we moved to the option that this register would be managed by the Ministry of Justice. From our point of view and in our view, this would mean a change in the law of competence, and that is the main reason why the Ministry of the Interior has decided to take responsibility for us moving this law forward and that it is ready to take responsibility for the creation and administration of this register. Creating and managing this register, colleagues and colleagues, creating and operating for the first three years will cost about 50 miles. Kč. Finally, once again, I would like to thank the employees of the Ministry of the Interior who have done a very good job in preparing this standard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u21	Thank you, Home Secretary, and we will continue. Before we go into the next debate, I have a registered chairman of the Social Democracy Club and Vice-President of the ANO Club, so I would first give the floor to the chairman of the Social Democracy Club, because this will be a procedural proposal, as I have heard from two speeches, including my colleague Schwarz. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u22	Thank you for the floor. I have announced to the President that I would like to speak at 12 o'clock. As you know, the House has included at this hour the Minister of Health's information to finance the treatment of multiple sclerosis, in simple terms, and unfortunately the proposal has not been consulted by the Minister, who is currently speaking in the Senate and presenting and defending his proposals there, so of course he cannot be here. Mr Běhounek is here, who is also the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the VZP, who could possibly submit some information on this matter, but it seems that the agreement would rather be interrupted by this point. So if that's the case, then we could have a procedural vote at 12 o'clock to break that point and continue the negotiation of the contract register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u23	Okay, thank you. I'm registering your proposal. With a factual and procedural proposal also Mr Kalousek, Chairman of TOP 09. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I understand that this can happen, but I would ask that the ministers of the Czech Government be aware of their priorities. The Government is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies, not to Parliament as a whole. The Chamber of Deputies. This means that when you tell us, Mr President, that the Minister of Government is in the Senate, and therefore cannot be here, it is exactly the same as saying to your wife "I'm sorry, I couldn't be at home, I was at the mistress'. " I just really wish you'd realized the priorities of the pillar of democratic power independently of each other if you realized that the House was a sovereign over the government, and they didn't give these awkward excuses. The Government Is Not Responsible Parliament as a whole, the Senate at all, is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies. And this is where the Minister of Health was supposed to be, because the Chamber of Deputies said that here at 12 o'clock, the Minister of Health would be defending something. No other constitutional institution has the right to take the Minister of Health from the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u25	I understand. I have nothing to say. To calm down, all I'm saying is that my colleague Zelienková apologizes from 12:45 am to 21:00 pm for work reasons, so I'm saying another apology from today's meeting. Now, my colleague Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u26	Thank you for the floor. I cannot accept the argument put forward by my colleague Kalousek. Minister Němeček was excused for today here in the Chamber of Deputies because he promised to participate in the Senate, where he submitted and defended his proposals. I think that this is a procedure that is common since Parliament came into being. Minister Němeček will be happy to provide information on the subject, he is ready for it. But to blame him for being in the upper chamber, I don't think he's correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u27	Well, Prime Minister, I don't want to comment. I am just quoting - I will give the floor to the chairman of the TOP 09 - but Minister Svatopluk Němeček is excused from 14.35 for work reasons. That is an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I must say that I agree with the argument made by the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, which I do not do very often. prosit, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u28	We both know, Mr President, that it will not help us if we agree with each other, either. But it's true. He's only got one boss in his life. And I don't blame the current situation on Minister Němeček. I blame it on you, Mr President of the ČSSD parliamentary club through Mr President. You're supposed to know that the only head of government is the Chamber of Deputies, and that if I make a date with you as Chairman of Club TOP 09 and we have a date for 8:00 p.m., the Prime Minister will call you at 6:00 p.m. that he wants to have you at kramářův's villa at 8:00 p.m. that he'll probably ring my phone at 6:15 p.m. and you'll apologize for having to see the Prime Minister at kramářův's villa, and I'll understand. I just want to say that there is no greater authority over the rule of the Czech Republic than the Chamber of Deputies. This means that an apology that the Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic is anywhere other than the ARO hospital cannot work. Even if he was with the president. Please, would you, colleagues from social democracy, be aware of the constitutional system of the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u29	There. I'll make it simple. I understand the application with priority rights of the President of the Social Democracy Club. I would like to finish this procedural dispute before I hand over the proceedings. I see the proposal from the President of the Social Democracy Club as a proposal to put to the vote that we will change the agenda of the meeting, even though it has been approved. It takes two steps to do that. This means that there has been a situation which the Chamber of Deputies sees as a situation which is so serious that, beyond the time during which the agenda is changing, that is, from 9 to 9.30 on Thursday, from 11 to 11.30 on a maximum basis, we will therefore vote on the fact that such a situation has occurred, with an apology being given to the President of the Social Democracy Club, that Mr Němeček is in the Senate. That's one vote. If we do not vote, I have no choice but to immediately interrupt the item we are discussing, i.e. the register of contracts, and to initiate item number 172, which has been properly included. Because now we're off the charts, only those with priority rights are talking. That's my policy. If you do not agree to this, raise an objection to the President's procedure, because I would now have put to the vote that there has been a situation in which we must decide to change the agenda of the meeting outside the times. Do you agree with this, or does anyone object to the President's procedure? Nobody objects. I will begin the vote by order number 82, in which I ask if the Chamber of Deputies agrees that there has been a situation where we will change the programme outside the specified times. I'll check you out first and ask you for a new registration. As soon as the number of entries is settled, I will begin the vote. Initiating serial number 82 vote. I ask whether the Chamber of Deputies considers the situation that the Minister of Health is in the Senate so serious that we change the agenda of the meeting. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 82, from 125 present for 70, against 28. The motion was accepted. We can therefore vote on changing the agenda of the meeting and not discussing the fixed item 172 and continue with item 18 of the Treaty Register. I've begun the vote on order number 83 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 83, from 126 in favour of 68, against 4. The motion was accepted. We will therefore continue the debate over the register of treaties. I ask if the factual remarks I have electronically apply, that is to say, Mr Liberty. It's not like that. Mr. Mr. Kováčik? It's not like that. In that case, priority rights of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u30	I really won't keep you long. I just think it would be worthwhile to have in the minutes of the Chamber of Deputies, which is archived, if I remember correctly, for 50 years, it was noted that the government despised the Chamber of Deputies, that ministers ignored her wishes, and that Members of the current government coalition would not like it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u31	Thank you. Before the debate continues, the President of the ČSSD Club Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u32	Thank you. I'm not in the habit of reconstructing conversations from this place that I'm conducting outside of official places. But today, both the TOP 09 and the ODS have agreed on this procedure, i.e. that at 12 o'clock we interrupt the point. If we do it the way we open it and interrupt it, or the way we just did it, that was no longer relevant, but that point is simply not to be discussed and we continue to discuss the register of contracts law. What my colleague Kalousek is doing here is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u33	Have a good noon. Thank you to the Chairman of the ČSSD Parliamentary Club. Now with priority rights, the President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u34	Sorry, it wasn't like that either, but I don't want to turn it into a potato to say what was or wasn't. But if the Chamber of Deputies agreed by a majority of its votes that Minister Němeček should be here at 12.00, then Minister Němeček would be here at 12.00, even if it were to be interrupted at 12.05. Just the way you are acting, fellow members of the government coalition's MPs, as you servilely treat the government, so you collect the authority of the Chamber of Deputies as the supreme sovereign who has legitimacy from the elections and transfers the legitimacy to the government. You pretend Mr. Andrej Babiš is right, who has never understood this system and who thinks that only the government has the legitimacy, he and you sometimes lend it to him. You're confusing the public in this way. Either it will cost you the seriousness of this institution to insist on that seriousness, or you will retreat from it, and then the Babiš will simply rule here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u35	I thank President Miroslav Kalousek and we will continue with the interrupted item number 18. With priority rights, Mr. President of the Dawn Dawn Club, Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u36	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask you a question through the President of the ČSSD. You said you had a deal with ODS and TOP 09, and I don't remember agreeing with you and me. [[It doesn't matter.]] It doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u37	Thank you to President Černoch, we will continue the interrupted general debate. Mr Jan Klán is another duly signed up for the suspended general debate, unless there is a priority right for anybody. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor to the contract register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u38	Thank you for the floor, nice noon. Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am finally glad that we are getting to the register of contracts after the show which is already taking place in the second term of the Chamber of Deputies, because -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u39	I am so sorry, Mr. Chairman. I understand that an unpleasant debate just moments ago has raised considerable feedback, but I ask my colleagues to transfer their debates to the galleys of the Chamber of Deputies and let you discuss the register of treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u40	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. So, like I said, second term. Now it finally gets its turn in second reading, after the first reading and in committees, when we even rejected it in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Under pressure The reconstruction of the state and others prepared a comprehensive amendment, which in some ways follows the Slovak model, and it has now come to the Chamber of Deputies. I will now make some fundamental comments, which we have on this as a KSČM parliamentary club, but of course also my comments and arguments, which I have prepared. [[The rubble in the hall lasts.]] I understand that the register of contracts should probably be needed and somehow reduce the level of corruption, but it seems to me that if it is implemented, it will mean a greater burden for small municipalities or even cities, or it will be a problem at the level of state firms. At the same time, I have one important point to point out that such an important proposal should have been a government proposal, not a proposal from Members. Here I will remember one episode, a service law, where it was also followed by this procedure, when there was no proper analysis of the impact of regulations, which even this bill does not have. At the same time, the proposal was to undergo proper external and internal reminder procedures. Instead, we are once again in a situation where a comprehensive amendment has been prepared for the parliamentary proposal and various seminars and séances have been held, as I have always said, but they can never properly replace those commentary procedures. Never. And instead, we've met many times here in the State Act and we've always dealt with these things, once and for--
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u41	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask President Kalousek and the circle around him to transfer his discussions to the galleys. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u42	And we also called Slovakia to see how they were doing and what problems they had there, so somehow we were a little in the picture. However, it now appears that the reconstruction of the state is, in my opinion, one great lobbyist. Really, and I'm saying this responsibly, because I've been accused many times for not wanting a contract register. But that's not true, I'm willing to sign up for him, but he has to be properly and well done. That is why I have tabled several amendments, which I will talk about, but at the same time I will talk about what is wrong with the proposal. So I will now convey some of the basic complaints that we have about the register of contracts. If the register of contracts also applies to small municipalities, in our opinion it will only lead to an increase in the burden on their management and, therefore, the rise in bureaucracy itself. Some mayors even oppose the introduction of a register of contracts. My colleague Zuzka Bebarová-Rujbrová will talk to this problem because she has one petition against the introduction of a register of contracts. Many mayors perceive the register of contracts as redundant because they publish a number of contracts themselves, as has already been said here, even the register exists in some way on the Ministry of the Interior portal, and in addition, when they award a contract, they have to publish it anyway. Moreover, a citizen of a given municipality, if he is interested in looking into the management of his municipality, can ask the competent municipal authority or also the council. Another big unknown is whether the law will apply to state companies. This has also been said in the mouth of Mr Urban. According to the latest information I know, the government has agreed that state and parastate firms will be granted an exception. If these companies were not removed from this law, it would, in our view, mean disclosure of their business secrets and the published data could exploit competition and that would mean the liquidation of these companies. It may then happen that by registering contracts we will knowingly or unconsciously eliminate state-owned enterprises such as ČEZ, Budvar, Forests of the Czech Republic and others. I find the fundamental problem in who will actually be the administrator of the register of contracts, as Mr Vondráček has already said here. Whether it's the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Regional Development. I heard you guys didn't make a deal at the coalition council or whatever you had. I am, of course, leaning a little bit towards the Ministry of the Interior, because it has some experience with the management of the basic registers and registers as a whole, but I must point out that if this happened, it would already be such a super-ministership, because the Minister of the Interior already has a service law under him, where he would have a register of contracts and many other things that fall under his agenda. So I'd leave it to the Ministry of Regional Development, because it was their idea after all. It was their idea to set up a contract register. It started with the former Member, Commissioner Jourová today, so let the Ministry of Regional Development have it. I'm definitely opposed to the Ministry of Finance being the administrator of the contract register. Like I said, it's either the Home Office or the Ministry of Regional Development. If this fundamental dispute is not resolved, I find the approval of the law irrelevant. There is an amendment tabled, where it is clearly proposed that one day it will be the Home Office, then that it will be the Ministry of Regional Development, so here we will decide by vote and see who it will actually be. At this point, I must say that the costs of operating this register will be quite enormous, according to the analysis that the Ministry of Interior has had drawn up. They're going to be moving from the order of tens of millions until there's a limit of 1.5 billion, which seems pretty monstrous to me. The reconstruction of the state or someone from the Reconstruction of the state wrote to me that he considered that amount to be the realm of dreams. There I kind of answered, who should I trust, whether the analyses he's having done to reconstruct the state, or the analysis he's had the Home Office do. So I'm more confident with the Home Office because it's all over the system, so it can do a lot better than anyone else who wants it externally. And we also have to ask ourselves whether the amount that is going to be there is going to be 1.5 billion, if it really leads to a reduction in corruption. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask you who of the citizens will be looking into the register. Because I asked a lot of people and said, "You're going to look at the contract register, you're going to wonder what it says, what kind of contracts are there?" Who's gonna flip on this, how many people? At first, someone will be interested, but by the end, no one will care. These people will be interested in whether the government works properly and efficiently. And that doesn't save the contract register as the only one. Of course, it's one option, but I'm asking how many people, who cares. In the end, I think it will only interest some of the con men at the end who will look into the contract register. [[12.20 hours]] Moreover, we are concerned that the data that will be publicly available in this register can be used to its advantage. A case from this January may serve as a deterrent, according to some Internet media fraudsters sent a letter to the Railway and Transport Infrastructure Administration about a change of bank account for payment of invoices written in excellent Czech and containing all the necessary elements including correct signatures, header and invoice numbers of the official supplier. After a superficial check, SŽDC subsequently sent tens of millions of crowns to a fake account, which went abroad. How to prevent the misuse of these data and not be deceived will, in our opinion, be a big problem with the register of contracts. The increase in cybercrimes, and we discussed this here yesterday in the population register, when a population register is being introduced, is quite significant. So how to treat this. As one of the last problems I also see in the fact that contracts that are currently in force, i.e. live, are to be published in the register of contracts. This, in my view, will result in most contracts having to be scanned and somehow converted into an adjustable format, such as the PDF type. This would mean additional costs for software and computing, and this would also lead to an increase in other expenditures at the level, for example, of small municipalities. Because the software for converting to PDF format is quite expensive and it is, for example, OCR software, and, in addition, if we were currently scanning and publishing those contracts, it would mean some retroactivity, and it is prohibited under our terms. So if such a contract had been published, he could have complained and threatened to sue, for example, the State or the State. to the administrator of the contract register itself. I will now ask the petitioner to listen to me, to discuss this debate club somewhere else, how many countries of the European Union have established a register of treaties. I would personally like to know how many countries in the European Union it is. I only know one, and that's Slovakia. But I wonder how many other countries have a register of contracts and how it works for them. Now, more precisely, what specific comments we have on the law itself. The first reminder concerns § 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (h) a sum of CZK 50 000 is How to identify the amount of a contract written in a foreign currency. According to which current rate or exchange rate from the time of conclusion of the contract, as will be done in this case. That's what I'd really like to know. The other point relates to Section 5. The requirement is not clearly identified and does not rely on the terminology of the applicable legislation of Act No. 499/2004 Coll., on Archiving and File Service, and Implementing Decree No. 259/2012 Coll., on the details of the performance of the file service. The decree defines in Section 23 the output data formats of documents in digital form, which must also comply with public contracts through the register of contracts. To impose any additional requirements on the originator beyond that legislation, which the originator is burdened with, would entail additional financial costs which would have to be incurred solely as a result of this legislation. Recognization of a text layer of documents or simple scans, validation and manual repair of a text layer compared to the original document and so on. Documents shall be kept in accordance with the file service methodology. We will still be moving in Section 5, where in paragraph 3, there is no indication of the identification of the public contract or, where appropriate, public financial support and disposals following § 8 para. 5, where is it said, if the contract is published in the register of contracts, then must it subsequently be published under the law on those contracts? Or what the exact interpretation is. Now let's ask another crucial question about the register of contracts. How to deal with a situation where a contract or metadata is accidentally published which is to be correctly determined in accordance with paragraph 1. 4 excluded from publication. The preservation of the original contract or metadata is very problematic in this case. I will now proceed to Section 7. What does repairing metadata mean? By posting or publishing and the original is terminated, or by making an update, by rewriting the original metadata? There is no solution to the case where a contract or metadata that are not to be published is published, which does not allow the law to correct the diction. Does it only allow unpublished metadata to be added or part of the contract? Why is not defined in § 8 as the next font. (i), the Public Procurement Act, and therefore what is the significance of paragraph 5 of this paragraph. And we're moving on. Finally, let us say two very important comments from the Union of Towns and Municipalities, with which I partly identify and surely you could all read them in your mailboxes. In Article 5 (1) (a) of the 4. The Association of Towns and Municipalities requires the extension of the exemption to the persons referred to in § 2 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v))) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))) (v)))) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v))))))))))))))))))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (b), (h) and (f) as also municipalities, local authorities or voluntary associations of municipalities can carry out activities on a highly competitive market, such as In Article 6 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 2. Considers it necessary to add an exception to situations where there will be no register of contracts, respectively. the infrastructure connected to it is functional, as it is in their view unacceptable that the effectiveness of the private contract depends on whether the publication takes place, on which the parties do not have a 100% effect. Experience from recent years has shown that the state is unable to guarantee 100% the functionality of its systems, which is a notorious vehicle register. I hope this contract register doesn't happen, but you never know. If the Ministry of the Interior or any other administrator of the contract register does not publish the contract or the late publication occurs, and the mandatory entity thus causes damage, will it enforce it on the State? That's what I'd like to know. Anyway, the compensation for this damage will go to public budgets. Thus, paradoxically, the damage was to be avoided by the adoption of this law. Another problem is that for many obliged entities, administratively, it will be very difficult to recover such damage. As is clear from these things, ladies and gentlemen, there are still many fundamental problems that need to be resolved. And I ask the petitioner why this didn't work out when a comprehensive amendment was being prepared. I understand that you were there representatives of the coalition, social democracy, the Yes movement, the People's Party, but I don't know why you didn't invite representatives of the opposition. Whether it is the left-wing opposition of KSČM or even the right-wing opposition. I don't know why you didn't invite these people. I didn't get an invitation to these meetings once. I would have told you these comments there and we didn't have to deal with it here at second reading. We've been waiting for that second reading for almost a year, or I don't know how long, but it's been a while. We could have solved all that in the negotiations, like in the Service Act, even though the Martyrium was quite long, so this could have been resolved too. But as I said in the beginning, I'm really interested in how many states have a functional contract register and how much experience they have with it. That's what I'd like to hear from Mr. Speaker. I'd still like to hear what if the contract was written in foreign currency. Because then it's easy. Everything will be written in foreign currency and we don't have to publish it. It'll be in dollars, euros - how am I supposed to understand that? I think the most ideal thing would be to bring back the committee for a renegotiation, but I'm not suggesting it. All I'm saying is that it would be the cleanest, and to meet with other opposition parties and their experts who have been dealing with the contract register for some time now. [[12.30 hours]] And I'm here now -- he's not here, the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, he's entertaining me with Vilém Čok. That Vilda Čok is looking at us. I was wondering if Vilém Chok would rather sing, maybe it would be better. When I remember when he and Jiří Korn were still singing a song about Karel carrying tea, they could still sing together, and I don't think Vilém Čok would have to speak to the Register of Contracts, and we could normally settle this here and talk like politicians without any pressure. And we could make different arguments here for and against. And as I say, the register of contracts in this form, as is now presented here, even the complex amendment, even the original one, even though it has some ten or twelve paragraphs, as the translator said, it still has a number of errors. And I just said the essentials here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u43	I thank Mr Klán. His speech has obviously raised Mr Vondráček's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u44	Thank you. I pressed it at the beginning of the speech. I'm pretty much over it before my colleague put it all together. Plus, I'll be brief. I don't think we're gonna agree here. I don't think we're gonna be able to figure this out. I just wanted to say that I'm sorry that my colleague Klán didn't update his speech a little bit after hearing the petitioners, the D.A.P.S. correspondents and me here, because then he would have to cross out about a third of what he said. Because, like we said, yes, it's gonna be inside. We just made a deal, it's gonna be the Homeland. The Ministry of Finance is not even in the amendments. I don't know how we'd do it right now. Yes, business secrets will be protected. There's the possibility of protecting business secrets. I am glad that my colleague is concerned about the fate of state enterprises, and so am I. We tried to write it so we wouldn't really spill the baby with the bathtub. I don't know how a colleague imagines, or that he's already heard that the government will take out state firms. And how would she do that if we passed the law? The law will apply to the government, too. There's no way in hell there's a government order to remove it. So I didn't understand. Then I didn't even understand that he thought no one was gonna look into it. I have a completely opposite experience with people, and I know human psychology quite well. People will be interested, and the self-control and the independent operation of the registry, I can guarantee you that. It's just gonna interest people, and everyone's gonna change their minds three times before they publish something that someone's gonna read after him. There are simply people who walk on city servers looking at what's shut down. And as for the publication of contracts on the Internet, the living ones, please, the Treasury just did it. They just posted it. And we haven't noticed any major problems. [[Attention on time.]] I guess that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. If I please you, even I, as the President, did not understand some things. But Mr Klán is reporting with a point of fact, and I am sure he will explain it to us now. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u46	I'm glad you didn't understand, Mr Vice-President. As for the one-third of what I said here. I also spoke to the original proposal. At the same time. Let's just get along. The original and the current. These two things. It's just to clarify. Next, how many people are gonna watch this register? I've got opposite messages from people that they're just not gonna care in any way about what contracts are gonna be there. They'll be wondering if the state administration will work effectively. Effective and proper. But I don't really think publishing contracts in that register will lead to a reduction in corruption. We know corruption is everywhere. The Service Act was intended to depoliticize government administration and prevent corruption, because the greatest corruption was on the central authorities of the state administration. And I think, which is my opinion, that so much money is not being lost at community level. And a register of contracts that I have from the mayors will be a burden to them. Because if we click again and Manfred... one writer or expert, he wrote a book called Digital Dementia. We're gonna click everywhere and post and click when we get our brains out? That's a question. Why are we gonna keep putting a lot of pressure on a community by publishing it over and over again? Or someone else's. But I say, it's your proposal, it's the MP's proposal, we're not signed there. So we're not even bound by any agreements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u47	I thank Mr Klán. Still nothing. Is Mr Chvojka reporting with priority rights or with a factual remark? [[He doesn't care.]] Well, that's important, with priority rights or... [[Ambassador Chvojka wants priority rights.]] So, with priority rights, you wait for the actual comment to be made... [[Fun in the hall.]] So, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u48	I've changed my mind, so it's not a priority right, it's a factual one. I would like to respond to Mr Klán, who I like, is a young active boy. And he's basically saying some of the things he's saying right here, but about a year and a half later than he should. Because my colleague Vondráček and I have already said the genesis here. The law passed at first reading I suspect sometime in winter 2013 or early 2014. Many of the things that my colleague Klán mentioned here were discussed at various meetings. Only in the House was I at about three or four seminars, which were open to the general public and, of course, for Members. I didn't see much of my colleague Klán there. And I'm surprised and surprised that all the important things that were being dealt with a year and a half ago, and a lot of them have been cleaned up, so the form or content that he's saying here isn't completely updated. It's just that he's dealing with it today. I think he's crying relatively well, but about a year and a half after the funeral. So, Mr Klán, through Mr President, it is just a bit passé now. In principle, the worst things have been resolved, some are simply the ones that cannot be solved, because they would lose the gros of the law, such as. the absolute invalidity that I consider to be a certain return before the new Civil Code, but the political agreement is clear. The biggest issues have been cleaned up, and I think criticizing something that was dealt with a year and a half ago is no longer worth it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u49	I thank Mr Chvojka. Another duly applied for is Mrs Zuzka Bebarová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u50	Hello, I didn't think it would come to me. I'll fit in, colleagues and colleagues, in two minutes. As on similar occasions, when the petition received by the House is related to one of the points under discussion, I would now like to inform you of the petition submitted by mayors and representatives in the number of 978, I suppose from your political parties, in which they say: "We ask that no legislation be adopted introducing the obligation of municipalities to register all contracts in the so-called the register of contracts. We fear that the introduction of this obligation will, above all, be so difficult for representatives of small municipalities that the very functioning of local self-government can be endangered in the extreme case. It is a sad fact of recent years that all municipalities are constantly increasing their responsibilities and the administrative burden is constantly increasing. We think that the level of this burden has long gone beyond bearable measure. We consider the existing legal possibilities to obtain information about contracts at least sufficient for municipalities. We do not think that the current adverse state of our society will resolve the constant acceptance of new obligations. The introduction of the obligation to publish each contract involves further problems and risks. The obligation to publish the text of the contract seems totally unacceptable to us as a condition for the validity of this legal act. We are afraid of problems that may arise when the text of the contract is published wrong or not at all. [[12.40 hours]] Problems arise mainly to small municipalities, which will carry out tasks associated with the publication of the contract at a large time interval. It is in these cases that mistakes can most often be expected. The mayor of a small village will always have to look again for a way to perform the operation correctly. Mistakes that arise in these non-routine activities can be expensively redeemed in the payment of damage caused by the mayor in the village. For these reasons, we require that legislation misleading the obligation of municipalities to register all contracts in the so-called "c. the register of contracts has not been accepted.'; Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u51	Thank you, Mrs Bebarová. Mr Radek Vondráček, after whom Mr Martin Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u52	I chose my colleague Chvojka, and then you erased me completely, just as I applied before. I would still respond to my colleague Klán. I'll stand up for him first, he was at those seminars, I saw him there. So he was there. The second thing is, of course, the time. I would be against myself as deputy mayor of Kroměříž, the city, we took that part of the law as it is, the whole text about the treaties and the city council's resolution, we imposed that it would be an obligation to publish these data. Our IT department said that the cost increase was zero, that they were ready for it, because they're already doing it anyway. That's a specific example from practice I can tell you about. And that these people are looking, that's just a fact. Normally, you don't look there, but they're just the type of people who look there regularly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u53	I thank Mr Vondráček for the example of good practice. Mr Martin Komárek, after whom Mr Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u54	Thank you for the floor. I'll take the liberty of responding to Mrs. Bebarová. I mean, not even directly to her, but to the petition she read. Of course, I was interested in whether the mayors of small municipalities would really burden it, because I am absolutely against bureaucratization. Among other things, I visited a beautiful village in the Liberec Region near Jablonec with the poetic name Radlo, which has about 900 inhabitants, which is a small village. I asked the mayor and the deputy mayor how many of these contracts they have over 50 grand a month. He said four, tops. Four, tops! At the same time, we all know that it takes about 10 minutes for a mayor who is more capable of IT. For someone who's I.T.'s clumsy, like me, half an hour, tops. So I don't think you can really talk about too much bureaucratization.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u55	I thank Mr Komárek for his confession. Another duly registered point of fact is Mr Jan Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u56	Thank you for the floor. I thank Mr Vondráček for defending me by your means. I was actually at those seminars, I wanted to say it before - the rapporteur here tells me I didn't say anything, I didn't say that, but I listened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u57	The rapporteur won't shout please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u58	So I can say it later here. One more detail. I was talking here about the original proposal we had on the committee. I also spoke to the comprehensive amendment. We must realise that if a comprehensive amendment is not approved on the basis, here, by the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, I am expressing myself on both of them. Let me get this straight. It's for both of them. So if a comprehensive amendment is not taken as the basis here at the House plenary, so that the whole thing changes, then I can comment on both of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u59	I ask the two of us to speak correctly in Czech. [[Fun in the hall.]] Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I think that this is bureaucratisation. This is because the subsidiarity principle is applied here. No one has explained to me today why, for example, those municipalities and municipalities are not obliged to publish on their official records. I would consider this precisely to be a correct, proportionate measure within the framework of the existing and declared principle of subsidiarity, which we share across the European Union. So if we're forcing these municipalities and if we're generally forcing the municipalities to do this in a central register, then I think it's wrong if there's an official record here, which is also closest to those citizens in the place where they live, and which they're also following for various other reasons, whether they're auction orders and a lot of other things where they'll ever be containers and stuff like that. So I would ask the petitioner to explain to me why there should be such centralisation in relation to the existing authorities and why the principle of subsidiarity is not being applied in the existing possibility of making such publication through the official records kept by individual bodies of self-government. I have yet to join the general debate, the debate, so, of course, I have other comments on the proposal and I will comment in detail on the general debate. For now, I would ask to answer this question to the petitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u61	I thank Mr Stupčuk. Now, please, Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u62	The answer is simple. The work would not have diminished for those who publish the information, but the effect of the publication would have decreased significantly. If data should be searched on 6 250 servers, it is of course much more complicated than searching on one server. So the answer is simple - work would not be less, but it would be useless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u63	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. After that, Mr Jan Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u64	From my point of view, I consider that an absurd argument. Because you don't want to tell me that the central registry is closer to the citizen than the official record in that particular community. After all, the point is that a citizen in a given village or region will be interested in contracts that the region is concluding, at least in the vast majority of cases. That's why I think the official record is logically closer, and I don't see any reason to centralize it. I just can't accept the argument unless you're able to verify it here in some credible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u65	Mr Jan Klán, now with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u66	I agree with the previous speaker, but I also want to ask the translator about the things I've been asking here. In how many countries is this register of contracts and it's functional. If you're answering a fellow speaker here, why didn't you answer me? I can understand that it will not be answered in the final words or at the end. But then it can be again in six months at this rate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u67	I thank Mr Klán. Another duly registered member is Mr Ivan Adamec. Apparently, he's very happy that he got into it. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I'd like to say hooray, I'm here, I'm afraid my colleagues are actually making me. But that's how it is. Of course, I wouldn't want to talk about what I said a year ago. I think that my position, although I like my colleague, former mayor Semily, personally, is diametrically different. I consider this bill to belong to a group of those laws which the House should not approve because they are redundant. But it's my opinion, I don't want to bring up any discussion here. But I have to respond here to something that's fallen. When Vice-President Filip says that this bill irritates this House, then my colleague Klán here will say that it is a show, then I am surprised to hear here that some lobbyists will attend a coalition meeting on the bill. [[With emphasis:]] We're here to deal publicly with lobbyists? We are legally inviting them to a meeting! Who's that - State reconstruction? I really don't know. I really don't know who that is. But I know who they are! Because I don't know about you guys, but before the election, I got a flyer to sign some material, or it's gonna make my constituents salty. Which they also did, because I never give in to blackmailers and should not give in to current coalitions! I don't think blackmailers just fall back, and blackmailers aren't being dealt with! And if you don't know that, then it looks like it. I think it's a useless law. And maybe I'll talk a little bit about something else. I'm sure you all remember when we passed the policy bill here years ago that they had to give their property confessions. It's okay. I think the public has a right to know. But what the consequences were! If you look at those insights on the register, you'll find that most ordinary citizens don't look there. And whoever's looking at it, they're journalists. I don't know how you look forward to July when it's called. Journalism cucumber season - I'll learn again what a criminal I am, where I work everywhere, what I get money for and what I bought or didn't buy. But do you know what the magical point of these matters is? That I don't remember an example of any politician, anyone, ever being convicted of what the police found in this registry, let alone being accused. [[12.50 hours]] What does this tell me about this law? Well, that law is completely redundant. And now we're making another law that I think is in the same principle. In order not to do so, since there is already an attempt to declare this bill, I believe that this honourable House should be able to control what it looks like on the register. And I will admit that I have given this much thought, and I have finally tabled an amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, under number 25, 26, which introduces that the registry administrator will submit an annual report to the House. I think it is necessary to find out whether the law is effective, whether something is really going on under this law, or whether it will serve just for someone to blackmail, publish and that sort of thing. I think we need to have that control. I think it takes a really annual report to get a check-up here one day. That doesn't burden us so much, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's really going to be an interesting reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u69	I thank Mr Adamc for his contribution. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr. Jan Zahradník, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to help Mr. Adamc with the answer to his question, which he has put forward here, what is this State reconstruction? I know Bold Bold is the main guarantor of State Reconstruction. The association Bold Bold is a mimikra, which is accepted by the former law firm Environmental legal service, which is a relatively infamous legal association that realizes and carries out quite good business based on various environmental problems that it first creates and then helps the poor affected to solve them. So reconstruction of the state, that's actually Bold Bold. And I regret all of you who have signed the state reconstruction challenge, because you shouldn't have done that, and it won't be worth it in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u71	I thank Mr Zahradník. Another duly registered member is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u72	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, fellow Members, unlike some previous speakers, I think that this law is necessary. I would like to amend it a little bit, and I have tabled an amendment to the comprehensive amendment under number 2352, which I have put into the system. Now, let me just briefly introduce you to what my amendments are all about. In my opinion, the register should contain the widest possible spectrum of persons, institutions and organisations. Therefore, the obligation to publish contracts should be applied to the widest possible number of entities. The purpose of the law is to ensure transparency of public expenditure, i.e. that the register of contracts should not only be designed extensively in relation to mandatory entities but also to the content folder. The aim is therefore to oblige obliged entities to publish as many contracts as possible if their publication is in accordance with other legislation and it is clearly not ineffective, e.g. having regard to the low level of contract performance. The amendment is also designed in such a way that it can be traced within the mandatory entity to a specific responsible person who is entrusted with the real performance of the publication of the contract in accordance with the Act on the Register of Contracts. This clear specification of the official or authority is intended to make it easier for the responsible person to be identified in the event of a penalty within the obliged entity. This is due in the event of a breach of the obligation of a debtor under this law. The register of contracts should be kept as a comprehensive system, which will also be structurally transparent, and individual contracts or their additions and annexes should always form one inseparable whole in order to always be able to trace the entire link to the contract document in question. Therefore, it is necessary to include in the law the irresistibility of certain parts of contracts also within the electronic register. This should also prevent the possible emergence of misinformation about the contract. In this context, a circle of persons covered by the exemption shall be specified in individual parts. Furthermore, I insert a provision aimed only at applying the derogation to contracts for which the total amount of performance is limited by the limit amount. At the same time, an exception should not apply to free transfers in particular of immovable property, which may have a high fair value despite formality. At the same time, § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) is deleted; The reason would be this: transparency should be achieved here when ordering works of art for compulsory subjects. This issue of the financing of works of art from public funds is generally in the interest of the public and should therefore be achieved as much transparency as possible in this area as possible. Consequently, the case under Article 5 (5) of the EC Treaty. 4. The persons referred to in Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Article 4 (1) (a) (e), (k), (l) or (m) shall be replaced by the following: "persons referred to in Section 2 (1) '. Article 4 (1) (a) (k) or (k) (m) '. Justification: It is not appropriate, in particular, for health insurance companies that manage a large number of public funds to be exempted as they generally do not develop business activities and therefore it is difficult to justify the exemption arising from business secrets. This is also the case with research institutions and universities. Then there is another amendment that concerns the correction of the register. In order to clarify the register, it should be clearly defined that both the corrections and the original texts should be inherently linked to one whole in the register. Then, in view of the fact that contracts of health insurance companies and health establishments are being considered to be published in the Public Health Act, I have another amendment which I would then also like to read in a detailed debate. If a contract to be published under the Public Health Insurance Act has been published in accordance with this Act, the obligation to publish it under the Public Health Insurance Act is fulfilled. This applies mutatis mutandis to data published as metadata under this Act. So this is just to explain the amendments that I am proposing on a comprehensive amendment to the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u73	I thank Mr Hovorka. With a factual remark, Mr Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u74	I don't feel like I'm stalling anymore, 'cause I don't think we can do it all. I'm just in response to the previous speaker. It was an effort for health insurance companies not to really fly a bathtub and a child, because in some marginal areas of the insurance company they manage with non-public funds and there are some contracts where business secrets can be considered, although generally they cannot be called according to the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. But we have made it clear with our colleague Hovorka that this is a matter that can be solved, that there is no risk here, and the ANO movement will probably support this amendment, so that health insurance companies will also publish all their contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u75	I thank Mr Vondráček for his point of view. I'll read it before I interrupt the lunch break, apologies. Today, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová apologizes from 18 o'clock to the end of today's day for work reasons. Mrs Radka Maxová apologizes from 18 o'clock for work reasons, Minister Marian Jurečka apologises after 18 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Josef VozdeckVozdecký apologises from 14.30 to 17 for work reasons, Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán apologises for this morning's meeting and for extraordinary meeting for working reasons, for the whole day and from 12.30 Mr Jiří Koskuba also apologizes. It's 12:59 p.m., it's almost 1:00 p.m., so if you agree to my procedure, I'll interrupt the House's meeting - it's 1:00 p.m. - until 2:30 p.m. when we continue with oral interpelations for the Prime Minister. Enjoy your lunch. I interrupt this item and the House meeting until 14.30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-029-03-002-018.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. I'll call the MPs from the lobby. [[Gong]] The next item is
