ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 27 and 28 I am waiting to see if the service will enter the minutes of the debate, but I think Mrs Chalánková was second in line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I wanted to ask the petitioners why we have to cancel something that's voluntary. That sounds like a real contradiction to me. When I listened to the petitioner, I didn't really know why we had to cancel this, why we're canceling pension reform, which is voluntary. We heard: because that's why. We expected with great interest the reform of the pension system by the Minister of Finance Babiš, who inspired the work of Professor Vostatek. We, who have been here for several years, have had the opportunity to familiarise ourselves with these proposals at the meetings of various pension subcommittees and commissions, and it was clear that this proposal by Professor Vostatek would not be so easy to bring into life. At least it was possible that the Minister had tried that work, even though it is not so simple and it is not so easy to push it politically. In the last parliamentary term, at least some pension reform has succeeded. It was indeed a political compromise. It is clear to everyone that it could have looked a lot different, but this really was a coalition compromise. It is clear that pension savings on the principle of delaying consumption in the second pillar would be ideal as mandatory; individual savings houses could be differentiated in different ways, but only as mandatory would this savings have an effect. I'm sure you do. On the other hand, it was at least an opportunity for young people to postpone consumption for a period when they retire, that is, for a period of one generation, up to a period of 20 years. And only then would the pension account be settled. That is true, but only in this way can we consider the pension system as such, always with a view of at least 20 years. This was also the case with the previous government, and this pension reform was approved in this way and was also part of the national reform programme submitted to the European Commission. The European Commission has taken note of it, has recommended further and further adjustments to pension systems, while pointing out that it is also necessary to monitor the merits aspect, which is above all this principle of delaying consumption and delaying the premiums for higher income groups, it is possible to ensure that the merits in their pension collection can be ensured in this way. So the European Commission certainly had no problem with this pension reform. Other adjustments were possible in this pension system, but, above all, this reform government managed to enforce at least something. And the fact that this pension reform was adopted as voluntary was essentially an indirect response to the demands of social democracy, which threatened, can be said to mean that if the reform government enforces this pension reform as mandatory, it will be abolished in the next parliamentary term if it reaches power. That is why hearing was also given to this, and this pension reform was accepted as voluntary. I just wanted to say that working on various adjustments to pension systems is not easy at all. It is necessary to pursue many goals with a 20-year perspective, to monitor merit and at least to pay attention to other influences on the first pension pillar, which is very unfair, has a large number of black passengers and is also relatively significantly anti-family. There are possible adjustments to which we could certainly hear and offer cooperation. But we absolutely do not understand and disagree with why to disturb something at least some reform and reform is voluntary. That is why I am making a motion to reject this press at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u3	Thank you. I just want to confirm that we are in a merged debate on paragraph 27 and paragraph 28. Mrs Chalánková, we are on two points, so if that is what you propose on both points? Both points, yes. Thank you. Now please, with the Prime Minister's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u4	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to remind you that the Parliament of the Czech Republic has already passed a law which envisages the conclusion of the so-called second pillar. That means a law has been passed, which is already a law that has passed all the levels of approval, and it is clear that it is no longer possible to report to the second pillar. So at this point, in my opinion, what is being presented and what the government is presenting is the only logical second step that must follow. Because to maintain a second pillar, which is no longer possible under the applicable law, in which there are only about 83 thousand participants at the moment, despite all the advertising campaigns that have been here in recent years and which encouraged people to report to the second pillar, it is not economically effective at all, in my view, and it is not effective for the operators or the state to have this appendix in the framework of the pension system. So the first step has been approved, which has already been approved by Parliament, which means the closure of the second pillar, and now logically on the table is the second step that must follow, which means the abolition of the second pillar. [[16.00 hours]] Secondly, I would like to remind you that we are not living here in a vacuum, we have already discussed the examples here at the last point. I agree that sometimes it is necessary to look beyond the borders, to see what is happening in other countries of Europe. And it is also true that, in the 1990s, there was a very fashionable recommendation from the International Monetary Fund and also from the World Bank, which has recommended that many countries privatise the pension system in part, establish a new pillar to which they will contribute from the state system and there will be individual contributions from participants. Thus, on the basis of these recommendations, Hungary implemented a pension reform, which was similarly carried out by Slovakia, as well as by Poland. This has never happened in the Czech Republic until this second pillar has been approved, which we should now cancel. For many years, the Czech Republic resisted these attempts to privatise the pension system in part, and in the final it turned out that it was good that we did not join Poland, Hungary and Slovakia at the time when the second pillar was being implemented. How did it turn out? And I must say that there is a lot of talk here about the impact of social democracy on the abolition of the second pillar in the Czech Republic, but I must say, honourable Members, that even if we wanted to be Czech social democracy, we could never influence the Hungarian Government's decision to effectively abolish the second pillar in Hungary. Even if we wanted to, we could not influence the decision of the Polish Government, which nationalized the vast majority of the resources that people had saved in the second pillar, and we certainly could not influence the positions of the Slovak Government, which decided to significantly limit the state contributions to the second pillar. Independent of us in Hungary, Poland, and in part also in Slovakia, they have come to the conclusion that they have taken a risky path for public budgets and, in the situation in which the pension systems of these three countries have entered, they have decided to cancel either the second pillar in fact or to reduce it significantly. So what is happening now in the Czech Republic is not an isolated phenomenon, it is simply part of a wider response and it is also part of a broader consensus that was created in the region of Central Europe and which clearly shows that not only the government of the Czech Republic, the current government of the Czech Republic, but also governments in Hungary, Poland and Slovakia do not regard partial privatisation of the pension system as a promising path. So if we are to discuss this proposal of the Czech Government today, I would like to ask all opponents to deal with the simple fact of nationalising the second pillar in Poland. And no left-wing government did that, that was a liberal government. Abolishing the second pillar in Hungary, nor did the Socialists do it there. The right-wing government did it, actually canceled the second pillar. And in Slovakia, you are right, it was a socially democratic government that had to limit state contributions to the second pillar because it was ruining the Slovak state budget. I believe that if we are to act rationally, it is not possible to react differently than after we have decided to close the second pillar for new participants, so now it is necessary to cancel it as soon as possible. I am pleased that the proposal contains a number of alternatives for participants in the second pillar to how to act. I want to support this proposal clearly, and I think it clearly guarantees what we said at the beginning as a government that no one will lose money. Just the participants who signed up for the second pillar will not lose their financial resources. And a final remark in this performance of mine. There was no consensus around the second pillar. I want to be clear that there were some agreements here. They weren't. Social democracy has always made it clear that it does not want the second pillar. And there was no compromise. Perhaps, within the coalition of the government, MEPs then agreed that it would be in some form, but the opposition did not enter into it at the time. And it was not only social democracy, but also other political parties that criticized the emergence of the second pillar. And there was no union agreement, there was no agreement with employers, there was no clear agreement within the tripartite framework, and by the time the second pillar was launched, many financial institutions were very careful. This is also why very few funds were created, a limited number were created, and it turned out to be a wrong system because only a few tens of thousands of people signed up to it at a time when the government strongly supported it, and in the end the number ended only slightly above 80,000 participants in this second pillar. So it wasn't an agreement, it wasn't a consensus, it was adopted very closely here. The government just overruled the opposition. There was no tripartite agreement, social partners were very critical about it, about this change in the pension system, and in my opinion this is the only possible step after we closed the system, so also cancel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u5	I thank and record here two factual points. Mrs Langšádlová comes with the first, and then Mr Beznoska will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister. You were talking about logical procedure. The logical procedure would be to present an alternative today. All of us here know that our pension system is demographicly unsustainable. Your proposal is not only illogical, but above all irresponsible. Suggesting the abolition of the second pillar without coming up with the alternative that we would be talking about today is simply illogical and irresponsible. Irresponsible especially to the youngest generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u7	Thank you and I will ask Mr Beznoska to prepare Mr Sklenák. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, I very briefly, because I am registered, I will respond to the Prime Minister's words. We are inspired in Croatia. Today, there are words here about the inspiration of situations in Poland, Hungary and Slovakia. I want to remind you that the three-pillar system, simply a pension system with a model, where part of consumption is postponed for the future and people save funds, is a very common system in developed Western European countries. Too škoda the Prime Minister doesn't inspire anywhere else. I understand that the second pillar is canceled, let's talk about what to do next, but these arguments, so clearly and unilaterally, are simply not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u9	Thank you, and I will ask Mr. Sklenák in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u10	Thank you. I volunteered in response to Mrs Langšádlová, who is calling for an alternative to the second pillar. I think that practice has clearly shown what we have pointed out that the establishment of the second pillar is a blind path, and so if we want to propose an alternative, then we must suggest another blind path, and we certainly do not want that. The fact that there is a minimum of participants in the second pillar is not due to the fact that social democracy has announced how it will proceed if it has government responsibility. The minimum of participants is there because we have another product, and that is the third pillar, and that is 4.5 million, I think, citizens of this country, almost all economically active. So, of course, people are responsible, and in addition to the mandatory ongoing pillar, almost everyone is trying to secure themselves by volunteering for old age, but the problem with the third pillar is that the monthly deposits are very low in the long term. This simply indicates that people do not have the means to save as much as they would need to save for old age. And if you came up with another pillar, then people just weren't interested in it anymore. All we have to do is really carry on with what has already been approved. This means that new participants have been prevented from entering the second pillar, now the second pillar is needed to end these laws and concentrate on this compulsory and voluntary savings on pension.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u11	Thank you, and now, with Mr Laudát in fact, Mrs Langšádlová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u12	Thank you for the floor. Don't be mad at me, but if you're gonna be showing off this lying festival that's taking place here... There was such a thing as Bezděkův's commission. First, you nodded to the need for a second pillar, that there was a need for a pension reform, and you turned around in the following period when it came to breaking bread. You promised that you just didn't have a problem with budgetary responsibility. And what did you make of it today? Caricature. You guys are just lying to people through a microphone in the House. So try to put in the register voluntarily, we'll campaign to cancel them if the voters ever give us... And let's see how many of those anti-campaigns, the threats you guys made, the result was 85 or how many thousands of people signed up for it. [[16.10 hours]] You guys canceled with Karta and see what you've invented since then. I asked you here to come up with an alternative, so come back at once! We may survive the cancelled with Karta, but we won't survive the fact that in a few years there won't be anything to finance the pension from. You guys are literally crazy, what you're doing here! And please stop lying that no one talked to you, that you didn't act and that it wasn't like that! After all, you know that it was the way they treated you, and because of you and the unions, voluntary entry was made, not mandatory. And then your MP will say that it was a mistake, that it should at least have been mandatory? And don't manipulate public opinion by saying there's nothing in Slovakia. They set it up so high, and they downloaded it once, and they were still above the Czech standard. So please stop lying here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u13	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Beznoska will prepare himself with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u14	I just wanted to respond, through Madam President, to Mr Sklenák. So you're not gonna come up with an alternative that solves the entire pension system? Why don't you come with her at the moment? It is not possible to interrupt anything without submitting an alternative that will ensure sustainability in the long term. That's what I said. And you today do not allow discussion of the alternative behind which this government, including numbers, models, would stand, so that even for future generations here, the pension system is sustainable. The point is, you're not coming up with an alternative right now, and you're only suggesting that you cancel the second pillar. The pension system cannot be viewed from the point of view of the first, second, third pillars, but it is really a very complicated mechanism from which it is not possible to extract only individual components. Thank you. . [[Applause from the right side of the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u15	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this has only one solution. It is economic prosperity, standard growth, high birth rate and clear perspective of the Czech man. You can't solve pension reform here in any form of reform. This is what experts around the world have tried, you can read a large number of studies and experiments that have sometimes worked in some way, today works in some way Switzerland, I think we once talked about it, but those people voluntarily pay up to one third of their wages to the pension system and the state guarantees them a lot of things. When we have such a level, such a high added value of work, such a birth rate and so low unemployment, then the system is sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u17	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Laudát in fact, Mr Votava will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u18	Thank you. A fellow speaker just doesn't know one thing. We're not quite the belly of the economy yet, but I suppose everyone has an ambition to get there. And if we get there, our republic, into a globalized advanced postmodern economy, that's the first characteristic: growth is two percent tops. And you're in exactly the same situation that you want to talk to the public like the Francouz: We're the immigrants, the camps there, and we're gonna solve everything, we're gonna figure out the ghetto, maybe someday the growth, the six percent, we're gonna hear it with our own ears, we're gonna come back. They're just Teschen apples. You can't gamble like that with some unsubstantiated promises. So read something about the global economy, how it behaves, how advanced economies behave. This is truly misleading. We're never gonna grow by six percent again, and if we grow, it's just a sign that we're not an advanced economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u19	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Votava in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, it has been said several times that this pillar was voluntary and that it allowed voluntary entry. Well, you entered once, the 80,000 people, but there's no turning back, so no volunteering. Voluntary maybe at that moment. The 80,000 people entered, yes, maybe with that knowledge, maybe some didn't realize they weren't gonna be able to get out, the other xes just didn't volunteer, because I guess people aren't stupid, and they figured out what the pillar could bring them, and they figured it was only convenient for someone. For someone who has higher, high earnings, and not for people who should probably enter. And, of course, if it's not guaranteed by the state, then maybe this guy doesn't have to meet the money at the end of 30 years. That's what I think a lot of people have realized. So that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u21	Thank you, and now please, with the de facto Mr Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly to the volunteering. Perhaps it was, and it seems to me, the only fundamental mistake of the big pension reform that entered the second pillar was not mandatory. Maybe we wouldn't even be having this debate today, and pension reform wouldn't be the subject of a political struggle, because the 84,000 people are the result of a political struggle. There are about four basic mechanisms in the world, as pension systems are being addressed, one was mentioned by the Minister of Finance Babiš, who indicated it. All four must be dealt with, and hopefully we will finally find a consensus in this House, and not for it to become such an impenetrable political struggle, as the second pillar has become, and the second pillar is not a victim of anything other than politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u23	Thank you and I now have two priority rights here, namely the rapporteur, whether he still insists or has exhausted his contribution in fact, and then the Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to ask in this form for a reduction of the time to discuss both prints to 50 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u25	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u26	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to strongly turn against the fact that there have been accusations of lies. I have described the situation that has happened here in the surrounding countries, and I would ask that Members of the right here make it clear that this is not true. To make it clear that the second pillar is developing successfully in Hungary and that the government has not intervened in any way. That the same thing happened in Poland and Slovakia. Then say it here and prove it. You know very well that this is not true, that this trend has simply failed in the centre of Europe, and in a situation where individual governments, whether Hungarian, Slovak, or Polish, got into budgetary trouble, so the first one to fall for the victim was the second pillar. The second pillar, which has been issued here in the Czech Republic for something that is absolutely certain, reliable, where people save money. Who could believe that if you just watch Polish TV and the debate that was being conducted around it? It's just this is a different situation, this is really a different situation, and it certainly has nothing to do with the sustainability or unsustainableness of our pension system. After all, no one can seriously think that the second pillar, where 83,000 people have joined, can in any way have a statistically impact on the sustainability of the Czech pension system. Moreover, and the analyses that have been made public show that the second pillar has been applied in particular to people who have sufficient funds, and they obviously have a whole range of other investment options to assess how to postpone their consumption on a voluntary basis, and, after all, they can also evaluate it in a way that no bank and no fund will collect account management fees under the second pension pillar. Just for these people, who belong to more mobile fellow citizens, there are a number of ways to invest money. Among other things, there is, of course, a third pillar, which is one of the successful pension projects in which the vast majority of citizens of the Czech Republic participate today. [[16.20 hours]] I would also like to remind you that very often it was argued here that in Western Europe today people receive a pension largely from supplementary pension insurance, while in our country pensioners are mainly dependent on income from the state pension system. But if you look at the structure of the pension funds that worked in Western Europe and from which pensioners in Germany or Holland today, or perhaps in Britain, draw, then many of these pension funds were built on a system of corporate collective savings. It was built on corporate pension plans, in which trade unions participated, in which employers were actually created within individual companies on the basis of collective bargaining, and that was completely different from what the previous government approved here under the so-called second pillar. Moreover, these systems have been developing in Western Europe for decades, decades invested there. And one final point. Please see, and these are sad numbers for the Czech Republic, how our economic growth has been compared over the last ten years with the comparison of economic growth in other countries in the middle and east of Europe. It turns out that our country grew very little compared to other countries on average. And I think that one way, of course, to strengthen public budgets is also faster and more robust multi-annual economic growth than what we have done in recent years, to strengthen employment. Because at a time when you have high unemployment, as we have experienced in recent years, when there have been over 600,000 people without work, these people, of course, do not contribute to the pension system and it deepens the pension system deficit. Unfortunately, our country has squandered the possibilities of faster economic growth, we have not devoted ourselves to removing barriers for this faster economic growth, and this is one way to reduce the deficit in the basic solidarity ongoing pension system. It is certainly possible to have a debate on what to do with the third pillar, and it is certainly possible to have a debate on how to strengthen employers' motivation to contribute more to their employees in the current third pillar so that people can save more average amounts there. And you can hardly force someone to make more savings when there's no more money left in the monthly budget if they just have nothing to save. That's why so few people signed up for the second pillar. Not only did people not believe him, but they have no money to spare, which they could currently postpone in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u27	Thank you. I just want to ask the rapporteur's report to see if the reduced deadline for 50 days is valid for both prints. That's right, great. Now I beg you, Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Laudát will be prepared, then Mrs Adamová, Mr Beznoska and then Mrs Chalánková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u28	I was gonna ask. Yes, you're presenting a cancellation of the second pillar. Yes, you are not simultaneously translating a proposal on how you will address the long-term sustainability of our pension system. So please, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, at least give us an indication of the sustainability of our pension system. Will it be higher contributions for employees, employers, businessmen, as it sometimes leaks into the media? Will this be dealt with by migration, as the Social Democrats have ever talked about when pension reform was discussed? Or will it be the minimum equal pension, as Vice Prime Minister Babiš spoke of in one meeting, about CZK 8,000? Which way do you want to go? The condition is unsustainable. We have a longer life span, which is good. Sadly, like most developed countries, we have few children, which is, of course, wrong, but unfortunately, there is an indirect dimension - the richer the country, the fewer children. In Germany, they have children even less. Which way do you want to go? Give us a hint. What is the sustainability of the system? When you propose to cancel this, what do you suggest then? What comes and what do you prepare when it is no longer discussed at the same time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u29	Thank you. And now, with the de facto Mr Laudát. Mrs Adamová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u30	Thank you for the floor. I want to go to the Prime Minister. Your representatives at Bezděkův's commission and then for at least three years, I was there as opposed to the era of Bezděkův's commission, they claimed that they had no problem with the second pillar, that we would only argue about setting parameters. Then we tried to accommodate you where we could. So you're not telling the truth. As far as Hungary is concerned, if we want to follow by sending citizens to speculate on the Swiss franc course, and then we start picking it out from neighbouring countries through the bank's daughters, thank you very much. And Slovakia still has a fairly valuable pillar. They really burned it with parameter settings, so they're gonna do corrections. But you're totally interrupting something here without even being able to say five principles, which means your idea of pensions will follow. All I'm hearing here is this ex-Comrade, he's still interviewing and running an idea exchange, and that's it. The last thing I did was cancel the third pillar or what I heard. But it's not about the Ideas Exchange. And that the Polák did it? I guess there were other reasons for that. But I don't know exactly how it turned out there, but there is no second pillar cancelled in Slovakia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u31	Thank you. Now, please, to Mrs Adamová's microphone, Mr Beznoska, Mrs Chalánková, then Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek and Deputy Prime Minister Babiš will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u32	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. So I can't do that, even though I'm logged in, to comment on what the Prime Minister has said to us. This government has been here for over a year and a half and has not yet been able to present its own image. It's been said by many of my previous speakers. However, if we're still hearing the number of 85,000 fencers participating in the second pillar, I'd pull another number, and that's 44 billion debt in a retirement account. Come and tell us how you want to handle this. This is not about discussing how the system worked in Hungary and so on, but let's talk about how we're going to finance our system here in the long term. What are we going to fund it from? We already have tens of billions of debt in there today. I want to hear the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u33	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr. Beznoska's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u34	Thank you. One last time on this subject. A very brief comment on the Prime Minister's words, which argued here with economic growth in other countries of the former Eastern bloc. Of course, there is always a need to choose what has a higher priority. You should have mentioned in point B, Prime Minister, that the Czech Republic has again dealt very well with the debt trap in the past period as regards the unemployed. Maybe it'll come back to us in more robust economic growth now. It's none of your business. And as for the debate, whether or not there was such a large pension reform in establishing the second pillar. The second Bezděkův Commission was established on the basis of recommendations from the World Bank, the National Economic Council of the Government and there were certainly people very close mentally to social democracy. So it's not, and it wasn't a close debate. It was a broad consensus, unfortunately the second pillar fell on the altar of politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u35	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Chalánková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u36	Thank you. Just a few more notes. I'm certainly not saying that the second pillar was a panacea, but it was at least something. A few technical notes. The pension systems in our country until 1951 were of a fund-based nature, i.e. people saved up on their own accounts, into funds, and eventually employers contributed to them. In 1951, all these funds were nationalised and pensions became funded from an ongoing system. The consequences are today, because the ongoing pillar, the first pillar, is significantly anti-family and has a lot of black passengers, so I point out that. And I think that as an opposition, we could be able to negotiate about this and with the coalition. We approved employee pension savings as the last government. At the same time, we also had to respond to the principle of merit, which the Constitutional Court pointed out, and we had to respond to this principle in the context of a small pension reform, to bring about a small pension reform, and at the same time this principle of merit also appears in the second pillar. As far as Hungary is concerned, Slovakia, which still has a second pillar in some way, is clear that if employees make compulsory contributions to social and pension insurance, then if the state does not see and does not want to see and does not want to allow their people to postpone consumption for years and wants to withdraw the money, it will simply do so, because people are taking the money anyway, it means that it is an option and is the will of statesmen if they give their citizens this opportunity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u37	Thank you. Now please, with the de facto Vice-President of the Government, Mr Bělobrádek, the Minister of Finance Babiš will prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u38	Madam President, colleagues, I understand that the Nečasův government has taken a rather bold step and tried to resolve the situation. On the other hand, it is true that the second pension pillar was actually advantageous for the middle- and higher-income categories of citizens because they had the opportunity to put their money aside. In this case, I think it was enough to reform the third pillar in some way. Otherwise, to those things or at least those principles that we bring to Potůčko's commission, because yes, it is true that the birth rate is even worse in Germany, but there are countries where the birth rate is, even if communities with a larger birth rate filter from it, for example, the communities that have a larger birth rate, are those that are approaching two or more children per fertile woman. Anyway, I think it's really a question of setting social conditions, even the conditions for combining work and motherhood for women, it's a question of setting up a whole family life. This means that the cause is really a lack of children, which will then, as workers, pay their income. That's one thing. The second thing is, no doubt, that everything began in the 1990s, when the pension system did not separate, which was a big mistake, and the return from privatisation should also have been set aside. That's one thing. The contributions in previous years to the pension scheme have also been reduced. And the third thing that is, certainly, the merit that is given by what our contributions are, should also be supplemented by how we participate in bringing other payers into the system. In this sense, I believe we have far more negative examples for the second pillar. We could start in Chile, where it was introduced. On the other hand, there has also been some uncertainty in recent years about investing in the very funds. That means there's not much certainty. I think there are many possibilities. [[Attention on time.]] From the joint social insurance of spouses, to really pro-family measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u39	Thank you. I'll ask for a microphone with a de facto remark from the Minister of Finance. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I said a very simple thing here that either we have money for those pensions or we won't. Everyone laughed, they can laugh again. And then I got interested. I got a study done on Vostatek. And what happened? Well, immediately the opposition took out some demagogical assumption that I wanted to cut pensions and all that nonsense. Then another coalition partner told me it wasn't my business. So I let it go. Where do we get the money? Last year we had a minus 40, and this year we're going to be a little less, and next year we're going to be 36. Why? Because social security benefits are increasing. So this year alone, it's going to be more than 46 billion. And where are we gonna get them? There'll be an electronic sales log on Friday. [[Fun in the hall.]] Laugh. We should be collecting 12 billion in restaurant services. We're picking 1.6. Twelve minus 1.6 is what? Ten. So we're almost a third. Try to support electronic sales log. And then new measures for carousel fraud. You can laugh again. So that's where the money is. Either there's money or there's no money. You've been talking about pension reform for 20 years. Then why didn't you solve it? Then you should have solved it. You mít a komise. It's like takový, poppy. So for now, it's just that there's either going to be money or there's not. And we're doing everything we can to make them, and it's going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u41	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I'd like to see Mrs Adamová's mike with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u42	Thank you. I don't think I'd get my turn with my contribution, so I'm going to make a statement in fact. By the way, the minister also recorded to me because I was going to quote him himself from 8. 4th here in the House. I quote: "I was asked to make a suggestion. I'm here to announce that I'm going to propose a pension reform. I'm gonna suggest it to the coalition partners first. It is not true, and I fundamentally reject that I want to reduce pensions." I'm gonna skip a bit, that's not the point. "You haven't seen the proposal. I'll bring him in by the end of June, and let's talk about that. Well, then. I'm going to propose a reform that you haven't solved in 20 years." Minister, then you're 30. 6. in the media has already admitted that this is really beyond your reach, or you do not feel that you will not submit the proposal. However, we still don't get the crucial answer here. Because what you just said here, where we're gonna get the money, it's really not gonna be sustainable for those generations that this pension reform should work for. So what I'm asking is, you were just talking again? In the House, in April, here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u43	With a factual remark, please refer to Mr Petr Fiala's microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add other figures to the figures presented by the Minister of Finance. It is not only the deficit that is rising every year, or it may fall a little bit, but it has certainly never fallen below CZK 30 billion since 2010. But, of course, there are other numbers. More and more people are going into early retirement. While it was 147,000 in 2000, last year it was 477,000. That's a triple. There's an increase in the population of old-age pensioners, and I think you all know that. In 2000, the State paid about 1.9 million old-age pensions, in 2014 2,355,000. And, of course, the population of over 65 years of age is also growing. In 2000 it accounted for 14 percent, in 2025 it will be 21.7 percent, and in 2065 it will be 32 percent of the population when the generation of today's high school students retires. This means, simply put and in simple numbers, that while we have 26 pensioners per hundred productive people today, in 50 years their number will triple and we will have 58 pensioners per hundred productive people. So there won't be any increase in income to the ongoing pillar here, which, of course, is commendable, but common sense tells us that the role of self-insurance on the pension will increase purely for the sake of demography. And I would hate to put myself in a position to pay for the old Comteův theorem: Demography is our destiny. We can do something about this fate. We should have done it. We have tried to do so with the second pension pillar that the government is shutting down without having to deal with the numbers and the demographic tendencies that I was talking about. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u45	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Laudát's de facto opinion. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u46	Thank you. Mr. Finance Minister, you can't wash your hands because pensions are about money, especially money. And just say, "Nothing, then, because the coalition partners didn't say it wasn't my business... This is your business first, because, of course, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will do populist politics and impose, because she pursues goals other than yours, and that means making a sustainable state register, so you can't wash your hands. I would still understand if you had taken a fair step, because VAT has increased precisely to cover the costs of pension reform and to cover the ongoing deficit, that is the 45 or what is now over 30, because it is increasing now at the time of the boom of employment. But when the wave comes back, it'll be the 40, 50, maybe 60 again. And all of a sudden, we get into the fact that there's nothing left to take from, or we're going to be even more tax-intensive, we're going to become tax-uncompetitive. That means you shouldn't wash your hands. On the contrary, you should say to the Minister of Labour and especially economic Titanic Sobotek: "There is no way out, and I am responsible not for the interim cashier, but for a long-term sustainable state cash register. And you don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u47	Thank you. I am now registering two priority rights here, namely the Vice-President of the Government of Bělobrádek, if he still insists. It doesn't. Excellent. Then I'll ask the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u48	Thank you for the floor, I think I'll be a little longer than two minutes. With the numbers. When we introduced the second pillar, we raised VAT rates in parallel to that. Today, the government is shutting down the second pillar, but it leaves VAT rates at the same level. At the same time, very often government politicians led by the Finance Minister criticize us for raising the VAT, and I have to admit that partly rightly. Because the estimates of the first pillar's failure were much bigger than the reality. So let's call it a number. In 2012, the state budget collected approximately 200 billion from VAT. Following an increase in VAT rates in 2013 220 and 2014 230. [[billion.]] [[billion]] In these two years the state, and now we're just talking about the state share, not talking about the share of cities, municipalities and regions, we all know that it's a shared tax, so we're talking about about 79 percent of the VAT that ends up in the state budget, plus 50 billion. And I think the government's marking the 85,000. The participants of the second pillar - and I report here from the microphone as well as when discussing the Act of Ending Entry into the Second Pillar, that I am a participant in the second pillar, I say this very clearly because I considered it an appropriate tool to secure myself in retirement - so the government claims in its material, and I have no reason not to believe that in those two years it has been 1.1 billion from the first pillar. Crowns. Fifty plus, 1.1 billion. minus. If I leave that tenth, the state budget made 49 billion on it. We have repeatedly admitted that the estimate of the blackout was too large. We have repeatedly proposed a reduction in VAT rates. And behold, the critics of this increase are not in favour of reducing VAT. We will repeat that VAT is being opened by the government twice or three times a year, so we will keep trying and we will say: So the government blames those 85,000 responsible citizens and takes away their voluntary decision on how to save on their pension. And it supports economic reasons. 1.1 billion. plus VAT, which everyone pays, plus 50 billion. Plus 49, to be exact. This clearly shows that the cancelled second pillar is not economical, but ideological. The Social Democrats just decided years ago that it was wrong, they're doing everything they can to cancel, they have every right to do so, it's their political agenda. But the numbers are convicting them that it doesn't have an economic basis. By the way, for the two years of 2013, 2014, how much do you think was paid in retirement insurance? It was a total of 673 billion. And the blackout from the first pillar was 1.1 billion. I threw it in the calculator, I'm not gonna pretend I'm counting it out of my head - it's 16 per cent! My honored colleague, Mr Zavadil, is sitting here, who was shouting at the time, I apologize, at demonstrations: 20 billion a year there will be a blackout! We must prevent the creation of the second pillar. Twenty billion a year! 550 miles. per year, if the government in its material says that in two years 1.1 billion. Sixteen million payments to the first pillar. Sixteen o'clock. But for VAT plus 50 billion. respectively. 49 in two years, and this year it's gonna be even more. And the government wants another every year. I'm back to having the plus 30, 40 a year. Because she can use the money. Here, if we just leave the money from the increased income to the pension deficit, we're almost done with it, in the ongoing system. Fifty billion in two years, higher VAT collection. The Minister of Finance is right that because there is higher employment or lower unemployment and there are higher incomes, this year there is more pension insurance. In the first six months, it was almost 10 billion, that's plus 5.5 percent. I think that's a good number. We should all be happy. Too bad other taxes don't make the increase exactly the same. For example, taxes on dependent activities. Surprisingly, social insurance and pension payments are growing, as are health insurance payments, and income from dependent activities is not growing, and I don't know why. I'd like to hear why this percentage isn't the same or very similar. It just isn't. So the idea that the 85,000 people, that we're gonna take away the possibility of them saving up, that they're gonna figure something out in that retirement system -- it's not true. Whatever the Prime Minister says, it is an ideological attitude, not an economic or professional view of pension reform. And do you know why the middle-income and the higher-income save or why they used the second pillar? I don't think it's the primary reason they were adding their own money. Because the system is so little merit. Who knows how the four bands are calculated and how the retirement pension is determined, so clearly it comes down to the fact that for those who today have average or below-average salaries, they do not know the transition to retirement in principle to income. It's a big blow to medium-income. From day to day, the income is much lower. And these people logically chose one of the tools. I'm sure the Prime Minister is right that there are other possible investment instruments to invest. But, again, the middle-income guys aren't the ones who are gonna buy shares and speculate and play on stock markets. We're not talking really. These aren't people who have million or ten million savings. Then we have a completely different idea of who the middle class is and what income the middle class has in the Czech Republic. So I really don't understand why you chose those 85,000 people, why you're saying that they're hurting the ongoing system, and why you won't let them have the opportunity. You can't find economic justification in those numbers. And they're your numbers from your materials. I drew tax records from regular monthly reports that are on the Ministry of Finance's website. I drew that amount on the second pillar from the explanatory memorandum to this bill. At the very least, I'd expect to get some information on who's actually a participant in the second pillar. Like the age structure. If it's the 30s, the 40s, the 50s - none of it's there! This is just what the government did. There's no need to justify it properly, social democracy doesn't want it and it's done. That's why we wrote it in the coalition contract and that's it! If I recall the election debates, for example, the ANO movement did not say before the elections that it wanted to cancel the second pillar. I don't remember, I don't think so. To make excuses for being in a coalition contract or a government statement. But you signed it. Voluntarily. Well, I don't quite understand. Instead of talking about parameters, it's possible to make it more attractive. Or leave it the way it is, and it'll just be for 90,000 people. Maybe a year for $100,000. If anyone is arguing that it took decades in Germany, for example, but they've also started! They also had their first year, their second year, their third year. And it was not so that, at the moment the government approved it, or the House approved it, the strongest opposition party at the time - we will immediately cancel it. So if you'd given up on it for decades, and then it turns out the tool isn't effective, maybe. You didn't even give it a chance. You don't know how to justify it economically. It's not there, I say, or the structure of those who actually pay for it. We don't even know if they're high-income or medium-income. That's the information the state's got! Every employer does it for the employee who pays for it. Every month. And he's sending a report. Again, it's an example that the state has gigabytes of data nowadays, only it can't work with them. Once again, ministers come and want new data and new information. And it doesn't matter if it's cash registers, travel agents, insurance companies, reinsurance companies, and now I could name them. This government coalition is obsessed with data acquisition, yet it can't use the existing ones. So if the rejection does not pass, as I assume it will not pass, then I would ask that I do not have to do it through interpellation, so that either the finance ministers or the Labour and Social Affairs Minister give us information on the age or income structure of the participants in the second pillar. So we know who actually signed up and who we're taking that option from. And these people are asking, " Why are you taking that opportunity away from us? Is 16 million a year really such a big deal that you can take that opportunity away from us? I don't think the idea of these people transferring it to the third pillar is real. Now I don't want to, we'll save that for committees, debate, why wait nine months, and whether or not the money's gonna be remunerated or not. These are technical things that we can discuss in detail in committees. [[16.50 hours]] But the basic, the political justification why you're taking it away from these people didn't come up here. In addition to the fact that social democracy considers - and also KSČM, to be fair - that the second pillar is simply wrong. Sixteen promiles - 1.1 billion. 673 billion. In two years. But why doesn't he propose a reduction in VAT - plus 50 billion in two years, plus 80 including this year, plus 120 if I add 2016? You can use the money! That's when you said "don't increase your VAT." And today, when we admit that it wasn't the luckiest thing, that because the interest was so small, the real blackout was really negligible, 16 per cent, and when we say "let's cut the VAT," then no, no, no! We need the money. We want to redistribute them and distribute them. And I don't think it's for those who have been responsible for their own futures, who want to save and have to put their own resources into it with them seeing them sometime in many years, so you're taking away that possibility from them!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u49	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone with the proper application by Mr Vilímec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u50	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, by making a proposal for a joint debate in my first speech, I have lost a very unique order. During the debate, the debate, there was a lot of information. It is quite significant that the Prime Minister defends most for the government the abolition of the second pillar, not the one who is the petitioner. That's evidence of something. And his argument is very simple: because we stopped the possibility of new participants entering the second pillar a few months ago, so it is now appropriate and logical in such a salami method to cancel the second pillar. If anyone remembers a rather long debate in that first step, in the initial dismantling of the second pillar, it was certainly Prime Minister Babiš, but also other government officials who said yes, we will prepare an alternative to keep the pension system in the future, when demographic developments will be the one that President Fiala spoke of. Finally, I learned from the Prime Minister's mouth that the only alternative is the introduction of an EET - electronic record of sales. I find that a very smiling argument. You see, I am one of those, not only Mr Stanjura, but I too am one of those who entered the second pillar, in an effort to save for retirement, to bring more resources into my pension account and into the system. You know, I think this proposal by the government of Bohuslav Sobotka is crashing citizens' confidence in the state, because the state does not follow the rules that it has adopted before. When I entered the second pillar, and certainly each of the 83,000 participants, I assumed that the state would follow the rules, even though there was a more or less demagogue of the opposition, that once they got into the government, the second pillar would be abolished. I was one of those guys I believed the state should follow the rules. As you can see, it wasn't some good decision in my case. You know, when we're debating that the second pillar didn't succeed, that only 83,000 participants approached it, that it was kind of voluntary for the participant, I didn't hear any substantive argument or reasonable alternative from any of the government officials here, unless I consider it to be the introduction of electronic sales records to prevent the poverty of future seniors. Because it is obvious that their pensions have been in a few years, respectively. For decades, the state will not finance. Indeed, the left-levicový government is ending the system only out of ideological bias. Yes, it was a mistake of the right-wing government, and it was also said that we compromised that we did not make entry into the second pillar mandatory. I don't think we have to have this kind of debate anymore. It is appropriate - and I do not want to repeat the other reasons that have fallen from the right-wing opposition here, but I think there is one more thing. It is appropriate to quantify what the end of the pension savings of 80,000 people will cost roughly. According to the explanatory memorandum, and I quote from the explanatory memorandum, pension companies estimate their costs at approximately CZK 150 million, state within the range - you can look and read the explanatory memorandum - 40 million crowns up to one billion crowns if the current participants go to the third pillar with a state contribution. A number of litigations are not excluded either. This means that we are discussing a bill that can cost the state budget in some variant one billion crowns. At the same time, we know that some blackout from the first pillar for about three years cost CZK 1.1 billion. I think that's kind of an obvious discrepancy. For ideological reasons, we are willing to give one billion crowns for nothing in order to abolish this second pillar. While the proposal on the table is a technical maneuver to end retirement savings, you know that it has a great political reach. I do not understand, therefore, that the government tried to discuss this proposal only in an accelerated reading. There was little talk about the amendment law. Yes, it brings some changes in supplementary pension savings, but the government itself, virtually. the explanatory memorandum effectively assumes or is based on the fact that supplementary pension savings cannot adequately replace the broken pension savings. You can read that in the explanatory memorandum. The government just doesn't worry about it. He relies on the first pillar, so-called The ongoing system, it won't do anything. It's gonna work out. And especially in the future, this government will probably not be there anymore, let the young generation of today work out their future as it pleases. We're going to go ahead with this for a while, according to Professor Potůček and Professor Vostatek's ideas - I don't want to criticize him because I got an "A" when he taught me in the '80s, but he's a big follower of just one solution - the first pillar. Unfortunately, such an approach is the approach of the entire government, not just social democracy. Perhaps the government has taken a Greek example as a role model. They didn't do anything there either, it's gonna work out, then we're not gonna be there until they're in a completely unsolvable situation. I would conclude with the fact that Prime Minister Sobotka has one advantage, that he is young. I wish him a long life. But since he's young, he has a chance that in the future, young people from today's generation or some younger middle generation in the twenty-thirty years that he did 30 years ago, as he provided money for pensions, which will then be missing in those thirty years. I think Prime Minister Sobotka should be preparing what he's going to say to these people in 30 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u51	Thank you, and now, please, with Mr Stanjura's de facto Member. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u52	If you're wrong, you should set the facts straight. And since the screen on the phone is too small, I'm overreacting. The blackout isn't 16 perm, it's 1.6 perm. It's ten times less. Ten more times the arguments I was talking about are more valid. It's 1.6 per mile, it was a blackout from the continuous system. Not 20 billion, as the union headquarters said, side by side with social democracy and KSČM. That would be a completely different number. And I could say that some very young politicians solved their situation very soon, but I don't think it belongs here, that it belongs somewhere else. But perhaps someone in the government could say what the reasons are for canceling the second pillar if it is neither economic nor demographic. Is it really just the ideological ones because you decided years ago that you didn't like it? And now you keep saying, we're canceling because we promised. But no one forced you to do that. You're interrupting today because we have to, because we've stopped entering the second pillar. But you stopped that three months ago, and no one forced you again. Then don't be surprised that this is merely an ideological project. And I'm... I'm sorry that the register register bill will never apply, because what wouldn't the businessmen finance? The pensions, the infrastructure investments, the higher education expenses, everything, really. We have 4% growth, at least for the first quarter confirmed, I think we expect similar numbers for the second quarter, i.e. Autonomousally, there should be some 75 billion in the state budget per year, plus 37 in the half term. None of this is happening, incomes are lower than last year, yet the government and the Treasury praise how well they collect taxes. I just don't understand. That's just not how the numbers work. [[Attention on time.]] And they're your numbers, they're not opposition numbers. Numbers from your materials. So respond to them and try to explain them somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u53	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Mr Stanjura's factual remark is followed by Mr Opálka's factual remark, followed by Mr Laudát with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I have no intention of delaying this honored House with my speeches on pension reform, because if I add up everything I have said here, it will be published for several hours. But I want to respond to my colleague Stanjura's question about the promile. You have to choose. On the one hand, you are complaining that few members, clients, have entered the system through the election campaign and anti-campaign against the other pillar. Nobody knows how many these days because they say less than 85,000, but 5,000 of them are unemployed who haven't paid anything. Another record is on the Czech Social Security Administration, another record is on banks, which, of course, took into account what the dealers had picked up, but also some clients reported that they are only one employer in this system, while working with more. But that's a side thing. The percentage or the promile is so small because more clients were supposed to enter, so larger numbers were estimated, but then we have to come out of what we want. Whether the idea that there will be 3 million citizens or 80,000 citizens in this system. Then, of course, the assumptions of the total amount of money must be different. That's a brief explanation, isn't it? Mr. Stanjura is already recounting how much it would be pardoned if it were 3 million clients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u55	I thank Mr Opálek. With another factual remark, Mr Laudát, Mr Stanjura and Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your two quarters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u56	Thank you. As the debate seems to be coming to an end, I just want to ask, Mr Vice-President, if a motion is being made, because it has been dragging on for a long time, to dismiss, to recast. Both points, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u57	Yes. We're talking about both points. It was tabled by Mrs Chalánková on both points to reject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u58	So I'm making a proposal for a revision. It's for the future. You may have a vote here, but at least somebody morally, and unfortunately, we're not gonna take anything on you, but somebody should be responsible for those crowds of poor, miserable people who won't have a pension to live on. At least moral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u59	Mr. Ambassador, are you filing a motion to dismiss one or both? Because we have a merged debate. Both, I suppose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u60	Both of them and a proposal for a revision of both of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u61	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u62	For Mr Opálka, by your means, Mr Vice-President. We've already made our choice. We want the second pillar to be preserved, voluntary, so that people can have the opportunity. But about the government questions. Try to calculate whether I'm still counting on the little calculator, how many percent of the citizens entered and what's the blackout from the continuous system. You'll find it doesn't match your assumption, percentagely, that they're the richest. Then the income blackout would have to be higher. If we count that we have about 5.5 million active citizens, I think that this number is roughly equivalent, who are somehow involved in the payment of pension insurance, if it's a tax, 185,000, and now that outage is 1.6 million. Try to fill in the explanatory statement, including the age and income structure of the clients, so we know what we're deciding, so it's not completely blind. But to my colleagues at TOP 09, when they asked if the government had any concept. Well, of course he does. dlouhodobý-term, by Vladimír Špidla. Sources are. This is their concept of social and pension reform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u63	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now, Mr Kalousek with a factual remark, after which Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u64	Thank you. Just a brief remark also on Mr Opálek. It's connected, and in a way, it's still connected. Second pillar and VAT. I'm probably gonna blame myself to death for the fact that since I've already accepted the voluntary second pillar, at least I didn't insist on an active speech of disapproval. If he had been active in expressing disapproval as a condition not to participate in the second pillar, the numbers would probably look different today. I made a mistake. But at the same time, with the reduction of the solidarity direct contributions tied to the job, that 3% saves each other for itself, so at the same time it was compensated by the tax on consumption, i.e. by the increase in VAT. The Minister of Finance has an increase in VAT in every sixth sentence, or fifth, as a fundamental mistake that the criminal previous government has made, what a crazy mistake we have made because we have raised those taxes. But why doesn't the VAT cut as hard as it cancels the second pillar? It just had something to do with each other. If you're canceling the second pillar with the same determination because you're saying it was a mistake, then with the same determination, you're supposed to return VAT to the original position, which you're also saying is a mistake. And you don't want to do that anymore. You want the money because you're not good at collecting taxes, even though the economy is working. In that case, it's unfair that in the first, you can be decisive and quick, you criticize the other, but you don't want to make it right because you're very happy to have the money. And that's the money you spend on civil servants' salaries and social benefits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u65	I thank Mr Kalousek. With a factual remark, Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u66	Thank you, for the second time, perhaps for the last time. I would like to say that the KSČM club did not participate in this material, I presented a completely different solution to the committee that discussed the proposal, and I must say that we also proposed a reduction in VAT on food. So I'd hate for us to connect these unconnected vessels. [[17.10 hours]] From our point of view, of course, we cannot take the second pillar as a mistake. This was simply a liking to the second Bezděkův commission, where we also did not have our representation, where they were mostly bank leaders, it was a liking to those who want to manage public finances, and to those who do not want to be so much solidarity on the first pillar. I don't take that as a mistake, but I take that as a bad thing that doesn't work. And what doesn't work is to be canceled. The cancellation is here, and that's why we support it. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u67	I thank Mr Opálek. Mr Václav Votava is the last registered member. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just a reaction to my colleague Stanjura. What do you want to keep? The other pillar is dead. He's dead! People aren't interested, there's only 85,000 clients, pension companies have already called it off. Moreover, it is an obligation for pension companies to have at least 50,000 clients or lose their license. So what do you want to save now? The pillar is just dead! No one expects people to enter it. First, we have adopted a law that we have already blocked entry, but even if we had not adopted it, more people will not enter it for God's sake. The pillar is dead!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u69	I thank Mr Votav. Mr Kalousek, Mr Stanjura, followed by Mr Kalousek. [[A reminder from the diaper.]] Properly logged in. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u70	Thank you. Through Mr President to Mr Votav. If I were to admit that you were right, and for the most part you are, propaganda against the second pillar was actually very successful, and he was dead, we don't have the answer to the other half of the question. VAT has increased against the second pillar to compensate for the public budget deficit. You resolutely and unambiguously cancel out the second pillar that you said was wrong. The increase in VAT, according to you, was also wrong. Then why don't you put it back in its original position with the same impact? The increase in VAT from our point of view and our motivation was in favour of the pension system. You only use it for civil servants' salaries, social benefits, and government-eating consumption. That's the big difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u71	Thank you to President Kalousek. Before I give the floor to Mr Stanjur, Mr Laudát, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u72	Thank you. It was also said in the debate that the rich could afford the second pillar. I would point out that there are a number of people who came into politics a year or two and a half years ago that there is also a decree from the Constitutional Court that our system does not take into account merit. That's another thing. But the second pillar also came to the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. Guys, you've got four percent growth, you've kept the top rates of the dépéháček, and besides cosmetic changes, where you've helped salesmen and various dealers rather than citizens, so you've kept the money from the reduced dépéháček because you're not picking any more, but you're taking less. How much do you need to keep eating this? How much more do you need to squeeze out of people to keep this state on your dirty feet? Please note that you are increasing your debt, we still have a deficit budget in this growth. And budget deficit a lot. That the budget is shrinking relatively within the scope of the fact that a squabble is now popping up. You know, when there's a crisis that's going very fast, it jumps fast, and suddenly we're behind the 60 percent that you want to put in budgetary responsibility today. Or 50, but it's gonna be even more. A lot more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u73	I thank Mr Laudát. Mr. President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u74	First, in response to the words of the Chairman of the Budget Committee. My colleague, through the Vice-President, your logic is relentless. You killed someone, and then you say - it's dead what you want. It's hard to argue with. [[A round of applause and amusement for a part of the Members.]] Hat down, it's hard to find a solution. Unlike others, I will not laugh at the Minister of Finance that he did not bring pension reform in those two months. I didn't believe him then. I know there was at least one member of the ANO movement who immediately ran to the microphone and said: This is finally the right conceptual elaborate reform. He'll be disappointed. I'm not disappointed, because things that complicated can't be done that fast. We've learned ourselves that if there's no wider consensus, it's a problem for the system. I would like to say a few small things that we could consider together and which could benefit the system without calling it a reform. Our citizens are mistaken - and I don't blame them because I can't explain it properly - they think they're paying for their retirement. You hear that very often from people who have a lower pension than they expected. I've been paying for my whole life, and now I have a little pension. First of all, we could call it pension tax, not pension insurance. Secondly, and that would cost us almost nothing, we could keep each citizen's individual accounts. Each company makes a monthly report to the Social Security Administration with a birth number, how much it pays for its employee, how much it pays for its employer. The state has data again, it is not a new obligation, but we could, for example, on request - similar to the health insurance statement - tell a citizen who cares how much he himself has done every year in the interim system and how much he has paid since he started paying. Just so the citizens can see that they don't save up for retirement, but that they pay pensions to existing pensioners. I think it could go through, it's a technical thing, and it would help raise awareness. If we talk about how to introduce, for example, more support for families in the pension system, as civil democrats, we give consideration to a proposal that we failed to enforce in the last parliamentary term, I admit honestly, I think the proposal fell because of food stamps - it's comical, but food stamps move a lot here - and that those who pay pension insurance could one percent - they could, not had - pay directly to their retired parents. I think that's a thing that promotes family companionship. We're giving this as an incentive so we don't just go out with criticism. It is not a reform, it is small things that could, first, contribute to greater citizens' awareness of how the ongoing system works, that it does not save, but it pays someone else's pension, and it must rely on them to be so economically active when they retire and to have enough salaries to be able to pay their pension again. Secondly, support for the family not by engineering, that according to the number of children, social contributions will change, but by the fact that people would have the right, not by obligation, e.g. One percent send directly to parents who are retired. And when we talk about those committees, this committee was government. It wasn't a committee looking for a match. The Commission was created so that the government would have an argument for the abolition of the second pillar. You could've saved yourself a job, you would've come up with it anyway, and you didn't have to disguise it. No one listens to us there, we only go to numbers, no one talks to us, you treat us like the House, you have a majority, and so it will be one way or another. This way, we can't get to some common intersection in this difficult problem. When I hear the results, it's like a press conference on social democracy. This is not a press conference of the Joint Commission on pension reform. I don't know if you're doing it right at the People's House, but you can do it on party ground, you don't have to pretend it's some independent expert committee that's supposed to give us all some kind of advice. They're fulfilling your party assignment, why not, but let's call it real names. It's your party committee, which creates a basis, would-be expert, for your political agenda. I'm saying it's legitimate, but we don't take it that there's a joint committee that's honestly trying to find a long-term solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u75	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Kalousek, after which Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u76	Thank you, Mr President. It would probably be fair, after President Stanjura's speech, to stand up for the members of the ANO Club. I remember the debate from April, when the Minister of Finance here shocked all his parameters of the future pension reform, which he will present in June. When I took the liberty of pointing out what the impact would be and that I really didn't think he was going to do something like this, he got very angry and said that we've been babbling about it for 20 years, but he's going to bring it up in June so that we can see how it works instead of talking. The truth is - our dialogue is in open sources, it will be found - the truth is, and here I would like to stand by the members of the ANO movement that only one jackass with a footman went to defend his chairman. I saw in the eyes of the others that they knew that the President was talking and that he wasn't going to submit anything. But what could they have done?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u77	With another factual remark, Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u78	Thank you. There's not much to make promises. I would have responded to President Stanjura. First of all, thank you for your support, because I have already submitted this to the so-called Potůčkův Commission, but not the parents, but the tutors, because 50 percent are born outside the marriage arrangement. So they live in other families, 50 percent of the biological families are falling apart, so it's quite complicated there. And then whoever has more children and gets a percentage of each, of course, gets a bigger pension. This is a motivation that, unfortunately, was rejected in Potůčkův's commission. But you will find it on the web of KSČM, on my website and on the web of Potůčkův's commission. And second point. Yes, virtual accounts of individual clients of the system of the Czech administration, or citizens, exist as much as they were paid for pension insurance. Without them, the pension could not be calculated. Sadly, not in my whole life, but since 1986. So whoever has an electronic signature has access to it online, who doesn't, can ask for it every year. It's accessible now, we don't have to introduce anything new.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u79	With a point of fact, Mr Roman Sklenák, President of the ČSSD Membership Club. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u80	Thank you for the floor. I certainly don't want to respond to everything that is being said here, but at least on one thing I want to respond to President Stanjura as far as Potůčkův's commission is concerned. He said something here in the sense that we set it up to give us some arguments to cancel the second pillar. Of course, this is not at all true, because the abolition of the second pillar is in the government's programming declaration. With this program statement, the government came before this House and gained confidence. A Potůčkův's commission was tasked with proposing the way in which the second pillar would be abolished, plus the next steps. So this government has certainly already acted in the vote on trust, with the second pillar being abolished. That's one thing. Second thing. I certainly do, unlike you, my colleague through the President, go to Potůčkův's Commission, and I certainly cannot agree that anyone would not be given the space to deal with opponents there so that their opinion would be silenced. The commission consists not only of politicians, but of sociologists, demographers, a number of different professions, it is quite a large body, it has its working groups in which consensus is sought, and most of the commission's outputs are accepted by a large majority present. That's what I wanted to set right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u81	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u82	Just so we're clear, now I look like I'm not going anywhere. I'm not a member of that committee, so I can't go there, so you have to say it. That's what it looked like I could go there, hang out somewhere. So how can you tell someone who's not a member of the committee that they don't go there? That's logical, isn't it? Most of the Chamber of Deputies do not go there because they are not members. Just so we're clear. But I'm asking the members of the Civil Democratic Party who go there. Yes, you always overvote them. You're right. I didn't say you had it made so you'd have most of it. I agree with all that. But you used that iron logic again: we have it in the government's programming statement, and it's done. We're not going to talk about this anymore, because - I didn't say trust to this government once, so maybe I have the right to say it's not a good move. You too, Mr President, through Mr President, have avoided any argument other than that you have it on the agenda and that you have it in the programming statement and perhaps in the coalition agreement. Why don't you respond to the numbers? 1.6. You're laughing. Well, why those 85,000 people, or 80,000 people, I don't know, you're not even able to figure out how many it is, you have a government, you should know exactly what it is, it should be in the explanatory report, so why don't you argue a little bit of numbers? Why just because -- the argument I really don't like -- it's what it is. What happened happened. Right? Well, I'm sorry that this argument isn't enough for us. If it's in the explanatory report, we don't come here asking how many clients, how old they are, what income they have, when they entered, how many months they pay. But the costs you estimate to be one billion to end it, that's what you think? I don't know, you're on that committee. Just like Potůčkův's committee thought it would cost a billion. So ask the members of the Potůčkův committee why it's not cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u83	Thank you. That was the last application for the debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. Please, Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u84	Thank you for the floor. I listened carefully to the discussion. I'm not a pension system specialist, I wanted to learn. I think the Minister of Finance Babiš has presented a brilliant solution here. He told us - either there will be money and there will be pensions, or there will be no money and there will be no pensions. I'd quite agree with that. But in other words, Minister Babiš tells us: Give me, Minister of Finance, money, and I will take it and pour the money into a black hole called the unreformed Czech pension system. That's what the Minister of Finance Babiš tells us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u85	I thank Mr Kučer. If no one else signs up for the debate, I will end the merged debate on paragraphs 27 and 28. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. First, the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to respond to the slapping. It really doesn't make any sense to discuss anything with you. I had the good will to discuss a project, I quoted a few sentences, but in the end it always ends with humiliation and ridicule. Then why should I discuss it with you? And then, as part of the coalition, I think that we, as an YES movement with the ČSSD, have completely different views on pension reform, which, of course, has not yet been resolved here, which is why I gave up. I've said it before, so I repeat it again. It's simple. It's either we have money or we don't. And we have the money. Do not say, Mr Laudát, through Mr President, that there is a deficit, that we are increasing debt. We have an surplus budget of 30. 6. plus 22 billion. Since January 29, 2014, as I joined office, I am to 30. 6. reduced our country's absolute debt by 20.3 billion. State debt 31. 12. 2013 was 4,12 %, currently 3.72, i.e. 4 percent less. Government sector 31. 12. 2013 - 45 percent. The estimate for this year is 40 percent, so 45 minus 40 is minus 5. Don't tell me we don't collect taxes. Last year, we picked 31 billion. more. And this year, we're going to pick 20 billion. more. And 46 billion next year. more. And we chose social by 46 billion. more and health we chose 2014, 2015, 2016 by 27.8 billion. more. So if I count it, I'm over 176 billion. I'm not saying give me money. I'm in charge. So I don't know what you're still talking about. [[17.30 hours]] Plus the taxes. Yes, we have also collected a tax on legal persons and physical persons. Yes, and why do we have a VAT drop? Well, because someone here made a tax haven in Prague, because when we opened the drawers, we found out that VAT had been withheld for several years, so we had to pay back. There's such a mess, we inherited this mess. So that's all false. We collect the taxes, the pension account, the balance, it goes down, it goes down to 36 billion next year. Well, those are numbers, and the next time you talk, at least take the files from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u87	There. The President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura is already reporting with the documents. Please, with priority rights, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u88	So, Minister, first of all, we are ready for a debate on pension reform. I told you, I'm not surprised you missed it in two months and I don't think I can make it. There's no humiliation, no criticism. We're ready. I don't care if the Social Democrats say it's not your business. I think it is a matter that should be of interest to all political parties who are in the Chamber of Deputies and should try to find a solution, but not to the format of the Potůčkův Commission, but to some political negotiations. So I'm saying for us that we're ready for this negotiation without laying down any preliminary terms, without saying that it has to be one way or another. We certainly don't humiliate anyone in this debate today, we're trying to discuss things. And when you spew those numbers on us, I've got the state budget on key items in the last four years. And I think they're your numbers. And if last year 2014 e.g. Took 10 billion for social security. more - that's including pensions, we can't - by 10 billion, and you say 20, so I don't know who's talking. [[unintelligible]] These are the numbers from your... Look at the December state budget implementation, it's on the Ministry of Finance's website. There's an item in the expenditure, it's income collected for social security, 382,75 billion. That's 100% state income. In 2013, 372 billion. It's a difference of 10 billion. But when I listen to you, I feel like you employ all the citizens and all the employers. It's just not like that, even though you employ a relatively large number of them. Yes, because of that - and I was talking about it, and I acknowledged that because of lower unemployment and rising wages, in six months' time, 11 billion were chosen. more social security, 9 billion of it. for pension insurance. Who knows how it works, they know it's made up of several parts. But that is primarily the credit of employers. By offering more jobs and giving those employees better wages, and that's good. None of us will criticize that. But it is no credit to the government, neither to this past nor to the future. In addition - and for this we rightly criticize you - in addition to the salaries of civil servants, where the numbers are disproportionately increasing, the number of Deputys starting with and the absolute number of civil servants in ministries as well. I think we can criticize this, it is in the government's hands, and when it increases the number of employees and creates unnecessary jobs, it is, of course, indirectly beneficial to the state budget in that small item of social and health insurance and possibly to the tax on dependent activities, but it does harm the expenditure on the performance of state administration in that large item. And that's how I could talk about any tax. For example, excise duties were collected less than 2 billion in 2014. than in 2013. I'm talking about the state's share, the excise duty is 100% contribution, the income of the state's budget. The numbers are clear. And if you say with great fame that this year you will choose by 20 billion. more, so it's just not enough. If there's going to be a 4% growth, and all economists agree that 1% of GDP is autonomously producing 13 billion. to the state budget, 13 times 4 is 52. And everything above 52 is government effort, and 52 exactly means that the government has done nothing, neither plus nor minus. Everything under 52 goes to the government for bad tax collection. Let's have fun, it's not humiliation, it's a normal debate over numbers and facts. And these are numbers that have really been going on for years - I've had it here since 2007, monthly implementation of all the decisive taxes. I don't think anyone's questioning that 1% of GDP is plus 13 billion. That's what the economic community agrees on, that's not the number the opposition invented. And we said conservatively that the growth is considered to be 2.5 percent in 2015. These were estimates at the beginning of this year or at the end of last year, and that would be some 30, 32 billion. to the state budget. If the economy gets more efficient and grow bigger, it could be about 50 billion. But we won't make the bill until January. When you didn't like the criticism of some - and I didn't belong to them because they criticized you after two months of choice and I was one of those who said let's wait for a longer period, it's not worth solving partial results. We can look at trends, we can look at, we can judge the effects of the type of VAT withheld, that is certainly the influence we are talking about. The pre-supply of excise duty on tobacco is also an influence that we are talking about. But the frontload meant that sometimes it was chosen more when it was chosen less this year. And these are the logical arguments that anyone who wants to deal with it honestly and correctly will recognize. So I'm still missing economic arguments in this debate about why we're interrupting the second pillar. We have learned how much more the government will choose, and I say that it is little with such good economic growth - and we are glad that this economic growth is like that. About 20 billion. plus is just a little, even if I count the influences e.g. VAT withheld, because when I asked at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, your representatives estimated that because I was interested in the state at the end of 2014, so that we could compare it with the situation at the end of 2015, they estimated that at the end of 2014, the VAT withheld could be between 1 and 2 billion, which is certainly not a decisive figure in the volume of over 300 billion that will be collected on VAT. So let's really wait for that data for a whole year, but it should be plus 52 billion if it's four percent growth. If it's 3%, give or take 39. I think that's how we need to proceed. Or - and I do not rule it out - if you are questioning the number, then it is necessary to convince the economic community that its calculations were incorrect and that, with 1% GDP growth, it is not automatically plus 13 billion. to the state budget. I say this number is not opposition, it is a number that all economists consider correct and with which they work in their thoughts and comments on the implementation of the budget of each government and every finance minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u89	Well, thank you to President Stanjur. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek, after whom Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u90	Thank you, Mr President. By your means, I want to say to the Minister that I respect a certain degree of demagogy in political debate, that is something that is sometimes slipped in. But the shamelessness of your arguments, Minister, goes beyond the standard of aesthebacic slanders for which pre-November workers were trained. How much is collected and should have been chosen, it was discussed here by colleague Stanjura, and I will not delay it. You're arguing with absolute numbers, it should be a lot more relatively, and I'm not going back to that. But you said why there was a VAT distortion. Because when you opened the drawers, you found out that there'd been VAT withheld for many years, so you inherited a mess. That's conclusive, that's what you said, and now we're gonna find it in open sources. And just like that, we'll find it in open sources that it's conclusive that it's a major wall of 12 to 14 billion. VAT seized was created in the first quarter of 2014. Who was the Finance Minister, please? Sobotka? Klaus? Or Mertlík? That was the Minister of Finance Babiš who caused this mess if you want to call it a mess! And you have the shame of saying you inherited it! Forgive me, Minister, sometimes it takes a very strong stomach to listen to your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u91	Now with priority rights, Minister Babiš, who will at the same time reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u92	I am delighted to listen to Mr Kalousek, who has privatized the financial administration with Mr Knížek, who has a 100-mile criminal report. Crowns, suspicions of strange contracts. And it was - I don't know why there was a ban, Mr. Exministro, to control the financial administration when you two were poaching it. And I said another 2.5 billion. We found it in the drawers. Yes, the first arrest, you're right, it was 2014, but additionally. And that's the result of your work at the Treasury Department. So there's evidence of that, the 2.5 billion. This is the Prague event, where the financial administration went, tax control, every 200 years. [[17.40 hours]] I beg you, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, these are different mantras. I'm not a macro-economist, it's always been said that we grow according to Germany. So it didn't work out right now, and we don't have 4 percent growth. We've got about 2.5 or 2.6 percent growth, now we're counting. And I'm inviting you because, yes, those are the mantras, they keep repeating themselves. I'm looking for your 13 billion, and I'm not. And you know why? Because growth in the first quarter was an increase in stocks. And anyone who does business knows there's no tax on supplies. And by increasing exports - it is also not a tax, and by increasing investment - it is not a tax. So we're counting now, and I'm happy - please call the great macro-economics. We might as well do the debate. And I'm gonna show you the growth, we're gonna count it, I'm gonna have it counted exactly. And you also forgot to count something: 4.2 billion VAT on medicines, child nutrition and books, 2013, 2014 tax advantage that we gave back to pensioners for two years, as well as tax advantage for children. And all of that, when we count, we're close to 10 billion. So we need to do the math. So I'm happy to meet you on this, and I'm going to show you the exact numbers, because they're kind of mantras. And one percent of the growth of 13 billion is, in my opinion, nonsense. Moreover, the consumption that was higher is the question of how much consumption was within the grey economy and whether those who sold pay taxes. If there's a record of sales, then I can rule it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u93	The Minister has reopened the merged debate on two points. Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Kalousek has a point in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes after him with priority rights, Prime Minister and President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u94	I will, through Mr President, briefly read you one calculation, Minister. Not with VAT, this time with income tax. You've recently appreciated the best corporation tax payers. It's a nice tradition, I'm glad you're doing this. The 20th was somewhere around 400 million. Agrofert, with a profit of CZK 6 billion, should be around one billion, slightly above CZK 19% of corporate tax. kupodivu enough, he didn't make it to the top 20 because he was taxing less than 400 million. Why? Because the structure with 200 organizations, with 200 legal entities allows incredible legal, but on the edge, legal operations called optimization, e.g. even with the insurance of own property, where the person subordinate, the insurance intermediary, then offers it to his insurer where the buyer is needed. Chairman of the Young Anonists. [[Laughing in the Hall]] . I said anonists. And all of a sudden, we're gonna lose 600, 650 million optimized taxes that we don't have to pay to that state. Of course, that's not what this businessman has, and that's why we have to blackmail him with such nonsense as EET. That's how you do the math. And that's why some big oligarchs need to hold the legislation that would allow them to do this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u95	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Bendl, after which, in fact, Minister Babiš, after him with priority rights, the Prime Minister and President Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would also like to remind you, since we are already talking about how money was transferred from year to year and how the Ministry of Finance used some of the funds, then I would also like to remind you that there have been 16 billion left over from former governments in the accounts of state-owned enterprises in the case of the Forests of the Czech Republic, in the case of Budvar, two billion. Free, loose money. And we need to remember them, too, because we've already eaten them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u97	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Babiš. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd like to ask Mr. Kalousek for these dirty lies and inventives. Come to Agrofert, Mr. Kalousek. And there I'll tell you that the entire profit is including Germany, Slovakia, Hungary, Holland, all over the world. And in that, the German chemist has two billion profits, so that's where the majority is made. So my companies took $2.4 billion to health and social last year and paid 752 million taxes. So I'd love it if you wouldn't lie again. It's a dirty lie, and I fundamentally reject it! So study it. And Agrofert is a large tax payer in Germany as well as in Slovakia and other countries. So I'm rejecting these dirty invectives and lies!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u99	Mr Kalousek is now registered with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u100	I see. That was the relevant answer, and I thank you for it. It merely corrects the legend that the enlightened and wise ruler of Agrofert taxes exclusively in the Czech Republic, while the rest of them quite dirty taxes abroad. Thank you for the information, Minister and Owner of Agrofert, for taxing Germany, Holland, Slovakia and many other countries outside the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u101	Well, now he's gonna get the Prime Minister's priority right. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor. After him, Chairman Stanjura. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u102	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I think that parliamentary debate is useful, it is important to listen to what the opposition says. But I want to apologize to Mr Stanjur, Mr Kalousek, for not acting on what they recommend. I simply thank you for all the good advice you have given us now during the previous debate, but I have to say that my experience of having been able to implement your recommendations and recipes in practice is simply negative. I don't think we'd be doing the country well if we followed your advice. You had the opportunity to implement your policy. Mr Stanjura was in ODS, he was also a member of the government for some time, Mr Kalousek was Minister of Finance for many years in governments together with ODS, i.e. ODS and TOP 09 had a huge time and time space for many years to implement their policy. I love listening here in the Chamber of Deputies when Mr Stanjura complains that most of us are here, that most of us are not discussing and that these things will decide what they want. I just want to remind Mr. Stanjur that you made all the decisions you wanted. You built the second pillar, too. You set his parameters. It wasn't a social democracy. And I must say, I am am amused by how some of the former right-wing government officials are apologizing for making the mistake of setting the pillar wrong, and now they're telling us how to do pension reform. They themselves misplaced when they had the opportunity to set up the second pillar, they themselves acknowledged in the debate that it had turned out to be a disaster, and now they are giving good advice to the current government on how to do pension reform. You have every right to be. And I think it's the government's duty to listen to what the opposition says, we're doing it right here, we're listening to what the opposition says, but don't be mad at me that we're not going to implement your advice, because when you had the opportunity, it turned out wrong. It's nice to hear how Mr Stanjura of the ODS criticizes the government's tax collection because the economy grew by 4 percent in the first quarter. I just want to remind you that there were other times. The whole of Central Europe was growing and there was only one country under Nečasův' government, which was in recession. And she was in recession for two years, and taxes were really bad. There were big tax breaks and there was a big problem. Guess which country was the only country in Central Europe that had been in recession for two years under Nečasův' government? Well, I'll tell you. It was the Czech Republic. Forgive me for not implementing your advice, because when you had the opportunity to do budgetary and economic policy, it turned out that we were the worst in the whole of Central Europe in terms of economic growth. And then there were countries that were ahead of us. Well, how is that possible? If you're so smart and you have the right recipes, how is it possible that when you had x years in a row and you had a majority and you could set up these things as you wanted it to turn out the way it did. Explain that to me. I'd like to hear it from the representatives of the ODS, the representatives of the TOP 09. [[17.50 hours]] It's just not good advice. These are the wrong recipes. And you've made many mistakes. I'm just going to give one particular example, because I remember the debate well. A few years ago, back then, as Minister of Finance, I was promoting the collection of spirits. And there were arguments similar to EET's today. For electronic sales log. There were arguments that it just wouldn't work, that there wouldn't be any more taxes, that it would just bother the liquor traders if they put in place the collection of spirits. That's exactly how the ODS argued here, then the right. We put it in place, we had a majority, we made a decision, and we made the right decision. We introduced the collection of spirits and the right-wing government, when it arrived, did not cancel it, because it increased the collection of excise duties by about a billion crowns a year, the introduction of the system of alcohol collection. And we didn't have to raise the tax. He improved his selection simply because he made order in the sale of spirits by introducing stamps. You were against it, and you didn't cancel it yourself because you found out it worked. So you're not always right. You've also made a mistake in the past, you've made a mistake in collecting spirits, you've made a mistake in the second pillar, and there's been a number of mistakes. You were wrong about a super gross wage. It's just all true. And speaking of economic growth, it's not exactly an automatic thing. When you look at what contributes to economic growth, what pulls the economy, what pulls economic growth. We managed to get the construction started. Traffic constructions have grown the most today. This contributes to building growth, creates jobs, and supports the economy. And it is the result of a number of concrete steps that we have taken as a government coalition to speed up construction. And again, compared to the mistakes you've made here, let me just remind you how cleverly you've reduced the purchase prices for land under communications, and you've done it so cleverly that people have stopped selling anything to the state. Again, it was your valuable advice, which you had the opportunity to implement in practice, and it turned out disastrously. I want to remind the European funds. The Deputy Prime Minister mentioned here that the budget has been in surplus in the last month, among other things, as a result of the launch of European funds. It's just a situation that didn't happen automatically either, but there was a lot to be done to avoid losing money. The first year we boarded, the state lost about 12 billion. Only because the European funds could not be exhausted. So the government needs to change politics, and we have succeeded, and by drawing on European funds, it also contributes to economic growth. And one last thing. You guys, when you were in government and you had that opportunity, ODS and TOP 09, very often choked the demand. You've been cutting back on household consumption. You said that it doesn't really make any sense, that the economy is on export and that it doesn't really matter if people have what it takes to shop to spend money. You've just been underestimating household consumption in your economic policy for a long time, and we're not making that mistake. That is why we have also increased public sector salaries, increased pensions, increased minimum wages, and this year it is positive. One factor that draws economic growth, and it is no longer just export, but it is also household consumption. And it is assessed positively that the government has managed to create in part a psychologically, partly realistic atmosphere in which household consumption is growing. So I'm sorry. It is the government's duty to listen to the opposition, I will continue to do so, but we will not follow your advice, because when you had the opportunity to do so, it was a disaster for our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u103	Now, with a point of fact, Mr Laudát. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. After him with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u104	Just a brief mention of one thing that the Prime Minister is spreading here, and that's land purchases. Prime Minister, you really don't know what's going on at the Transport Department? Do you know that you have a failed law in the interdepartmental proceedings of the novel Prachařův? Because the purchase of land after you stuffed in here despite all the opposition proposals, whether it was Zbyněk Stanjura's proposal, which I signed, or my colleagues from KSČM, you didn't start buying out, you paralyzed it. And you probably don't know yet, it hasn't come to you yet, that we're offering to sign a novel of your novel to start buying something out at all. You really don't know what condition it is and what are the forecasts for putting motorways and express roads into service for 2016, how many kilometres in 2017, 2018? You'll probably be among the worst governments since 1970 - averaged. You don't know what's going on in there, spreading this kind of pseudooptimism? And unfortunately, it's the same for others. I don't know why the Minister of Finance felt wronged here. On the contrary, I have made it clear here that pensions are about money in the first place, which we seem to agree on, and that we think it can't lie out of. And if someone pushed him away, coalition partners, like he said here, it's not his business. It's his business. So, on the contrary, we insist that he deal with it. And I can imagine with some kind of system. Because apparently Potůčkův's commission talks, talks and deals with the stock market and comes up with nothing. Let the Minister of Finance come. Whoever comes up with a sustainable pension system in this country will have our support. But serious, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u105	I thank Mr Laudát. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u106	While the Prime Minister claims to be listening to the opposition, I did not mention at least two things he said. I didn't give any advice to the government. And you say, I'm sorry, I won't follow them. But I didn't really give any advice to the government or ask for it. Then I don't know why you're sorry. No need. There's no reason for me to advise the government. I can criticize the government. I have only offered two possible topics to the debate for civil democrats on pension policy, which I think are not controversial, are rather technical, and this was an offer for dialogue. I responded to the Minister of Finance's speech. That was no advice. But when colleagues from the ANO movement say that there are newcomers in the House, I feel like a rookie against the Prime Minister here. I'm only here for the second term, and now I don't know exactly which one you, fifth or sixth. And I just can't tell you what was ten or twelve years ago. But he always uses, and I remember that half-truth. He told the truth: "You, ODS, ruled with Miroslav Kalousek." And you don't? Don't you, Prime Minister? Why are you ashamed of this? You've ruled with Miroslav Kalousek for years. Did you forget that? I know he was at KDU at the time, but you were with him in the government. We don't. You, as Social Democrats, weren't you with Miroslav Kalousek in the government? I don't know. So let's look at the composition of governments over the last few years, as was the case in the 2006-2009 parliamentary term. It almost doesn't matter that you're ashamed of it. That's your problem. We didn't say we were infallible, we didn't do anything back. You're a little conflicting. The Minister of Finance says that growth is really just stocks, exports, and therefore taxes cannot be paid. And you're talking about growth being driven by household investment. I don't remember us as civil democrats underestimating household consumption. Yes, we were trying to save money in the public sector. That's right. But when you say that we were the worst in the Central European region as far as economic growth is concerned, you are right. But look at other numbers - for example, debt, and I would expect the left side to appreciate that. Unemployment. Yes, our eastern neighbor Slovakia grew faster than the Czech Republic. That's right. And what was the unemployment rate against the Czech Republic? Why don't you at least give these two basic figures together? GDP growth is such an imaginary number for citizens. Who can imagine 4 trillion crowns? And as stocks are made, exports. It's very complicated. Unemployment, everyone will understand. And there's a difference of 7 and 13 percent. That's perfectly logical. I'm a rookie against you, you're an experienced debater for many terms of office. You say something we didn't say, and now we're attacking it. We didn't say we didn't make a mistake, we didn't give you any advice. We are just, and I think it's the opposition's right, criticizing the proposal you're making, and we asked you politely to justify the point of ending pension savings in the second pillar. That in the debate, thanks to the Minister of Finance, we got to implement the state budget and other things, it's not my fault. I'm just reacting. [[18.00 hours]] However, when we talk about how well taxes are collected, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, he is also the former Finance Minister. When you say that the government is collecting taxes well, how is it possible that social security collection, pension security is increasing by more than 5 percent and tax collection from dependent activity by about 1 percent? [[The Minister from the right responds off the microphone.]] No, it's not that. That's not a tax discount. That's impossible. That doesn't match your... Or when you submitted the material, your government material-- the explanatory report on how many blackouts there are in a year, you were wrong because we've had six months -- six months -- and instead of plus 2.5 billion, it's plus less than 400 million. So you're telling me that the state is going to lose $4 billion a year with that discount? If it's $2 billion in six months... Well, it can happen. But then you guys got a lot wrong about your material when you started the discount, and we supported it, I mean, we voted for it, but you can't do any magic with those numbers. As a matter of fact, you can, but we will always remind you of the numbers from your materials, the House prints. Also, speaking of a 15-to-five-percent VAT blackout, it's not four billion in six months. That's just not true. Or maybe that's true, and you had completely misjudged estimates in the Houses of the Press that you introduced. I would ask you to respond to what we have said and not respond to what we have not said or what you might wish we had said. If you've identified any government advice, I'm sorry, I'll return the apology. I didn't mean to advise you. If that's what it sounded like, I'm really sorry you didn't feel wronged. But don't be ashamed of your coalition partners, whatever it was in any government. I think that's the right approach. We know something about what coalition compromises are. And when I complain to you, which is a strong expression, to revote, not in the Chamber of Deputies, so we understand each other. That's what I think is perfectly natural, and you're not gonna get a complaint from me that we have less votes than a government coalition. There's no reason to complain about it. I was just a little ironically describing the work of your Social Democratic Potůčkův Pension Commission. That's what I'm talking about, you're always voting us over, that the committee is just formal, and it's useless that it's not looking for a match, it's just to confirm your political views. I was not talking about voting in the Chamber of Deputies. I know how broken forces are, and I'm not complaining about it. And I know that the government majority has more than opposition in any parliamentary term, and it seems normal to me. You really don't have to apologize for that. It seems normal to us that you have a majority right now, but you won't always have one. Trust us again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u107	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u108	Thank you for the floor. Perhaps one last time at this point. But what was said by President Stanjura. Yes, we will continue to remind the official numbers of the Ministry of Finance, which are mostly in direct conflict with what the Minister says. The tragedy is that if you say out loud and you quote directly from the government's material the Ministry of Finance number, the Minister of Finance will say it's a lie. And the current Czech media scene will say: Stanjura said these numbers and Babiš said it was a lie, and here we disagree, gentlemen, let's move on. And that it's from official government materials, that's basically not gonna be written by any journalist unless there's an honorable exception. That's a little desperate for the current public debate. However, when you, through Mr President Stanjur, blamed the Prime Minister for ruling with Miroslav Kalousek and for looking back into the anus, i.e. the lists of individual members of the government, you do not have to look at them. I'll honestly tell you that Gross and Paroubek didn't rule, that they dragged me into that government with all their strength, and I didn't want to, because I really didn't want to sit there with them, so I didn't sit there with them. For the first time, I went to the government with the ODS. It wasn't a swan with you either. [[A commotion in the hall.]] But it was worth a try at least. I have never sat with social democratic ministers in government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-07-ps2013-029-05-006-999.u109	Thank you to President Kalousek. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I shall end the merged general debate on paragraphs 27 and 28. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur about the final words. Not interested anymore. Thank you. So let's go back to the point.
