ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-16-ps2013-036-10-014-045.u1	45. Government bill on some offences / House print 554/ - first reading There's an application for check-out, I'm signing you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. I hereby initiate the vote to refer the proposal to the appellant for completion. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 320 vote, 121 Members and Members are registered, for 29, against 68, the proposal has not been adopted. So we will consider the commandment of the committee for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I therefore initiate the vote on the commandment of this proposal to the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. Who is, pro, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 321 vote, 121 Members and Members registered, for 116, against none. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, I have here Mr Benda's motion on the commandment of this bill to the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandments of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I've started the vote. Whoever is for the commandment to this committee, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 322, with 121 Members, for 117, against 2, the proposal has been adopted. The last proposal that we will address, with which the appellant agreed, was to extend the deadline for a hundred days, as suggested by Mr Benda. I hereby initiate the vote on the extension of the time limit for discussion to a hundred days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 323, 121 Members and Members, for 120, against 1, and this proposal has also been adopted. I therefore note that we have ordered the Government's draft law on certain offences, House press 554, to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee, the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, and to extend the deadline for committee discussions to a hundred days. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister, and I conclude the debate on paragraph 45. Initiating adjournment of adjourned point
