ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-017-026.u1	26. Government bill amending Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on Municipalities (General Establishment), as amended, Act No. 129/2000 Sb., on regions (regional establishment), as amended, Act No. 131/2000 Coll., on the capital of Prague, as amended, and Act No. 256/2013 Sb., o cadastral of real estate (Cadastral law) /house print 454/ - first reading I will also ask the Home Secretary here to give us the proposal. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-017-026.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the draft law amending the law on municipalities, the regional law, the law on the capital city of Prague and the cadastral law. The purpose of the proposed amendment is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-017-026.u3	I am very sorry, Minister, for interfering with this, but I would like to interrupt the debate between my colleagues and my fellow Members. Now, please listen to the Minister, transfer your debates to the galleys. Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-017-026.u4	Thank you. The purpose of the proposed amendment is, in particular, three sets of questions, firstly, the legislation of so-called territorial anomalies, secondly, the amendment in connection with the adoption of the new Civil Code and, thirdly, the regulation of the work of the Committee on National Minorities and street labelling in the language of national minorities. The reason for the proposal is mainly to address the problematic boundaries of municipalities collectively referred to as territorial anomalies. The aim of the proposal is to create a legal instrument to resolve territorial anomalies, which will be used where the agreement of municipalities is not possible in the long term. It is therefore proposed to establish the competence of the Ministry of the Interior in order to enable it, in this limited range of cases, to decide, so-called ex officio, in administrative proceedings. The proposed proposal further removes the application problems that arise in connection with the link of the laws on territorial self-governing units to the new Civil Code, which cannot be satisfactorily resolved by the interpretation of this Act. The third heading relates to the adaptation of the work of the Committee on National Minorities and street labelling in the language of the national minority. The proposed legislation is based on conclusions Reports on the situation of national minorities in the Czech Republic for 2013. According to the proposed amendment, municipalities should be obliged to set up a committee only on condition that the association representing the interests of the national minority so requests. On the basis of the requirements of the municipalities, the amendment also explicitly provides for the approval of municipalities and regions to draw data from the population register in order to appreciate significant jubilee life or welcome citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-017-026.u5	I thank the Minister and I now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Petr, to take the floor and present us with this proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-017-026.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, the reason for the proposal is to address the issue of the disputed boundaries of the municipalities which arose from a discrepancy in the territory of the municipality with the cadastral breakdown or absence of its own cadastral territory. At present, these irregularities significantly complicate the performance of not only territorial self-government but also public administration. The legislation in force allows this situation to be dealt with only by agreement of the municipalities concerned. In practice, however, it turns out that reaching such an agreement is really unattainable. The aim of the proposal is to create a legal instrument to resolve all identified territorial anomalies that can be applied where the municipality agreement is not possible in the long term. The issue of the disputed borders affects a total of thirty municipalities, mostly in the Central Bohemia Region - six, two in the South Bohemia Region and two in the Vysočina Region. There is only one case in Moravian-Silesian, Olomouc, Zlinsky, South Moravian, Kralove Hradec and Pardubice Region. Overall, there are 30 cases of territorial anomalies, 289 buildings on the disputed territory. This proposal assumes that anomalies will be removed by the end of 2017 and presented in a variant solution. In addition to the new Act on Municipalities, Regional Establishments, the capital of Prague and the cadastral law, this amendment also amends the laws on territorial self-governing units, in connection with the adoption of the new Civil Code. Moreover, the material is also used by the petitioner to comply with Government Resolution No. 455 of 16 June 2014 to regulate the work of the Committee on National Minorities and street labelling in the language of national minorities. Other changes are rather technical. I conclude that the present draft is properly equipped with the final report of the evaluation of the impact of RIA regulation, the bill does not conflict with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, it does not conflict with the international contractual obligations of the Czech Republic, it will have no impact on other public budgets. The draft law does not identify the corruption risk. These facts justify me, as rapporteur, to conclude that I can recommend the House press 454 for the commandment to discuss the relevant committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-29-ps2013-027-02-017-026.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I ask the final words - there is no interest from either the Minister or the rapporteur. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering this proposal to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will take the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 65. 177 Members of Parliament registered, for 138, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone please have a motion for a commandment to the next committee to discuss? If this is not the case, I note that the proposal was directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. I'm ending reading this bill first. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Point number 27, which we will continue to discuss, is
