ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u1	100. Proposal by Members Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Pavel Blažek, Jana Černochová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 96/1993 Coll., on Building Savings and State Support for Building Savings and Supplementary Act of the Czech National Council No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended by the Czech National Council Act No. 35/1993 Coll. House print 425/ - first reading We received the Government's position as Parliamentary Press 425/1. I prosit that Mr Petr Fiala present the proposal for the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, the Civil Democratic Party is proposing to amend the provisions of Section 5 (1). 12 Building Savings Act. The objective of the proposed change is very simple. The point is that an act of termination of a contract for building savings of a child should be included in the ordinary matters of property management, for which there is no need for a decision by the court. The change is really very simple. It lies in the insertion of one word, the word "termination" between activities considered to be the routine administration of children's property. The Act on Building Savings considers the establishment and amendment of the contract to be such common issues. The problem that we are dealing with here was the first time in 2014, when, in the meantime, an adult today as a result of the granting of compensation for damage to the state, parents and savings bank was able to compensate the parents for the savings that did not exist at the time of his age. This precedent decision was also the reason for the subsequent procedure of building savings banks, which refuse to pay their balances without the consent of the court despite the mutual consent of the parents, with the fact that they do not want to be co-responsible for the outcome of the rest. Our proposal has the need for courts to decide instead of parents, our regulation has this need to be removed. I would have brought some arguments here as to why the current practice that we did not have legislatively is, but which we can legislatively correct, why it is bad. [[16.40 hours]] The need for the consent of the custody court to end the building savings based on the name of a minor has about three following negative consequences on rights and on free life. Firstly, it interferes with the freedom of decision-making and autonomy of family life and goes against the needs of a child who can best judge a family. There is no reason why they have the child's current needs, which is necessary to rebuild the room, to acquire new equipment for the room in which the child lives and so on -.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u3	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt, but the noise here is really great, and I think it would be considerate of colleagues to deal with their affairs in the lobby and not out loud right here in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u4	Thank you. So there is no reason why we should assume that the court knows this child's needs better than his parents. Moreover, it is no exception that the court's decision lasts a year, in some cases two years. Thus, the court has, or even has to, decide on the functioning of the family, decides when the family is allowed or not to plan to rebuild the place for life, for the study of the child, simply things that logically are to be decided by the parents and should not be decided by the state through the court. The second reason is that the current situation indirectly forces family ownership to change. In order to justify the application to the court, the general wording on the need to invest in the real estate of parents is usually not enough, but the positive expression of the court, as the practice shows, records, for example, that the child has at least a minimum share of the property. But there's no reason for us to decide in this way what the structure of ownership relationships in individual families is. And the third reason, it's not negligible either. This measure, or the current practice, is another bureaucratic burden and can, of course, discourage parents from saving this kind of money, and that is certainly not something society or state should want. Parents who need to terminate a child's contract must make a proposal, attach a copy of the building savings contract, submit a marriage certificate, a copy of the child's birth certificate, and, at the same time, make a written statement on what the child's funds will be used for. All of this shows that the request is accompanied by a relatively large and senseless level of administration and bureaucracy, which is completely unnecessary. And you will recognize that such a bureaucratic burden and, in fact, some a prior mistrust by the state can affect parents, negatively motivate those who want to save regularly, who want to invest in the future of their child and thus feel demotivated in some way. These are the three main reasons that lead us to modify the Building Savings Act by adding one word and enabling us to return to common sense and to normal practice, when parents decide what happens to the money of a minor child who has been saved by parents and does not interfere with the custody courts. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, building savings are a proven, well-used product that motivates people to save their lives and makes their way to living easier. When you look at statistics, almost every sixth contract for building savings in the Czech Republic is based on the name of a minor. From this data, we can estimate that the obligation of the judicial decision to terminate the construction savings essentially affects some 650 thousand contracts. So if, in 650,000 cases, we could help parents and families to make building savings easier to load, I'm sure it's worth it. The citizens' Democratic Party is of the opinion that the amendment, which will include the termination of the agreement on building savings of a child among the normal matters of property management, for which no decision by the court is necessary, is a return to common sense and, above all, is a step that supports the development of the family. From this point of view, I ask you not only to pay due attention to this point precisely because it affects 650 thousand families, but also to support our proposal regardless of party jurisdiction, because it is a sensible proposal that will help many families in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Vlastimil Vozka. Before they do so, I will ask my colleagues not to shout at each other if they have something to deal with, to do so in the foyer. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been mentioned, the present Press 425 is to be amended by Act No. 96/1993 Coll., on Building Savings and State Support for Building Savings in the spirit of the following laws. The proposal, as President Fiala introduced us in the role of the petitioner, amends Section 5, paragraph 12, where the words "or change" extend to "change or termination." By this amendment, it is proposed that legal representatives be allowed to carry out, in addition to the changes made to date, the termination of the construction savings contract without a decision in this case by the court. The Government commented on the House press at its meeting on 8 April 2015. It did not agree with this proposal and the detailed justification is given in the Parliaments of the Press 425/1. The Organizing Committee proposes that the Guarantee Committee for this press be a constitutionally legal committee, and I agree with this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Stanjura is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would merely comment briefly on the government's negative position. First of all, I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago we approved a large majority of votes across a political spectrum similar to that of pension savings, so I assume that we will proceed consistently, and that if we made it possible for one type of State aid saving, we will allow it for this type of State aid saving. This disapproval of the government is not based on any legislative error or non-compliance. The government simply expressed its view that, contrary to the establishment of the contract, sending money, changing the contract, this is all a normal activity, so ending can no longer be regarded as a legal act on a normal matter. I don't think that's the case. If we want to promote family cohesion, and we want to support that, it is very good if parents start saving with the support of the state and their underage children. And we are experiencing absurd situations where parents want to use this money for the benefit of children, and the court has to decide. I know personally cases where your parents just didn't go to court, even though they wanted to use the money for their children because they thought it was defensive. I think, and that number is telling, if we simplify the life of over 600 thousand families, that's a good thing. Surely not everyone who wants to end the contract before the child's age will be, but it could be tens of thousands. And I say, once we've supported that principle, I'm in favour of supporting it here. I know there's one third and so on, it's just a little different, but the construction savings, the product itself doesn't exactly match the name. It's actually a useless savings, i.e. The fact that it's construction is nice, but the purpose can be arbitrary. [[16.50 hours]] The efforts that appear regularly, the introduction of effectiveness, have not received sufficient support, so I feel that such a proposal has not even appeared here in the end, but I think that is reasonable. It is not a political proposal, it is not a classic conflict between the coalition and the opposition, it is just our long-term position and the long-term view that the family should stick together, that the family knows better than the state and than the custody court, how to use the money. So I'd like to ask you to be released for second reading. The negotiations themselves can be very quick. I, as one of the petitioners, propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions for 30 days, because there is really an insertion of one word. We do not want to expand the debate in any way, change the parameters of building savings, we want to deal with this one practical thing. And if we talk very often about the fact that the courts are overloaded, in this case we have a chance to remove potentially a number of decisions so that the custody courts can devote themselves to more important things that are more important for children and for the family as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u9	Thank you, of course I'm registering your proposal, we'll vote it in the end. I will now ask Mr Votava to be the next registered member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to correct my colleague, Mr Stanjura, Mr Stanjura. It's a little different. He referred to the adoption of amendments to supplementary pension savings, but there is no choice or termination of the contract so that the parents could carry out without the consent of the court or the permission of the court. Look at that, colleague. There we gave the opportunity to close supplementary pension savings without consent, i.e. the permission of the court, and to change the contracts, but not to allow legal representatives, parents, to withdraw the funds at a time of underage. What you're saying about that one-third, that's when you reach the age of a savings participant. Basically, building savings already have the option without the permission of the court, so that a legal representative, a parent, can conclude a contract, change a contract. Of course, you want the funds to be collected. I must say that I agree with what the Government has said in its decision or in its opinion on this law. It's for discussion, of course, but they're basically equal now. Therefore, both building savings as regards minors and supplementary pension savings. I merely stress, and once again, the possibility of a legal representative without the permission of the court to conclude a contract and change the contract, not to withdraw the funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u11	Thank you. Mr. Stanjura's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u12	Yes, I apologize for the inaccuracies, Mr. Chairman Votava is right, there is no dispute about that. I have now checked the precise text of the amendment, which, by the way, we have supported, but it must also be said that it is a completely different time of saving. For building savings is a normal period of five years or reaching the target amount or half the amount etc., I think many of us know this, many of us are clients. And I just think that the opinion of the family and parents in this case is just decisive and we don't have to burden the custody courts. That's all. With the supplementary pension savings, we're closing contracts for a very long time, now we've put some age limits on it, but it's never five years, so even the underage participant can't... I'm really sorry about the inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-25-ps2013-036-02-005-100.u13	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. I see no one, therefore I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant is interested in the final word. The rapporteur? Not either. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Before we do, I'm going to sign you all off, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Whoever agrees to order the proposal to be ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 29, to which 147 are registered, for 142, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I'm asking if anyone has a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss. It's not like that. We will therefore now vote on Mr Stanjura's proposal to shorten the committee discussions to 30 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a 30-order vote, 151 in attendance, for 112, against 17. I note that the proposal has been accepted, and I conclude the first reading of this proposal. Before we proceed to the next point, allow me to load the apology of Mrs Matušovská, who apologizes from 17:00 to the end of today's day for personal reasons. We're at a point.
