ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse /house print 444/ - second reading We have interrupted this point in the general debate. We dealt with him on October 6th at the 33rd meeting. I ask that Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, Prime Minister, and Mr Ladislav Velebný, Mr Ladislav Velebný, take the position of the rapporteur at the table for the plaintiff, i.e. for the Government of the Czech Republic, and for the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, as well as the rapporteur for the agricultural committee and the economic committee. I ask if he will be interested after the interruption in order for the Prime Minister to exercise his right of priority and would like to speak, or I will continue the debate immediately if you are not interested, Prime Minister. She is not interested, so we will continue with the general debate to which Mrs Olga Havlová is signed up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I believe that the Food Law is a very important food quality control instrument because it concerns all citizens in this Republic. We often learn about cases where we pay for the consequences of the imperfection of this law. I see two major problems in this law. The first is that the present version of the law concerns only one party to the contractual relationship - it concerns only customers and not suppliers. I consider it important to point out that this very passage of the law changed at the last moment and essentially without explanation. The fact that there are companies on the supplier's side that can use significant market power is quite clear. This results from market research, and everyone knows it. In short, large chains have a similarly large supplier against each other. If we raise the law on one side, the situation will be extremely unfair and we will all pay for it. The second crucial reminder is the specification of prohibited behavior. Repeatedly, experts on this issue say that the wordings in the law are very unfortunate, very vague, nonspecific, and thus exploitable. This amendment can be very hard on our small Czech farmers and processors. According to the Association of Trade and Tourism, large chains will try to avoid the risk of unclear and winding-up wordings of the law and prefer not to buy from small Czech suppliers and look for goods abroad. The share of food from Czech producers and suppliers is between 70 and 80 percent for large chains. Moreover, business chains export Czech products to their foreign branches in the amount of tens of billions of crowns, which are not negligible numbers, and which are not mentioned at all. It may be a plague for the Czech food industry, where in the finals only big suppliers, which are surprisingly not affected by the law, even though they also have significant market power and are in advantage and will have an even greater advantage and the little ones will come to the drum. I will therefore propose two amendments in a detailed debate that address these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u3	Thank you, Mrs Olza Havlová, for her performance. We are now continuing the general debate by Mr Ivan Adamec, Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be more or less brief. I have already spoken on the subject of this bill several times, and I confess that I am not yet clear about what a significant market force is, but that is my problem. I'm gonna have to deal with this. However, I have come to the conclusion that here the will to approve this bill is and that it would be good to try to remove some, I would say, uncertainties that might cause some problems. What I may be more sorry about than how this bill is conceived is that it will, more or less, have no effect on the quality of food, but rather on their price. But it's just a little bit of my point of view, I'm afraid. I have here an amendment which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. It is a House document 2801, which deals with such two matters. One part relates to the so-called framework contracts, where there is a clarification of how this should work, in order not to confuse terms and then there is no need for a misunderstanding in the control of state authorities. The second point concerns sanctions, because I think sanctions are not meant to be winding up, but sanctions are supposed to be educational and sometimes, even quite encouraging, so there is an adjustment to sanctions, I would say, according to the Italian model, where I think this might be acceptable, but of course I will leave it up to you. So I will sign up in a detailed debate, and I would like to read this Amendment 2801 with permission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u5	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Mrs Věra Kovářová will now appear, Mr Petr Bendl will be ready. My colleague, it's your turn. [[Messenger. The blacksmith is surprised.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u6	Thank you for waiting. Ladies and gentlemen, I am returning to my favorite topic, why, in the end, suppliers fell out of the government's proposal, whose regulation of the draft prepared by the Office for the Protection of Competition contained. In the past, I have asked this question here, but I have not received a satisfactory answer. Thanks to the diligent reading of the publication entitled Thirteenth Chambers of Andrej Babiš by Mr. Koláček, who came out last year, I finished the answers myself. [[It shall show the publication concerned.]] As Minister of Finance, who is in the habit of showing various books, I recommend this reading, it is available in the local library. Let me quote: In the 20 years of the existence of Agrofert, its owner will gradually create a perfect system aptly marked by the terms of the field or from the fork to the fork. In addition to agrochemistry, Babiš operates a wide range of agricultural holdings within Agrofert, including related machinery, up to food production. He also became a monopoly big baker, especially in the west and middle of Slovakia, as we read in the same daybook from Gabriel Beer's pen, according to which he is - I quote: Babiš knows the team that food businesses buy more expensive. Feel free to give a higher price, because it will repay the monopoly of large-scale production of Niektorých food. [[15.30 hours]] Systematically, it builds and presets concentrated poľnohospodársky business. Of course, I apologize for Slovak, and I hope my colleague Korte doesn't want an interpreter. And so on and so forth. Dear colleagues, I understand now why the government proposal looks like it does. Now I understand why this government leaves suppliers alone. Let's face it, that's how he leaves his Vice-President alone. But what I don't understand is why coalition partners are calmly looking at this privatisation of lawmaking. By the way, for those who would like to verify that quote, it's page 44 to the left downstairs. Any interested parties can also stop at my desk, page 44 is available for inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Mr Petr Bendl will now appear, Mr František Laudát will be prepared. We are still in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, it's actually pretty smiling. Coalition MPs are sitting here waiting to discuss the opposition here, and then they're voting anyway. We do not need an interpreter, regardless of the fact that we would not find an interpreter for Mr. Vice-President Babiš - with all due respect - in the Czech Republic, but I did not want to say that. I think, after trying to enter private restaurants and forbid people who can or cannot do there, I mean smoking ban, after trying this socialist government to organise tourism and enter relations between insurance companies and travel agencies, after trying to interfere with opening hours of various establishments, shops and the like, it comes, or we already have a second reading of the law on the table, which, in turn, tries to organise a relationship between private companies and tells them - nothing about quality, I send to those of you who might feel that it concerns food and the like and trying to improve the sales of food in the Czech Republic, there is not a word about it. It is simply an attempt to enter producers, producers, sellers, and by the state to organize to them what they should or should not agree on the maturity of invoices, what trade relations they should have between them. This is socialism, which I understand is that the Prime Minister, as a representative of the petitioner here, is defending, in a way, I did not expect anything from this government. I don't know if when the law applies, and you're all looking forward to it in the coalition, whether people appreciate it or not. I am convinced that they do not appreciate it, that the way it is designed, it really means that the big guys will manage, those chains, rather than going through all the bureaucracy you're running on them by this law, they will simply solve it, that the products will come from somewhere else, and it will actually turn out negatively especially for the small ones that everyone bragged about before the election, how terribly we want to help them. In the finals and in this law, you say that you don't care much about the little ones. There's a lot of exceptions for the big guys. They're not really gonna be there at all. I think the big bill will work out. The UOHS, it won't worry, as we heard the head of the Office for Competition Protection, they can't handle it anymore, so some ministry has to do it, dozens of other officials who will go to check whether the invoice's due and if the contracts between the suppliers and the customers are in line with what the State wants. Sometimes someone gets a bottler so that eventually they'll be forced to quit, which, after all, doesn't bother the big guys. And this government, besides trying to come up with the socialist organization of this country, may even applaud the fact that the little ones disappear, because it's said that they're all crooks and steals, or most of them. I will not speak for long because I have discussed the bill here on both the committee and at the House meeting at first reading. I will only use this option and make a motion to reject this law when we discuss it at the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u9	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. The rapporteur has certainly noted the procedural proposal to be put to the vote at the beginning of the third reading. We are continuing the debate by Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I'd just like to repeat, and I'm already intrusive with that, my question. We were informed, even it took place publicly, that the author of the law, which was a lawyer of the Office for the Protection of Competition, submitted a proposal or drafted a proposal where the relations were balanced. I asked the Prime Minister twice for an economic committee and wanted a short answer at which stage and who took out one side of the market power, why there are no sellers and suppliers. I didn't get an answer. The Prime Minister always talked about something else. So I ask you again, Prime Minister, who and when and why took out one side of market relations. I feel like you're getting quite involved with different lobbyist associations in a weird way, and I really don't like it, and you're interfering with market relationships, the consequences of your interventions, I just feel like you're not even thinking. I'm very worried about that. So I'd like a brief answer as to why you took out one of those market parties. You'll have a chance to make this right. I will then apply to the proposed amendment, where I return the balance of competition in some way, because it simply doesn't matter whether the seller has the market power, that is, what you have in mind, the large chain of trade, or are suppliers, there are a number of companies that have significantly greater market power than - I don't know how many chains there are, in any case, at least five or more of them are operating in each district, so there is competition there. You're just trying to help a certain segment of the food market here in order to have significantly better conditions, and I really consider it unfair interference with competition. So I'd like a brief answer. I was trying because I thought the best thing to do was to take over and process the proposal based on what it was originally, unfortunately, all the tracks were probably wiped out, and I couldn't make it from the official sources to what the original design sounded like and who it disappeared from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u11	I thank Mr František Laudát. Written applications have been exhausted. Mr Herbert Pavera, still in the general debate, is reporting from the seat now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I would only follow up on Mr František Laudát, who said that the other party or the other party of the Contracting Parties had lost the law on significant market power, that is an important supplier. I have a magazine here from 2013 A significant market power, an information sheet from the Competition Authority, where doktor Hynek Brom, the first Vice-President of the Competition Authority, states that the amendment should be addressed to both parties. And I'd take the liberty of reading part of that text. The first Vice-President writes: "One of the fundamental changes in the concept of the current regulation of significant market power is the change in the concept of the responsible entity. The proposal envisages that if the proposed amendment is adopted, it will not only be the customer but also the supplier who is responsible for the misuse of significant market power. The Authority considers that, in some specific business relationships, both the weaker party and the customer may be, in the case of large multinational companies" - which were mentioned here a short time ago. Furthermore, the first Vice-President here writes in his article: "The new proposed change involves maintaining the so-called the absolute concept of a significant market power, which protects only the weaker party and gives it the possibility of equality of arms not only in the negotiation of contractual terms but also throughout the entire contractual relationship between the parties concerned.' And the last part of his text, which I will read: "The problem with significant market power is not only the food sales sector, but also other sectors that deal with similar conditions as consumers or food suppliers. It goes for example. on the supply of consumer goods to any network of the chain of commerce or e.g. on the sale of networks of medicines and medical aids. In the light of the above, the Authority, in cooperation with other public authorities, is preparing an analysis of the whole situation and a proposal for a comprehensive regulation not only relating to the food sector but also capable of including other areas where the status of one Contracting Party is abused and de facto the fulfilment of the concept of abuse of significant market power." I hope that's what Mr. First Vice-President meant, and unfortunately, it's from autumn 29. 11. 2013. What I would like to return to and what I would also like to say here in today's speech is that, of course, I welcome the maturity of invoices within 30 days. Unfortunately, I regret that this is only for food or agricultural products. This is justified by the fact that food products have a low shelf life, some of them have only a few days, some of them have a few weeks, but some of them have several years when they are needed in a can. The validity of invoices would not have to be de facto or 30 days. However, what struck me at the agricultural committee, which was attended by both the Prime Minister and the first Vice-President of the Office for the Protection of Competition, was when I asked why the maturity of invoices 30 days is not in other areas of the Czech economy and services, and I just pointed out that in the area of construction, where the significant market power is the Czech State, the maturity of invoices is 180 days, so he replied to my surprise that companies want it. Strange that companies want the maturity of invoices 180 days. I think it would be good for everyone if there was a single maturity of invoices in our state. It would certainly help business in the Czech Republic to balance relationships and to avoid artificial debt and to avoid the need for money in the air, because one company owes the other and, of course, the problem is transferred from one company to another, then to the third, and what happens, you probably all know - that some companies change names, change owners so they don't have to pay back, and eventually both the state, municipalities, cities, and self-employed employees will pay for it. I believe that perhaps in the next phase you will return to these problems, although I would like to be, as Mr Bendl suggests, that the law should not be approved at all, or the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u13	I thank Mr Herbert Paver. I have two Members, Mr Petr Bendl with a factual remark, followed by Mr Martin Novotný with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u14	Thank you. I will also ask a question, because I assume that the Prime Minister will speak before the final word so that it is possible to discuss at least a little about this bill, which is not irrelevant. I would ask the Prime Minister a question. If you want the maturity of invoices in the area of food or agricultural production to be 30 days, what will you do to ensure that the state also has the maturity of invoices within 30 days when you feel you have to tell those food sector entities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u15	I thank Mr Bendl for his time on the point of fact and now Mr Martin Novotný, then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u16	Good afternoon. Colleagues and colleagues, in connection with the law on significant market power, one of such major spells, which is mentioned together with this law, is the protection of small food producers who are discriminated against by the large chain. Personally, I would like to make a note that I believe that the right moment in this House to do something for small food producers, their smaller retailers, is not the law on significant market power, but it is a discussion about the conditions under which people entering or small-scale production are involved in this segment of business, what are their entry conditions into business, what are their administrative burdens at the start of their business, what is their tax burden, and especially what very often, compared to abroad, we place unprecedented demands on them in the field of various checks, sanitary regulations, etc. What distinguishes the Czech Republic from many Western countries full of various small shops, where different producers charge their specialties of often regional origin, is not what the state of our hypermarkets is, but how much more difficult any new entrepreneur in this market can enter at all. I have experienced, for example, in a number of Anglo-Saxon countries, where the condition of market entry is much more liberal, the entry costs of technology, the fulfilment of various hygiene standards and everything possible are much lower, and then the market in those countries is full of hypermarkets that are very similar to ours, but a lot of small shops, small facilities - we know it from all over Western Europe. It's also a question of why we don't have as many small bakeries as elsewhere, why the offer is so much poorer and focused only on the big ones. It's about what the market entry conditions are, what the conditions are for a small businessman, a small businessman. When we start talking about this in this House, I will believe that the effort to help small producers and small entrepreneurs is really meant. But I personally consider the law on significant market power to be more of a hidden aid to the big players.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u17	I thank Mr Martin Novotný. Now, with proper application, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u18	Thank you for the floor. If I am following this debate, so far none of those who support the law has come forward to either answer questions or dispel concerns, and I hope that this will happen before the Prime Minister's final word. I am returning to our debate at first reading, when I expressed the two concerns that we share, that the effect of the law will be contrary to what the government expects. The government is saying and probably sincerely believes that the bill will help small Czech suppliers in particular. But we're afraid it won't be. At the same time, the government says, at least some of the government's Members here at first reading said that by tightening the conditions for the business chains, the price would be reduced. I've already said here that economic reasoning is quite surprising. I'm gonna raise somebody's costs, and I'm assuming he's gonna lower the price. So the effect could be double. First of all, there's going to be an increase in food prices, because the costs are projected, and they're going to reflect on someone. And most of the time, it's like they're going to project to the client, to the customer. A similar debate awaits us at point 5, where it is also said that banks will have increased costs - and who will pay them? [[15.50 hours]] The second concern that exists and that has not yet been refuted, especially in border areas, where there are large transport costs, where it may happen that the chains will not be purchased from Czech suppliers, but from foreign suppliers, where such a law may not apply, or pay in a milder form. I think that's a serious concern. We believe that they can be justified, and we have not heard any relevant reason and reason why this will not be the case. Basically, the petitioners say all the time that they are discussing this bill that the existing law does not work. We have heard here that two fines have been granted on the basis of this applicable law and that they are promising from the new bill that it will work better. In particular, this is the promise of the Office for the Protection of Competition. But if he hasn't been able to apply it so far, the idea that by simply changing the paragraphs, the office will suddenly be able to apply it and change something fundamental in the market is wrong. The thing we discussed at first reading is the proposed sanctions, which seem disproportionate to us, sometimes to be liquidated. Ten percent of the turnover, which can really be very high in the order of billions. When we recall a rather detailed debate in the first reading, it is true that almost every paragraph has the support of a foreign pattern. But I told you, as a translator, he took the strictest terms of every bill and mixed it together. You just can't find a similar bill. It's true that this part is from here, this part is from here, something from Italy, something from Slovakia, but I think the resulting shape is wrong. It will not lead to the expected goals and the effect may be exactly the opposite. Some colleagues and colleagues talked about it today. And I can't shake the impression that the government in the natural conflict between suppliers and customers - and it's logical, each of them has an interest in the best possible conditions, the supplier wants the highest price, the customer the lowest possible - only one side. There are undoubtedly suppliers who have a very high market share. They're not going to do that. I know there have been amendments, and I think they're the right ones to balance the position. I also know, in the original bill, when he entered the legislative process, there were both sides of the natural conflict. And I'm not criticizing it, it's perfectly natural that everyone defends their interests. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what were the reasons behind the withdrawal of the suppliers from the original bill, which was intended to apply both to customers and suppliers. I don't understand that, and that's what I'm saying, that the government, or the parliamentary majority, whether we're talking in the Senate, instead of creating a level playing field for everyone, and that if she wants to, she'll stake the field, but treat everyone fairly. So here she suddenly chose one side that was rooting for the legislative instruments, and the other side that she actually labeled by being the wrong side. So the government chose, I don't know, on what basis, and I'm very interested in why the original bill of duty for suppliers fell out. I really can't think of any logical reason, but I may still be able to find out in the debate. And in this, I would sum up the fundamental reservations on this bill. The government's pretending it's gonna help something. I'd like to know, and I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if he listens to me...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u19	I'll ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u20	In what way does the government imagine that it will assess the effect of this law. I respect that there is no government majority here, so sooner or later the bill will probably be passed, it will be put to life. Whether it's January or February or March next year is not that important. But I wonder on what criteria the government will evaluate the functioning of the law. What he'll count. Total sales, total sales from Czech suppliers, sales from Czech suppliers in the sector of small entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs, large entrepreneurs? Or will it just be based on the amount of fines the Office for Competition grants, and, if possible, if we want to look at fines so final? Just today I read that the highest fine in the history of the UOHS, and others very much praised how hard it hit against the Czechs. [[unintelligible]] So the court canceled today and stated that the procedure of the contracting authority was in accordance with the law. It seems to me to be a big misstep and a big mistake when the record fine granted by the UOHS is abolished by the court and is not returned for renegotiation. It is stated that the contracting authority has acted under the law. So what kind of sanctions? How come the highest and record sanctions? So, Prime Minister, on what criteria do you want to evaluate the functioning of the law? So that we can decide in a year or two whether the opposition's concerns have been fulfilled or, on the contrary, optimistic government forecasts will be fulfilled and it will not happen that there will be a price increase or a share of Czech suppliers in chains. I would be quite interested, because otherwise we will all be - and I point out, notice, we all, that means both sides of the dispute - based only on our opinions, on our assumptions, on some scenarios, but we won't be able to measure it. I think it would be important to know one, two, three criteria on which we can tell ourselves in a year or two whether the bill has benefited or benefited someone, and to base it on something. I don't think it should be the number of fines granted, and I'm not even saying after today's decision, and if so, let's talk about final fines, because that makes sense. Until the trial is over, that means there is a litigation, so we can always consider the dispute to be incomplete and there is an equal chance that both the Office for Competition Protection and, where appropriate, the contracting authority will be right. In this case, the person who, in the view of the UOHS, would abuse his significant market power. So I've asked about three or four questions in total, and I believe I'll get some answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Have a good afternoon, my dear colleagues. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the Prime Minister if he's interested in final words. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u22	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I am indeed very happy for the opportunity of power here repeatedly during all the discussions, whether at the first reading which we have interrupted several times, and at the second reading which we have also interrupted, so that I may therefore be able to speak and respond to the questions that are being raised here during the debate. I think that even today's debate, the general part of today's debate, is just ahead of us, so I will certainly listen with interest to the detailed part of the debate, so the general part of the debate has shown that there are two fundamentally different views on whether or not there is a law on significant market power at all. When I looked at today's overall list of laws that lie here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and that list is respectable, indeed, there is also a proposal that proposes to repeal the law on significant market power, and when you look at the list of petitioners, I think that he is not too different from those Members and Members who have spoken here in the debate and criticised the government amendment. And here I think that - I feel like we don't understand each other in the long run, because the criticism that is directed towards the government amendment is also aimed at regulation as such. Thus, skeptical negative effects are expected from the government amendment, but they did not appear when the original bill was approved. And I have a feeling that we can hardly find a consensus here in the form of a compromise, as is done in the Chamber of Deputies, that it will be said fine, well, we will support some amendments and we will get support for the bill. It turns out that there really is a significant part of Members who do not agree that such a type of regulation should be here in the Czech Republic, and therefore it does not provide us with the possibility of discussing amendments in principle, because even if we accept some, I do not think that this will change the fundamentally negative attitude of those who have opposed the law on significant market power. This is confirmed by the fact that there is an amendment that proposes that the law be abolished completely. And after all, it's not the first effort. Even in the previous term of the Chamber of Deputies, I believe there was an attempt to abolish the law itself. [[16.00 hours]] Frequent questions that are repeatedly falling concern the bilaterality that has been discussed within the framework of legislation. I note that there is no bilaterality in this existing law. This means that there is no change in this regard compared to the original bill. The bilaterality was discussed in the commentary procedure. As part of the comment procedure, arguments were made both for and against mutuality. And as part of the discussion of this bill against the government, the principle of mutuality was abandoned, and the government remained on the original system as represented by the law on significant market power, which is now in force. This means that it regulates customer behaviour, does not regulate supplier behaviour. So to change, virtually. to the fact that mutuality was not part of the amendment, so the decision took place when the bill was negotiated with the Government of the Czech Republic, which, from the point of view of its constitutional competence, has the right to approve the bill and to submit it to the Chamber of Deputies. With regard to the criteria by which we will evaluate success or failure. Very often there is a warning about the price of food, very often there is a warning about the reduction of the share of Czech food in chains, but I have not heard any figures that relate to the past about five years, so whether there has been an increase in food over the last five years or whether there has been a reduction in the share of Czech food over the last five years due to the fact that we have even introduced this legislative regulation. Because the law has been going on here for a few years, and I haven't seen any numbers here, no statistics that say that as a result of this regulation, food has become more expensive or that there has been a reduction in the proportion of domestic food sold in chains. I think that the issue of customer behaviour to suppliers is certainly a measurable effect that we can work with for the future. I will consider the amendment to be a success if it really comes to an end the incorrect practices and incorrect practices that occur. As an example I can add, and of course it is one of the things that has already been addressed or is addressed by the Office for the Protection of Competition, when someone decides to celebrate their birthday as a customer, so I don't know if it's quite right if they want the supplier to contribute to it. The same thing when someone wants the supplier to pay for some of the activities that should normally be paid by the customer. There is simply an effort to push the rules, push the procedures that apply between suppliers and customers today, in favour of the one who has significant market power, and that, according to the government's belief, is the customer in terms of the structure of customers today, as it has been created on our market today. So here I think that certainly the measure that we can judge and that we can assess the success of the law is not a question of the number of fines, it is not a question of the number of administrative proceedings initiated, but it is a question of improving the quality of the supplier-customer relations. It is also a question of supply for consumers. It is also a question of the ability of food producers in our territory, farmers, to sell their production through these wholesale networks under conditions that allow them to survive economically in the long term. I really want to reject the kind of haunting that appears here permanently, that this amendment will mean increasing or crowding domestic suppliers. I do not think that the changes it brings justify such a thing, precisely because it is a novel. It is not a new law, it is not a new regulation, it is a legislative refinement of regulation, which has been working here for several years on our market. And it has already contributed in several specific examples to the fact that suppliers have started to treat their customers differently. They must now be careful of their behavior in certain areas, and some practices and practices have already proved unacceptable under the law in force. So much for the debate that was still going on today in the context of the general debate at second reading. I am, of course, prepared to comment subsequently on all the amendments tabled in the third reading. I will undoubtedly also request the opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition to express its views on all these amendments. I shall inform the Chamber of Deputies of this opinion to the Office for the Protection of Competition. I will undoubtedly also address competent ministries, such as the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Industry and Trade, to comment on the amendments submitted, and then, on the basis of the opinions of the expert departments concerned, as a representative of the petitioner, I will express my opinion on the proposals made before voting on them. However, I do not think that the discussion of the individual amendments can lead to any reconciliation between the two groups that have formed here, one of which therefore completely rejects regulation and the other believes that regulation should remain, and is prepared to negotiate or vote on the legislative refinement of the existing regulation, which concerns significant market forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u23	Thank you. I'm registering two applications with priority rights. With the first, please, Mr Laudát. After that, Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u24	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Prime Minister, if it were April 1st, I would understand. Because it's April, as we know. You guys are talking about something here, and I've asked a perfectly clear question that you could have said. Your government was deceiving people, or your coalition parties were deceiving people when they were yelling during election campaigns, that everything would just be transparent, everything would be clear, you'd spin corruption. What's the reality? Your officers are hiding, and there's no way to access the original material. You're not gonna say who's at what stage and why, and we've been talking about this novel for, like, six months now. A brief answer is enough! If you behave like this, then don't be surprised that the House is paralyzed because it feels like you're actually having fun. Of course, you have 118 mandates with some parties that are falling apart here, so you have other supporters. Then there's a pseudoposition on the left at some points - so I just don't know what it is you're doing here. Then don't be surprised that you've just been rolling in front of you for over 200 suggestions. Just to clarify, before she came here, if I'm not mistaken, this amendment to the law, we made a proposal with Kalousek, an amendment to the law that repeals this law on significant market power. I don't know if my colleague Kalousek would perform so dramatically here, so your statement that the same people, that's 50 percent, 50-50, because I think Kalousek didn't perform too many times around significant market power. I don't remember, since May, how many times, maybe once, twice, maybe at all, I don't know now, you've caught me by this deceptive answer or by this deceptive rhetorical question. It's not true what you're saying here, because I've said several times that I can imagine there's going to be a special part in the competition law. Apparently, even the presidents of the law don't know that the only thing in the past was useful to your friend's entire law, as I understand it, was the due date. But she is already from the mandatory transposition of the European directive elsewhere, so it concerns other segments, I think it is universal, now I am not sure, but I think it is. So it's already somewhere else. And, of course, I was a translator sometime three years ago of the law that was supposed to cancel it. The reason at that time was indeed a 30-day maturity period. I think that the UOHS as an administrative office was not too much in a way to interfere in the form that interferes with the legislative process. He could be encouraging that something doesn't work, that he has it somewhere, but if you ask him today, Mr. Rafaj from social democracy, or exsocial democracy, I don't know what he has, suspended, interrupted or terminated membership. [[16.10 hours]] I find it extremely unfortunate. It's either an independent body, but to judge the proposals, I don't know, it's kind of... There should be a colleague, Mr Mládek, as far as I know, that belongs to competition matters, Mr Jurečka should be here, but it's not a biodiesel, so he doesn't care, he doesn't seem to be here to make it work. I don't know, I'm really very embarrassed by your behavior, your appearance. If you were to answer clear questions, we don't roll 220 or how many different amendments to the law in front of us, we might have 20, but if you do that, I'm afraid the House may collapse next year. And then you will deal with it as you are unable to respond to any phenomena with some tolerance in society, etc., so you will deal with it by bending democracy, violating parliamentary practices, etc. This is the same as the Minister of Finance did on yesterday's budget committee, when it was too much for your coalition MPs. Some kept quiet and grabbed their heads, it was directly from your side, and twisted their heads as possible, from the other coalition side, KDU, there was a simple truth. Please prepare for all the ministers too, Prime Minister, for those points, answer the clear questions clearly, and then you will not bring into the House this chaos that is here. It's the coalition party's fault. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u25	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Stanjura's microphone. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u26	Thank you for the floor. Well, first of all, I'd like to agree with the Prime Minister. I think it is a legitimate political conflict about whether or not the law is necessary, and then about the level at which the debate is about the individual sections, the proposed measures, or the evaluation. And I must appreciate that the situation in the explanatory report is quite truthfully described. I quote this because this government likes to refer very much to European law, to the European Union, but when it does not suit it, it does not continue to do so or does not draw attention to it. But here in the explanatory memorandum it is correct to say: "Law No. 143/2001 Coll., on competition protection and amending certain laws, as amended' - which is our Czech law, but here it was - "even the EU regulation on competition protection contained in Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union only recognizes two basic types of infringement of competition law - prohibited agreements and abuse of a dominant position'. So it is not true that we, the opponents of this law, do not want any regulation. We're just saying that these are really when I say this in quotes, economic crimes that are distorting market conditions, and these are prohibited, or cartel agreements and abuse of dominant position on the market. And that's what I assume we're in agreement with. We are just saying that we, who do not like this instrument, are a special instrument that goes beyond what the European Union says, identifies these two very serious violations against market rules. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum states, and truthfully, that none of the largest trade chains has a significantly larger market share, and it is therefore not possible to demonstrate abuse of a dominant position because it does not have a market share. And obviously we agree that there is a relatively sharp competitive struggle, so there are no forbidden or cartel agreements. This means from the point of view of European legislation - everything works as it should. There can be no abuse of a dominant position on the market because none of these chains have such a dominant position - but beware! Some of the suppliers have it that way. In some commodities some selected suppliers, very successful, I will not promote them here, they have a dominant position on the market. At the same time, and that is also true, it does not occur, apparently, I cannot know it at 100%, but this would certainly be dealt with by the Office for the Protection of Competition under the excellent leadership of the Social Democrat, so apparently there are no prohibited or cartel agreements. Even from the nature of the sharp competition for the customer. And Prime Minister, I won't use words as sharp as my previous speaker, but he didn't understand, he didn't understand, he avoided answering my question, and he looked like he was answering it. The Prime Minister taught me, I knew it, but repeating it will never hurt that the government has the constitutional right to submit a bill in which it sees fit. Well, that's a perfectly true statement, and no one, not even I, didn't question it. I asked the question, when at the beginning of this legislative proposal were both parties, customers and suppliers, why the government, and it has every right to do so, in which we are really in agreement, launched the supplier. The Prime Minister's answer is 'cause we released them. Well, you said there were arguments for and against, so maybe you could tell us some of them and tell us why for you, who were so serious, that in your decision you chose that one-sided legislative act, not two-sided. And I really didn't doubt that the government couldn't do that. She can do it and she did it. No offense. But the translator himself, when he processed it, suggested both sides. Once again, the Prime Minister is right - in the course of the ordinary legislative process, in the commentary procedure, but even if it was not in the commentary procedure, the government can simply change that at its meeting. We're really in agreement. I'm asking if it's not a secret, why. I would really like that answer, we will still have a detailed debate. My previous speaker correctly mentioned that he was quite unhappy, and it is not the only case when the person who is actually supposed to carry out the law and execute it will write it down. I would like to know how much the competition authority's share was, because from unofficial information, I believe it was substantial. That it was not so that someone wrote it and the UOHS gave it something in the commentary process, but that it was written in Brno. Many top officials of this office have been directly involved in the creation of this law. And I'm not saying that it's not possible, I'm just saying that it's unfortunate, because if we did that in other areas of legislation, it doesn't work that way that the group or office that the law applies to it is writing it. We have an exception. Some prosecutors have written a state's attorney's bill, but he, I assume, will not be adopted by the Chamber of Deputies in that form, and it is one of the serious reasons against the bill. The whole debate in that first reading was based on an opinion, I would say common, both sides of the substantive dispute, that the existing law does not work, which is why it is regulated. And the Prime Minister says, relax, nothing's happened since the law worked. Well, it either works or it doesn't. If it works, we don't have to change it, and then the Prime Minister is right that nothing significant has happened. However, I would also need, since we say the opposition has numbers, so let the government have numbers, no doubt it has more options than the opposition. If it is so bad so far, how many suppliers have ended their business due to unfair customer practices. I'd be quite interested. The Prime Minister also said that there are already several cases based on the law already in force, that the strings changed their behavior and were forced to change behavior. I'd like at least one particular case, so we don't talk in general. The law is valid, it works, it doesn't work, and under this law something has already improved. So let's just say one example where it's improved. The Prime Minister avoided answering the question of the sanctions. I understand that when there is a law that imposes obligations, it should be automatic, not always so, so is the possibility of enforcement and, where appropriate, sanctioning when someone does not comply with legal obligations. I just pointed out, and I didn't say there shouldn't be any sanctions, just that they seem disproportionately big to me. And especially at the moment when smaller companies are merging into a chain, it can turn out really hard if we come out of it. And there can be no answer: Don't worry, that authority will never apply the highest possible penalty. [[16.20 hours]] One last comment on the unfair practices. I have experience from both sides, customers and suppliers. It says in the explanatory memorandum that sometimes those customers carry a business risk to the supplier. Doesn't the state do that in many other cases? When does the reasonable risk of the delivery not being in time, in quality, etc. transfer to the supplier? That's totally standard. Any reasonable investor or customer tries to avoid risks in a contractual relationship and, where possible, risks that cannot be completely avoided, e.g. delivery of the goods to the place, transferring to the supplier. And on the other hand, the suppliers are trying to pass the risk on to the customers. I'm saying it's perfectly legitimate. But again, the government only identifies one side of the dispute between customers and suppliers in the explanatory memorandum. And then it's just a remark that seems more like a smile or a light one. One of the unfair practices very often mentioned by the advocate of this bill is that it is paid for placing on the shelves - shelves etc. All right, but when you go to sports - many of us were at the World Hockey Championship in Prague this year - are all tickets equally expensive? Or are you paying more money for the better places? Isn't that an unfair practice? How is that possible? And it's common in many other cities. From the statistics available to us, both the government and us, we know that in those popular events where the leaflets are, and customers are logically looking to buy something cheaper, up to 50 percent of the volume will be sold, up to 50 percent of the sales. And this is a standard marketing event that supports the sale of a particular product. But most importantly, everyone makes the contract freely. Don't tell me cases I'm gonna make a deal I don't want to make. I really don't understand. I'm not talking about one-sided change in the terms of the contract, that's another case, let's talk about it, but let's talk about it in the general law so that it applies to everyone, not just for food, that someone can deliberately change the terms of the contract, e.g. unilaterally. It's okay. But I'm saying it's supposed to be a general rule, not a special one. But otherwise, it's not just arguments, it's just the impression that something like this is happening. So I'm confirming the idea dispute about whether or not to do so, and I'm not the petitioner of the bill for annulment. But if we were to discuss it, I don't know when you're gonna let us have it, so I'm gonna vote in favour of the law, and I'm gonna say that responsibly. It is precisely because I think that the instruments they call European legislation are sufficient. And the government itself admits that it cannot use these instruments because there is no such thing as cartel agreements and abuse of dominant position on the market in the Czech Republic. You also know that unlike other Western European countries, this market is highly competitive in our country, and none of these chains are as dominant as in some other countries, e.g. in Great Britain etc. And the government has decided to root for one party in this eternal dispute between customers and suppliers. That doesn't seem fair. And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u27	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. I am opening a general debate, in which I note Mr Urban's factual remark. [[Unagreeable noise in plenary.]] Excuse me, a detailed debate and a factual remark from Mr Urban. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u28	Thank you for the floor. I don't know if I can fit in the area of the Rules of Procedure, if it's a detailed debate... [[Notes off the microphone from the right.]] If František Laudát says I can't fit, I'll probably fit, or I'll have to fit. [[with a smile]] Call me if you like, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u29	You've got two minutes and you're running.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u30	It's okay, I'll make it. You know, I'm still weird about the debates we're having here - like Ota Černý said, I repeat: what does a citizen say? It's weird to me why, for example, in a supermarket I'm not going to name, it costs the same yogurt three times more than in some small Czech store. I just can't explain it. And it is strange to me why the same goods in the Czech Republic are more expensive than in Germany or France. It is strange to me why the same-looking goods in the Czech Republic are different from the goods that are in France or Germany, and it is justified by the fact that we have other tastes here in the east. So a lot of things are just weird to me. And on this occasion, in the debate, I always think about it, and I would look for a way to verify it somehow. Or are we so weird we're gonna let ourselves jump on the head here in the Czech Republic? Of course, I don't envy the profits or the dividends, that's just business, that's business as much as anybody else. However, it seems to me that all the rules in the Czech Republic are simply not respected. And unfortunately, the one who's supposed to decide is a customer, it's probably so hard for him that it's so easy to decide in some short time. So let's try to answer the questions we're weird about. And I think it's weird for you, on the right or on the left. So if this helps anything, I don't know, maybe, maybe not. Thanks for the word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u31	Thank you, and with another factual request, Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u32	That is a factual reminder of my colleague's performance, which I certainly have the right to. I agree with Mr Urban. It's strange to me, too, or suspicious, as we say in the region. But the cases you've named, yes, if there's a price too high, there may be a problem on the customer side. But the other cases, worse quality than the same product in Germany - is it on the side of customers or suppliers? I think the answer is simple - on the side of suppliers. That's why we're saying that if you want to regulate it, then answer us why only one side. Because I agree with you. What you said is really weird. But I have more faith in that citizen. If he finds out that yogurt is three times more expensive in one store than in another, he'll buy it once. Don't worry that people wouldn't pass on the information. They'll pass it on. It's worse with the quality. They can hardly measure the composition, whether there's meat or not... Unless he throws it to the dog, and if he doesn't eat it, he finds out there's probably not much meat in there. But it's probably not an entirely effective method of buying sausage, I admit. And you're trying to get into this natural dispute, you're rooting for one side, and you're giving the other yellow card, and you're saying, "It's all your fault." And those cases that Mr Urban has appointed, I agree with them, show that there are problems on both sides. And I'm not gonna say that one of them is clean and the other is dirty and that one or the other is responsible for everything. On both sides they are excellent, mediocre and below average. bezesporu. And what we blame, and that is the dispute, why the government - perhaps the Prime Minister will answer me - has decided, and has the right to, to root only for one side of the dispute. That's all. Well, I don't think it's gonna do any good. How will the law on significant market power improve the quality of the products offered? Well, I'd really like to know. How do they lower prices? That's what I'd like to know. So try to answer me simply when we accept the bill, how the quality will increase and how the price will increase. [[- Mr. Congressman...]] Thank you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u33	Thank you. Please another de facto Mr Plzák. Mr Plzák, then Mr Laudát. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u34	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I'll pick it up. I was Stanjura by the fact that he considers the relationship between the supplier and the customer unfair in this case that the government is partying one of those parties here. I'll remind you of an example from the past, and I hope I can fit in two minutes. If you remember, it wasn't, there was some sort of Julínkův health reform. The reform could have created independent insurance companies, their founders could have had their medical facilities, there would have been no price lists of performances, it would have been purely on agreement or contractual relationship between the insurance undertaking and the contractual facility, what contractual terms they agree. Of course, those small or smaller doctors would be exposed to an entirely unequal position if this were the case, because the insurance company, which was still supposed to have its own medical facility, would give better conditions to its medical facility, and the conditions it would offer to others would be such that they would say take, do not take and go out of the market. And otherwise, getting to public health insurance funds other than those insurance companies, it really didn't work. And to make it perfect, it was forbidden at that time to bring together smaller medical facilities and negotiate completely. All I'm saying is that in this case, you sided with one side as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u35	Thank you. I beg the de facto Mr Laudát. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u36	Only to the foreman. First of all, he was off the subject, you should have cut him off, Madam President. That's what the citizens have chosen. Speak of the goat. I don't know where else we're gonna get. I promised the Sklenák I wouldn't hold him up so the Prime Minister could leave. However, Milan Urban. I totally agree with him. He shouldn't ask. If the government were to make the same efforts to come up with a solid law on food quality, so that the raspberry wouldn't be made from grease and the like, we'd get somewhere. But what do we have here? Restricting sales times over 200 meters. We have significant market power here, where one segment is being pulled out, one group around one chamber. Let's talk. And in this way, the market is crooked, crooked by democracy. So the food won't be better. They even threaten to get worse. I imagine someone here will push, the chains will shrink in our country, and then just some other Andrej, or this Andrej will buy the last one and determine what the nation will do for a living. I feel like we had this place before 1989, sort of thing. Quality doesn't improve, it can get worse or stay the same in a better case. If you had finally started the same tough efforts, my dear government, to do something for the citizens, instead of spying on them, bullying them, and making databases for everything, you would have done better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u37	Thank you. Mr Kalousek's mike, please, in fact. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. A colleague of Dr. Plzák introduced us to a very fitting parable. I'd like to follow in his footsteps and say something equally possible on the subject. When I was still in Bechyně school, there was a case like this. There were three hats lost in the locker room, two knitted and one canvas with a label. [[Cheer up on the right.]] And go check it out today, they have a nice garden around the school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u39	I'd like another mike with the facts, and this is Mr. Bendl. prosit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u40	I don't have anything funny. What could be funnier than hats and a nice garden around. Maybe it'd be a better debate on the subject. I want to reiterate that in this law, although it concerns food, agricultural and food products, the Prime Minister presents it, so I understood from his contribution that he himself did not read much and has a lot of other concerns. That the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Industry and Trade are not sitting here - not with the Minister of Industry and Trade, but with the Minister of Agriculture, we have become accustomed to the fact that the House does not go to much for what a serious matter it is. To Mr Urban's margo. We produce new bureaucratic barriers for the Czech market. What's gonna happen? The market may be the easiest way to go, which means that everyone who says that they want to help local food farmers, local farmers, and so on will now throw them more control mechanisms, because they will have more and more controls and chains to sort it out just by simply delivering goods from Germany, where they will have more sales and maybe even lower prices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u41	Thank you. I beg another de facto Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u42	Thank you for the floor. I just want to remind you that we're on the committee week. Many colleagues today had seminars that they had been preparing in the long run. Of course, by calling this extraordinary meeting, we have complicated their lives, and we have also made their conditions for successful completion of the seminar worse. The Prime Minister doesn't mind empty benches behind his back. I don't mind. If this is an emergency, an emergency meeting, and now I'm not criticizing the Prime Minister, he's here, so where are the ministers? Where are they? Members also had contractual work obligations because it was a planned committee week, that is clear. But we came here and came. And the Prime Minister's ministers as one man and as one woman absent. Mr Bendl is right. The fact that the Minister of Agriculture is not here at an emergency meeting, on an extraordinary point that was not even supposed to be there - isn't it, Mr. Sklenák, through Madam Vice-President? I still have an e-mail where you communicated with us the contents of an emergency meeting, added about ten points, and the ministers didn't show up. Don't you think that's weird? It's weird to me. I propose that we temporarily suspend this item pending the arrival of the Minister of Agriculture. Two out of 17 members of the government will suffice me, so modest we are - the Prime Minister as a petitioner and minister of agriculture, from whose field it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u43	Thank you. Since this is a procedural proposal, we will vote on it without debate. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. There's a request for a check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up again with your cards. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] For all to know what we are voting on, we are voting on a procedural proposal to interrupt this item until the Minister of Agriculture Jurečka is present. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 9. There are 94 registered in attendance, for 41, versus 48. I'm of the opinion that the motion has been rejected. We will now continue with the detailed debate in which I have Mrs Havlová's duly signed up. Please come to the microphone. Mr. Adamec will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to sign up for the amendments under the numbers of the Houses of Documents, which are in the system under No. 2929 and 2930. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u45	Thank you. I have here a factual application from Mr Černý. I think that was a mistake. I therefore ask for Mr. Adamec's microphone. Mr Bendl will be ready. [[There's noise in the room.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u46	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I announced in my speech in the general debate, I would like to read the amendments - House document No. 2801 including justification. These are the terms of the contract: 1. In Section 3a of the proposal, the present text is referred to as paragraph 1. 1. 2. In § 3a of the proposal in the newly referred paragraph. 1. the word "Framework" shall be inserted at the beginning before the word "contract." 3. In § 3a of the proposal in the newly referred paragraph. 1. shall be under the heading. (a) the words "may not be longer than 30 days from the date" shall be replaced by the words "receipt of an invoice" by the words "receipt of a food or service related thereto or from the date of receipt of the correct tax document to the customer. [[whichever is the later]] 4. In § 3a of the proposal in the newly referred paragraph. 1. the current text of the letter. (b) is replaced by the following: "conditions for the supply of goods or services on the basis of orders made by the customer." [[16.40 hours]] 5. In § 3a of the proposal in the newly referred paragraph. 1. the following points (a) and (b) are inserted after points (b) and (c) of Article 4 (1): (c) the words "the manner of cooperation in their adoption and provision" shall be replaced by the words "the contract must be specific." [[The MP has silenced himself for the noise from the right.]] I'll wait. 6. In 3a of the proposal, paragraph 3a is added. 2. the following text: "The legal action taken contrary to paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not be taken into account." 7. In Article 4, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Commission shall adopt implementing (f) between the words "§ 3a" and "written." (a)'shall be inserted by 'paragraphs 1'. Another change - the amount of sanctions. 8. Article 8 (1) (a) 3. It shall read as follows: For the administrative offence referred to in paragraph 1 (b). (a) if there is an abuse of significant market power...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u47	I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask my colleagues to transfer their debates to the lobby or to keep quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u48	I'll read it again. Article 8 (1) (a) 3. It shall read as follows: For the administrative offence referred to in paragraph 1 (b). (a) if to him...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u49	Mr. Ambassador, you can see we're trying, but it's on the right, on the left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u50	It's hard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u51	I'll ask my colleagues not to debate loudly with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u52	Maybe the echo of my words will come back to the Minister of Agriculture in Kazakhstan if we read it for so long. So I'm gonna start over, so we understand better. [[An explosion of laughter in the hall.]] 8. Article 8 (1) (a) 3. It shall read as follows: For the administrative offence referred to in paragraph 1 (b). (a) if it is misused by the significant market power referred to in Article 4 (1) (a) of Directive 2014/65/EU; Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) (f) and if it causes a particularly serious result, a fine of up to CZK 10,000 shall be imposed. For the administrative offence referred to in paragraph 1 (a). (a) in the case of other abuses of significant market power, a fine of up to CZK 500,000 shall be imposed. For the administrative offence referred to in paragraph 1. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) (b), (c) or (d) and a fine of up to CZK 300,000 shall be imposed for the administrative offence referred to in 2 - §2. Now allow me to justify paragraphs 1 to 7 of the amendment. The proposed text does not correspond to the real practice when a framework contract is concluded, on the basis of which individual orders are made and individual contracts are concluded. If the current text is left, then the situation could be sanctioned when the customer sends a written order and the supplier delivers the goods without confirming the order in writing. Therefore, there would be no conclusion of a written individual contract. The validity of the invoice must be linked to the receipt of a proper tax document in the light of the obligations under the Value Added Tax Act. On paragraph 8 of the amendment. The reason for the adjustment is the need to establish proportionate and not winding-up sanctions. I have already discussed this in the general debate. In the case of liquidation sanctions of up to 10 per cent of turnover, i.e. even in the order of billions, customers would want to avoid risk and reduce cooperation with Czech producers and suppliers, and this would lead to a decrease in the share of Czech food on the market and a decrease in exports of Czech food, and consequently would result in additional negative consequences: unemployment growth in the food industry, a decrease in investment, a halt in technological development, a lower tax collection, etc. etc. As I have announced, the proposal is a regulation of the amount of sanctions which, at this point in time, is based on the Italian legislation of the issue. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Bendl's microphone, please. Mr Laudát will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u54	Thank you for the floor. As I have announced in the general debate, I propose rejecting this law in its third reading. Let me give you a brief explanation. I think that even from the debate here, it was clear that I am not counting the coalition members, the ministers, because they are not even here, he did not have the strength to defend this bill and did not speak at least with the answers to the questions that we have asked here. That the Prime Minister didn't answer them, I understand that, because I've already said it here, I understand that he has a lot of other concerns than to read the drafts of the law in detail. Because this law is not about whether the customer or supplier will provide the customer, or vice versa, as the Prime Minister said here, a birthday contribution, for which we already have legislation today, and we are already able to solve such cases in accordance with Czech legislation today. Prime Minister, I think that, too, the masters of agriculture and industry and trade, if they were here, could confirm that you really do not need to worry about this. The bill, and it fell here, unfortunately, no one in the coalition refuted it, introduces unequal conditions, both in the businessman's relationship versus entrepreneur's, meaning the popular customer-contracting relationships. If you recall News, which was the news that ran before 1989, the former regime has always devoted a significant part of its time to evaluate customer-contracting relationships. And this is a bill that brings us back to that time because it deals with customer-contracting relationships, because it tells the business sector what contracts it has between them in the Czech business environment, what contracts they have to conclude between them. And that's what the state of sanctions invented. The unequal conditions are also on the part of the state, because the state itself does not respect the conditions it wants for the business sector and clearly does not intend to follow them, because the Prime Minister did not have the courage to answer the question of whether it would cost anything to do with the fact that it would follow the 30-day maturity of the invoices itself, among other things. There are other and other things that we talked about here at first reading and maybe on the committee, because it is not quite clear who is involved and what is involved. I expect there to be another amendment to the law in at least six months, like almost all the nonsense this government carries here. Soon we'll have a line of them on the table again. Last thing I want to say. I would beg you, Prime Minister, try to get into the situation of former prime ministers and force your ministers to attend the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. I think the House deserves it, and at least in response to the questions that I believe you are not able to answer alone, and I understand that, in this respect, I apologize to you, but the other ministers really should sit here when it comes to them. Otherwise, weak prime minister - weak government - weak coalition - bad laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u55	Mr. Laudát's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u56	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I want to sign up for the amendment, which is under number 2911 in the system. And also based on the notification of legislation there to load a change in § 1 para. (a) the following text shall be inserted between the words "related" and, with the purchase of foodstuffs: "selling or." Thank you. Excuse me, if the motion to dismiss at third reading hasn't been passed, I'm filing a motion to re-work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u57	Thank you. And I ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. It's not like that. Prime Minister? Mr. Rapporteur? This is not the case, so I end the second reading of this law and I end the discussion of this point. [[Noise in the hall.]] With priority rights, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u58	Just so it doesn't fit in. Let's all note that the Prime Minister just didn't answer. He has the right, my colleague excused him for understanding that he didn't know the answers. But he doesn't have my sympathy for not taking part in the ministers. Then it's hard to debate. And we're gonna have to ask the same questions again at third reading, unfortunately. Maybe the Prime Minister won't answer us again. But I do not understand why he did not state, for example, the reasons that he had decided on a one-sided bill and not a balanced one-sided bill. He didn't really mention them. So there are two options: either he doesn't want to tell us because he knows they're suspicious or he doesn't have any, or he doesn't know. I don't know which option is worse, and I just can't choose between them. [[A note from the diaper.]] And they don't even rule themselves out, that's true. [[16.50 hours]] Once again, when we complain to the level of parliamentary debate, notice - and I consider the questions I have asked to be material, not as the doctors here were suddenly discussing something completely different, so I really did not understand this, but we can have a debate on some draft law by Minister Nemecek and I do not defend myself, but with a significant market force, I found it really strange to discuss the legislative proposals of my former colleague Minister Julínek. But really, Prime Minister, it's a shame you didn't answer our question. You said yourself we're discussing this about the ninth time. I think we've had our first reading six times. That is, the eighth - second reading. Eight opportunities you had to answer and eight times you didn't use it, and that's a shame!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u59	Thank you. This is the Prime Minister with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u60	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I would really like it very much if Mr Stanjura could give a single concrete example when I criticised the quality level of parliamentary debate. I would really like to ask Mr Stanjura if he could quote me when I came to the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and allowed myself something so disrespectful that I would criticise the level of performance of colleagues and colleagues who, of course, have the full right here to criticise any government bill. It's okay. Then why would we have opposition? It would be a complete waste of money. You don't have a majority here in the House, you can't enforce anything, so for God's sake, we have opposition from at least criticizing things to ask questions to interpel, to look at things from a second perspective. I think that's absolutely necessary. I remember myself when I was in opposition, we couldn't push for anything at all. Everything we designed, you rejected us when the right had a majority here, you didn't talk to us, you didn't lubricate us. Some kind of discussion and opposition windows, I don't even remember it being like that when the right here had a majority. And I think it is absolutely necessary for the opposition to have the right to express itself at first reading, to interrupt it, to return to it, then to interrupt the first reading, to go back to it, to interrupt it, to go back to it, to interrupt it, and to return to it. I think she's perfectly fine. It's a parliamentary democracy. The Rules of Procedure allow us to do so. Now we had a second reading, we had a general debate, we had a detailed debate, which was rather a general debate, but this is based on the uncertainty of our Rules of Procedure, which the Chamber of Deputies has. I don't want to blame the opposition for that either. After all, let us all look into the conscience of who voted in favour of the Rules of Procedure in the past, and the result is here on the table. I am not at all opposed to discussing exactly the same issues in the third reading. I respect that there has been a very extensive interpretation of the debate here at the Chamber of Deputies at third reading, which means that the debate at third reading is exactly the same as it is at first and as it is at second reading, precisely so that the government cannot be accused of not taking the opposition's right to debate here. So I'm looking forward to a third reading debate too. I simply ask myself that every time this debate is held here, and I have already described here how many times we have interrupted it, I would ask Mr Stanjura, perhaps he will remember better how many times I have performed here, I have gradually taken these individual questions from Members and answered them here. I refuse to claim that I didn't answer those questions. If I did the statistics, I know exactly how it would turn out, which question was most often asked. I have answered it repeatedly, too. I have repeatedly been questioned where the government has decided that the law will be presented as it was submitted. She decided when she approved of the proposal. Based on what? Based on the discussion that took place in the commentary procedure. So I've been answering these questions repeatedly here, but I think it's a pretty good inspiration. I'm gonna pull out the stew from the whole law debate, just like it did here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Surely no one can accuse the government of refusing to discuss it. No one can accuse me of not performing during this debate. So I'm definitely going back to that, I'm going to take the stew from the whole discussion, and I'm looking forward to a third reading debate that we have unlimited amount of time for, as I understand it, and we can discuss absolutely anything. And I would just like to ask the opposition - I think it is very difficult for us to define what is possible here and what cannot be discussed here. Therefore, we should not criticize ourselves for the fact that one of the Members here will come forward and give an example that simply seems to him to be something related to the substance of the matter that is being debated here. At the same time, I would also like to ask not to use the argument that the government is pervading its own bills. I also met with this earlier today in the debate that preceded this point and related to the lottery law, and here, on the part of the opposition Members, there were remarks in the sense that you are actually doing this to yourself, and we are barely performing in the debate, and you are the one who is stalling the whole thing. I don't think it's obstruction when someone's performing and debating, and we shouldn't blame each other. I think we don't blame the opposition, the opposition shouldn't blame the coalition. And the Minister or Prime Minister is not obstructive here, but it is an attempt to engage in debate, not to ignore the debate. And I'm asking, how is a government MP supposed to behave here? Because when he gets out, he gets criticized for being obstructed. If he doesn't perform, it's contempt for the opposition. And I ask, then, what is the right method for a government MP or minister here in the Chamber of Deputies to avoid criticism? Because if I hadn't spoken at all today, I wouldn't have answered, I would have been accused of arrogance. I am, of course, a person who is not arrogant, so I joined the debate, even repeatedly, I answered the opposition's questions, and now at the end of the whole point, in fact, I have already relieved myself, because we have had second reading, that is an excellent result after a number of months, when this law lies here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and then in a summary speech by the President of the ODS, it is stated that it is actually the same thing whether I was performing or not, that I did not answer any of the opposition's questions here anyway. It's so weird. But once again I stress, I appreciate the role of the opposition, I myself was in opposition, the reason from the opposition is very often free of charge, the government should listen to what the opposition says. On the other hand, you cannot ask the government to always do what the opposition is proposing, because in cases where the opposition has had the opportunity to rule itself and to do what it is proposing to us today, it hasn't always worked out so well. So let's listen to what the opposition says, let's think about it, but let's do what we got the mandate from the citizens to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u61	Thank you, and please, with Mr Stanjura's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u62	I am glad that the Prime Minister of our country is in a good whim, that he is in a good mood and is joking with us like this. First of all, Prime Minister, save your time and give it to somebody, those stew records. Don't you fucking look for it! I think the Prime Minister's time is too expensive for that. I'll give it to someone, too, and then we can compare it. You used your favorite political method, and you're very good at that, and you have to appreciate the qualities of an opponent or a political opponent, because you opposed something I didn't say. The only thing that wasn't quite accurate when I used you, so the Czech is magical, I thought of some members of the government coalition, and the Prime Minister understood that you were the one who was thinking directly of the Prime Minister. I confirm with all due respect that the Prime Minister never proposes any restriction on the rights of the opposition, and if I criticise the absence of some members of the government, it is almost always in the presence of the Prime Minister. So he's here. I'm criticizing that his ministers aren't here. And really, if you understand, Prime Minister, that I'm accusing you of trying to limit the rights of the opposition, I'm sorry. I used you in the general description, but there are suggestions especially from the sides of your coalition partner of the ANO movement. Today, I was answering the press for the idea that the length of performances for one club would be determined in advance. And I know it's not you and that you're not suggesting it because you have experience both from the opposition and from the government. And to comment on the statement that the opposition will not enforce its agenda against the government, that is true, we will agree, but we would have learned a lot of such general truths. And I didn't say, Prime Minister, that you didn't answer anything. I said that for two specific questions from the five I asked, and that I would ask those two again, not those three. And if you'd answered those two, I wouldn't have put them down again. And we can try to find it for both of you, if you've ever answered those questions in the split debate. If I'm wrong and you've already answered them, I'll say it at the third reading, apologize, and I won't ask again. [[17,00 hours]] It really was nothing and without a doubt - and I am absolutely sure that my mouth did not say that the speech of a government MP was obstruction. I do not think so, and on the contrary, I welcome the opportunity to exchange and defend opinions here. What I do not welcome is that we raise questions, arguments, and government MPs simply remain silent and no one defends it. So you've spoken so nicely to the opposition, I understand. We also do not complain that you do not approve of our proposals. [[He's laughing.]] We'd be really funny, wouldn't we? I understand. You're telling us too - don't complain. We really don't complain. And what we rightly criticize, and that is simply the light tone you have not excused, is, for example, the absence of the Minister of Agriculture at the last point, when it is an extraordinary meeting, which the government extremely needed to discuss that point. That's a problem we can probably agree he should be sitting here, not sitting here. But that has nothing to do with how you said someone was trying to talk in person. We're in agreement, you're not trying to limit our rights, you're involved in the debate, too. I was just saying, and I'm gonna prove to you in the tape screen that you didn't answer two of those five questions, unfortunately, and I said it was a shame. It wasn't anything offensive, it was nothing that I didn't do anything about the debate, the third reading is definitely going to happen relatively quickly. As I have noted, four colleagues have tabled amendments, so there are not so many. But I'm gonna ask you two questions, and if you don't answer me, I'm gonna send you a written interview and see if I can get those answers. That's all. And thank you, and really seriously, for the correct approach to the opposition's acting out. I agree with the Prime Minister that the speech and debate of any Member is simply not obstruction. That's all. But Prime Minister, I'm sorry if we criticize the government as a whole, the ministers or you as a prime minister, so I think we can criticize even specific Members. I think that criticism should not only be directed at ministers and prime ministers and that I can criticize my colleague as often as they criticize me, I can bear it when I think he hasn't talked to the point and dragged the debate into a whole other issue. It wasn't even offensive, I was just saying that I didn't quite get it, but that we could discuss it with the health laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-11-05-ps2013-035-02-002-004.u63	Thank you. Before we start the next point, I'll read the apologies. Mr Černoch apologizes for medical reasons from 16.30 pm from today's meeting. Mr. Votava cancels his apology. Mr Laudát apologizes from today's meeting at 17:00. Mr Kaňkovský apologizes until the end of the day due to his participation in the exit meeting of the Health Committee. Mr Kott apologizes from 16 o'clock until the end of the negotiations for working reasons. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
