ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-10-ps2013-026-10-000-000.u1	Good morning, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Member of the Government, sorry, Member of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 26th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you here. Please log in with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. Mr Milan Brázdil for health reasons, Mr Radim Fiala for Václav of foreign travel, Mrs Milada Halíková from 11 o'clock for personal reasons, Mrs Olga Havlová within 10 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Jana Hnyková for family reasons, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa from 10.00 to 12.00 for work reasons, Mr Simeon Karamazov for personal reasons, Mr Jaroslav Klaška for work reasons, Mr Rom Kostřica for personal reasons, Member Jana Lorencová for reasons of health reasons, Mrs Radka Maxová for family reasons, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk for health reasons, Mr Herbert Pavera for work reasons, Member Stanislav Pfléger for Votava of foreign travel, Mr Lukáš Pleticha for reasons of foreign travel, Mr Jan Sedláček for Vondrášek of health reasons, Mr Vozdecký Šenfeld, Mr. Furthermore, the following members of the government asked for apologies: Mr. MP and Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek from 10 o'clock for work reasons, Minister Jiří Dienstbier for foreign travel reasons, Minister Milan chovanec for family reasons, Minister Michaela Marksová for work reasons, Minister Jan Mládek for foreign travel reasons - but I see this here, so I am canceling this apology. Minister Svatopluk Němeček for work reasons, Minister Robert Pelikán for work reasons, Minister Martin Stropnickýý for work reasons, Minister Dan Ťok for work reasons and Minister Lubomír Zaorálek for work reasons. Today we should focus on points 127, 128 and 82, these are House prints 301/3, 308/3 and 351, and then we should focus on the electoral points, namely points 133, 134, 137 and 138. The chair of the TOP 09 and the Mayors Miroslav Kalousek will take the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman. The rest of you, I'm begging for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-10-ps2013-026-10-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, for a short time as President of the parliamentary faction, to turn to the leadership of our Chamber of Deputies with the following reminder or request. During yesterday's interpelations, in my interview with the Minister of Finance concerning his conflict of interests as Minister of Finance and the owner of MAFRA publishing house, instead of a material reply, I received insults and insults which exceeded the high level that is in our Chamber of Deputies. I am far from feeling personally offended by this. Those statements say nothing about me, but about the levels of their author. However, I would like to turn to the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies to consider how much they are willing to tolerate the members of the Government in response to the interpelations. The item is still called Answers of Government Members to Interpelation, not called Torture of Members of the Government Members to Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-10-ps2013-026-10-000-000.u3	Thank you to President Kalousek. As a member of the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, I say to Mr Kalousek that we will deal with this. Thank you. Before we proceed to the deliberations of the bills returned to the Senate, I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, that Senator Jitka Seitlová and Senator František Bradáč, Pavel Eybert and Miloš Vystrčil be given the floor. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I will now vote on who agrees to the speech of the appointed senator and senator lords. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 176, 137 Members and Members, for 129, against none, I note that this proposal has been approved. The first point of our negotiations is therefore:
