ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-002-079.u1	79. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratify the amendments to the articles Statutes of the World Tourism Organisation and the Statutes of the World Tourism Organisation (the House press 360/ - first reading) Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will present the proposal. I beg you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-002-079.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Czech Republic approved the Government's proposal to adopt amendments to the articles of the World Tourism Organisation and to ratify the statutes of this organisation on 27 October 2014. This is a change in the international treaty, i.e. non-legislative material. The approval of these Statutes and amendments to its Articles shall be governed by the constitutional provisions of each Member State. This material was transferred to the government without conflict. The material was approved by the government, then forwarded to the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to this ratification. 25 February 2015 The Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agreed to ratify government material. It was agreed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security of the Senate and the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport. After expressing our consent to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, we propose to submit material for ratification by the President of our Republic. The World Tourism Organisation is an international intergovernmental organisation based in Madrid. The statutes of the organization entered into force in January 1975 and in 1976 the former CSSR acceded to the statutes. As a sovereign state, the Czech Republic became a full member of the association on 1 January 1993. The Czech Republic acceded to the original statutes of this organization from 1970 and adopted previously amended articles from 1979 and 1989. Spain, which is the depositary of the Statutes, has addressed the Czech Republic with a request to express its consent to amendments adopted by the General Assembly of the Organisation, which have not yet entered into force. The amendments to the articles of the articles of association and, in essence, the reason why we put it forward are the reactions to the changes that the organisation is going through and reflect the real needs of the organisation. These are changes to the name of the organisation, which became a specialised UN organisation in 2003, the membership arrangements and competences of associated members, the participation of associated members in the General Assembly of that organisation and the Executive Board, the introduction of the Chinese language as one of the official languages of the organisation and the establishment of the organisation's budget in the single currency of the euro. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-002-079.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-002-079.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, because Minister Šlechtová has already said basically everything important here about what is the fundamental mission of the World Tourism Organisation. She also mentioned in quite detail here what concerns the change contained in this document, in particular the name of the organisation, as well as the membership arrangements and competences of associated members, the participation of associated members in the General Assembly and the Executive Board meeting, as well as the introduction of the Chinese language as one of the official languages of this organisation. Those amendments to the Articles of the Statutes and their Annexes, the financial rules are a response to the changes that organisations are going through and therefore reflect the real needs of the organisation. Their purpose is to ensure the effective functioning of the World Tourism Organisation and to expand the language diversity of the organisation. I recommend that you support it at first reading and proceed to the Foreign Committee for discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-05-21-ps2013-027-06-002-079.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. I don't see anyone. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate. I wonder if the secretary wants to take the final word. It's not like that. The rapporteur? This is not the case either. In this case, we will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion, with the organizational committee proposing that the proposal be submitted for discussion to the foreign committee. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal or a supplement. It's not like that. In that case, I will put it to a vote. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Okay, I'm registering the check-out request. In that case, I declare this vote misguided. I'll check you all out and ask you to come forward again. So I am now opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment tabled to the Foreign Committee, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? We have a vote with order number 154. Members of Parliament shall be appointed by the Council. For proposal 109, against none. I note that the proposal has been approved and this government proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. The next item at today's meeting is
