ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 62 and 97 of the House press 508 and 272/ The combined debate has been interrupted by 8. 12th and we can proceed. I have applications here from 8. 12. First Mr Lank, then Mr Benda, then Mrs Nováková. With priority, does the Minister wish to speak - and the Member withdraws? [[I've been here before.]] Yes, very well, therefore, Mr Lank has already spoken. The Minister wishes to exercise the right of priority, so I will grant him the right of priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have come today to ask you to stop the liquidation of a district city every year with me. Cities such as Svitavy, Pelhřimov, Benešov or Jičín have only slightly fewer inhabitants than 18,000 people who die each year from smoking-related diseases. The biggest killer of smokers is not lung cancer, it is a widespread mistake, but heart and blood vessels diseases, such as myocardial infarction or stroke. Of the total number of deaths a year, it is one of the five who dies from smoking - related diseases. Only today will 50 smokers die, who have reduced their lives by many years. Let's help stop it! I brought a prop with me today that we all know. [[He built a funeral urn on the speaker's counter that says, "Smoking can cause slow and painful death."]] Looking at her isn't pleasant to anyone. The average smoker will approach it by his decision by 15 to 18 years. But I refuse to let smokers take people to their graves who don't want to. Passive smoking causes 30% of lung cancer in smokers. It's not normal! Otherwise, it is also an answer to the arguments of colleagues from ODS. They say there's freedom, and everyone has the right to choose whether to go to a smoking restaurant or not. And how does this view of freedom apply to employees who don't smoke and who are happy to get a job at all? No, I'm sure this lashing out of freedom isn't right, and it's quite limping. Are they Brit or Ir or Ital? Let me show you something after the basic facts. Now it's modern in the House, so I went with the times. Several pictures that cause smoking. It's not very nice footage. This is what a smoker's lungs look like on a sectional finding. [[He's pointing.]] I could ask and I could show you a picture of the non-smoking and smoker's lungs and challenge: find nine differences, but that would be too much to lighten the subject. I am sure that if any of you have hesitated now to support the anti-smoking law, they will now clearly support the law, perhaps if I look at my colleague, Master Jandák has also Zavadil, they will probably not vote for it, but I firmly believe that the majority will and that you will support this proposal to pass through the second reading. Thank you, and I'm taking the prop with me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u3	It is evident that the Minister's performance with the prop has caused many reactions, so first of all, factual remarks. Colleague Zavadil, colleague Jandák... A real note? If you exercise the right of priority, Mr rapporteur, then only after factual remarks. Then a colleague of Stupčuk and de facto. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, excuse me, there is another minister, so the honourable part of the government, and one more. Mr President, in essence, the Minister almost summoned me. I'm the kind of smoker who smokes five to eight cigarettes a day, so I'm not a passionate smoker, but there are a few things that bother me about the whole anti-smoking campaign. She's not fair. Why isn't it also said that people die at the age of 96 and smoke 40 cigarettes a day every day? Why isn't it said that citizens die when they're 86 and smoke 30 cigarettes a day? I haven't read this! Why isn't it said and why the finance minister, who isn't here at the moment, shouldn't want a sentence to appear on those boxes where there is a serious warning that smoking is harmful to health: does the finance minister humbly thank you? Because that's two things we need to thank for. First of all, there are $50 billion flowing into the state budget, but let's say it's different. And then it's that -- and I'm not even gonna say that. So I don't see the full fairness of it, and that's why I'm not voting for the law either. I say this honestly and fairly and, of course, I will deal with other things, and that is that we avoid smoking in village pubs where it is quite difficult for me. When I imagine how it works in a village pub, where I even pinged a little while at a country pub to earn some crown, so I can't imagine people not smoking there. But that's a matter for other debates, so I just had to get off, because that's how I feel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u5	Colleague Jandák - factual comment, then colleague Stupčuk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u6	Don't worry, it won't be fun. No. Mr Minister through the President, you said it well, you showed it even better. I agree with you all, but I'm not going to stop smoking. But that's not what I was gonna say. I wanted to say one thing, esteemed legislature. Do you realize how many fundamental laws lie here? The property bill, the referendum law, and I could name it. We came here and we all started fighting corruption, for good, for everything, and then the one who's fighting for health blows it away. I think we should really go back to what's been here for over a year, and then, when it's okay, no one steals, so people should stop smoking. I think that's the way it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u7	I have three factual points - Mr Stupčuk, then Mrs Marková and then Mr Lank. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I confess that, after the Minister's speech, I did not understand what the logic of the bill was, whether it was the protection of society from smoking, including those smokers, because if that is the case, I would expect the Minister of Health to make an appeal to restrict the supply side here, and that is in no way the case here. And that is the greatest hypocrisy of the law that, on the one hand, we are not here at all easing the availability of tobacco products from the public space, and, on the other hand, from the public space the poor consumers who pay for it with the blessing of the state. And that's what I've been saying from the start, and I'm saying it's unfair. If the value basis of this law is to protect non-smokers from smokers, then I have already pointed out here in previous performances that this can be achieved by means of construction technical means, the department where smokers can smoke in constructionally separate spaces and not come into contact with non-smokers at all. And if there's a problem with the staff, of course, either the smoking area, they can be unattended, or there will be a staff that also smokes. In other words, let us look for such a solution, and I thought that it was always the purpose and the policy, to look for solutions that reconcile various interests in society and try to find some highest common denominator and to seek consensus on how to accommodate, in this case, both groups, and I remind you that one of the groups is certainly not innumerable. It is 34 percent of the adult population that regularly uses tobacco products. [[Prime Minister, your time for action is over.]] So I want to clarify what the value subject of this law is. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u9	Thank you. Now Mrs Soňa Marková has the floor to a point of fact. Before he approaches the counter, I say that Mr Holík cancels his apology from today's meeting. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. My point is to stop making this theater. It's not like this law isn't about someone forbidding adult smokers to honor their habit. That's not the law at all. This law is primarily about protecting children and youth from the harmful effects of addictive substances, not only tobacco products, but also alcohol and other substances and other addictive substances. Please, please, let's not talk about this on this plane. Let us talk about the fact that we really want to protect our children and young people from this bad habit. Those who already have that habit, now it's up to them what they're gonna do about it. Please refer to the value of health as the highest value that really means something to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u11	Thank you, Mrs Sona Marková, for keeping the time. Mr Martin Lank is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u12	I don't know, but is there really someone here who actually believes that by banning smoking in restaurants, we're going to make a big difference by not smoking here at all, or that we're all gonna miraculously come to life and we're all gonna be beautifully healthy? Again, in Italy, four years after the introduction of a ban on smoking in restaurants, the decline in smoking-related diseases by two tenths of a percent. So if you want to fight for your health like this, it's gonna take a long time. Second thing. If a non-smoker from a number of restaurants just picks out the smoker and insists on sitting there, no one gets mad at me, so by some kind of Darwinian principles, I think he can still knock himself out of the gene pool. And three. I thank the Minister for manning himself and finally bringing us a proper ashtray.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u13	I thank Mr Martin Lanka. Now, Mrs Černochová's point of fact, then the rapporteur with priority rights. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u14	If the Minister of Health thinks that some people should quit smoking, I think some people should stop drinking. [[Laughter and applause.]] But I'm talking about it from the experience of a long-time municipal politician. In fact, we have more than 50 percent of non-smoking restaurants in Prague 2. And I invite the minister to Prague 2 to walk with me at 11:00, midnight some narrow streets that we have in the residential part of Prague 2. How's it going on the streets? If the Minister thinks that people are really gonna get rid of that habit with his ban, he's wrong. On the other hand, these people smoke in front of the premises, they smoke in there during the day when children go to school, to kindergartens and to playgrounds. So, on the contrary, the fact that smokers are going out on the street will mean the exact opposite of what the Minister wishes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u15	That was Mrs Černochová. Real notes are still growing. First Mrs Olga Havlová, then Mr Kalousek, then Mrs Hnyková, then another. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally am a non-smoking man. I haven't smoked in 30 years. [[Laughter.]] And I have to stand up for these smokers. Personally, I think what Mrs Černochová said in front of me is the problem. We're gonna drive the smokers out on the street, and I'm much more upset that they're gonna be watched by those kids we want to protect the smoking from, and we're gonna leave free restaurants where they're not gonna smoke. I'm much more upset when there's a mess all over the streets, a messed up buttocks, crossing the crossroads, almost a smoker with a cigarette in his hand burns his jacket, than if he's sitting in a restaurant somewhere, and today he's got a choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u17	Thank you, Mrs Havlová. Mr Kalousek cancels his application for a factual remark, Mrs Hnyková, Mrs Válková will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on this, too. I don't know if smoking us non-smokers - I belong to the other group, I don't smoke and smoke my whole life - and if they convince us to support you. I just don't support you because I think it's harmful to health, and I confess to life's philosophy that health is the most important thing. But I'd like to join my colleague Marková. This law is not only about smoking, it is also about addictive substances. The number of people is rising, especially adolescents who depend on these addictive substances. I myself held two seminars on this issue in the Liberec Region, and I see how very damaging it is. First of all, we should think about the complexity of the entire law and not just specialize in smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u19	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Now, Mrs Válková, too, with a factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u20	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I am a resident of Prague 2 and Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, has said some things here that I feel a little differently. Maybe I don't walk the same streets. The streets in Prague 2 are relatively clean, lives very well in Prague 2 and lives much better there precisely because more and more restaurants become non-smoking. But the smoking restaurants, even with the so-called building-separated spaces, are not really good for the non-smoking, and all the less, of course, for the staff. Otherwise, I'm joining everyone who's been talking about not narrowing it down to a proposed amendment to smoking, virtually. No smoking in the restaurant premises, or in the interior of the restaurant facilities, that is a much more complex law. And for this reason too, the Chamber of Deputies should already decide on this day - one way or another. And otherwise, through Mr President to Mr Jandák, just one last sentence. I think that nothing more important than protecting life and health is on the agenda not only in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in other institutions and bodies that have the opportunity to intervene in public life in some way. So I think that, on the contrary, we should take priority action to protect these goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u21	Thank you, Madame Válková. It has raised another wave of factual remarks, so the rapporteur will wait with his priority right. Now, Mrs Černochová, then Mr Kostřica, then Mr David Kasal. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u22	Thank you. I thank Professor Válková for your compliment. The way I meant it, if, in the middle of the night, smokers get pushed out of those smoking restaurants, not the non-smoking ones, on the street, it's really gonna mean an increase in public order disruption. I already have a whole bunch of complaints in front of those clubs. I know that you are a resident - through the Vice-President - of the New Town, I am a resident of Vinohrad. And you guys have several clubs where every week I get these exact suggestions that people, thanks to the fact that the club is non-smoking, are standing in front of the premises at night. And unfortunately, it's a Trojan street that we agree isn't one of the broadest. It is also in other locations in Prague 2. I don't want to address and develop municipal issues here right now, but this is really going to happen to a much bigger extent, and we as mayors of the city or municipalities will have huge problems with that, because people will turn to those complaints against us, and we will find it difficult to explain to them that the legislature has decided to banish smokers from whom another repression has not limited the possibility of getting a cigarette, driving them to the streets. And on the other hand, on the streets, their mischief is much more visible. That's what I meant, and I'm just sorry to hold up, but I needed to explain it to Professor Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another point in fact, Mr Rom Kostřica. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u24	Thank you for the floor. I decided not to perform, but allow me at least one thing from the position of a doctor who deals with daily treatment of head and neck cancers, which are largely caused by smoking. You know, when you talk to patients who are just before the end, and they know that, because two days before that, a neighbor dies from a similar illness in the next room, he bled to death. The patients, the tumors are falling apart, they stink. No one wants to come to that room. People are avoiding it. [[17.10 hours]] These people are unable to be cared for by their family because it is too burdensome. And believe me, a whole series, and a lot of patients, when I talked to them, they said, "I am, and now they said an ugly word for which I would get a financial ticket, those cigarettes that I didn't give up. Because they see the consequences. That's the kind of thing I'm gonna keep smoking, that's the kind of thing most people really have, but it's at the time of the tumor. There's still a chance. But if that happens, and they know that the end is coming, that it is urgent, and it tends to be bleeding, decaying tumors, it really is a thing that I think is terrible, and for that reason I in any way support any measure that would reduce access and the possibility of the entire population to smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u25	I thank Mr Kostřic. Another factual point by Mr David Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would follow up on some of my colleagues, who here pointed not only to smoking, but also to other substances. Let me tell you a few numbers from a small county hospital that's about four years away. In the children's ward, drunk children are hospitalized because drunk children can't be hospitalized at the infirmary, and if I tell you there were 76 of them in the four years, 35 of them, 36 boys. The youngest was 8 years old, the oldest 17 years old and the extent of the promil was between 0.8 and 3.47. We're not just talking about smoking here, but we're talking about this. I just want to point out that this is the tip of the iceberg. Those are the ones who are brought in by the rapid rescue service, and much more of the people remain at home where most parents take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u27	Thank you, Mr Kasal. Another factual point by Mr Janulík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u28	Colleagues, colleagues, I can't do this. It's not entirely out of my head. We talked about it with a colleague, but I think we saw receipts here from the hands of the ministers when the financial questions were being discussed. We saw an urn. There's already been an electronic cigarette smoke. And I'm thinking what we're gonna see when we're discussing the law on prostitution regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u29	I thank Mr Janulík for his time on the point of fact. Mrs Lorencová will be replaced by a doctor and Mr Koskuba will be prepared to make a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor. I ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u30	Mr President, colleagues, I must say that I really hate to say this, but I must admit that I agree with my colleagues' opinions from the right, because I consider it an anomaly to pretend to be so interested in the well-being and health of our fellow citizens that we simply forbid them from smoking or drinking alcohol. Because alcohol is an addictive substance? It is. If I go to a bar and want to smoke - I want to quit smoking, I'm sending. [[Laughs of several Members.]] If I go to a bar and want to smoke, I don't suppose I'll expect a bunch of little kids to be there to bring their parents in to breathe smoke. I can't imagine. But I can imagine the care of the owner of the restaurant, which separates the space for smokers and the space for non-smokers, and that will still be at a disadvantage compared to those who will have the restaurant only non-smoking. Because even those, we know well, these non-smoking restaurants are growing. So it's not because I smoke and I want to quit smoking. It's not about that. It's about everyone having the right to choose. And that right of choice here is guaranteed enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u31	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Now Mr Koskuba has also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have acted on this bill several times, and I'm sure no one as a doctor will suspect me of denying the facts of the harmfulness of smoking here. However, we here, with all due respect for the Minister, do not really address the consequences of consumption, apart from other tobacco products. We're merely limiting someone here. Because if you want what my honored colleague Soňa Marková said, if we're serious about all this, we need to move on. Yes, my colleague, Kasal, here, spoke of how our children fall, and I also know something about it as a doctor. But then, folks, we're gonna have to go even further. So if we don't ban smokers and destroy them as a social group and drive them out on the sidewalks, we're gonna have to go even further. We're gonna have to jump into vehicles where if there's no smoker in the car and there's only one smoker who's in this closed area on a clogged D1, for which he pays the fees, he smokes all day, so the three in that car are even worse off than in the restaurant. And I could go on like this. Let's ban gardens so the kids don't see people out there drinking. Where to, folks, when we go? We're going to discuss the law here where we're going to check the boilers. I'm sure it's an honorable thought. Come on, let's put this law down, and let's think about whether if they go to check the boiler for solid fuel, they'll also check to see if the parents drink and smoke in front of the children. That's where the alpha and omega are. Family! And we can't save this law with all due respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u33	I thank Mr Koskuba. Time worked out for him. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. I'm in a hurry not to make a statement. Mr. Benda will be ready. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u34	Members of Parliament, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President, I am a little disillusioned sometimes by the debate. I will also be very brief. Of course, as a pediatrician, a doctor, and a person who hasn't smoked for 60 years, I have no sympathy for smokers and I'm not tolerant of smokers and I won't be. And I fully agree with the opinion, I do not want to repeat what Mrs Marková and Mrs Hnyková have said here. I've got, like, four notes here, for one thing. That the offer isn't regulated, that's not true. Look into the law. Someone here said from their colleagues, it's regulated, maybe the number of vending machines is limited. Places where they can be and sell cigarettes etc. That's what the law says. There was the wrong idea that the ban on smoking in restaurants could not limit the number of smokers in the Czech Republic. It can. There is a statistical figure from the Nordic countries and the Netherlands, where when smoking in restaurants was banned, smoking in society fell by 10 to 20 percent. We've made it clear that the Czech nation is a little specific, so we'd be counting on 3 to 5 percent here. Because... I think the House is also a reflection of a little nation. Furthermore, I would say that passive smoking is of course harmful, and we must protect children from passive smoking. Of course, it would be right in households. Boris šťastný, as chairman of the committee in previous years, once suggested this, but it is probably nothing, of course, to control the ban on domestic smoking. We have to protect citizens, we have to protect children, we have to protect those 20,000 employees who work in hospitality and work in a smoking environment and they don't smoke. How do they get it? Are they supposed to look for other jobs? There's no other job. And for another, I just wanted to say briefly that, statistically speaking, 78 percent of Czech citizens - citizens of the Czech Republic - are given, i.e. including smokers - smoking in restaurants is prohibited. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u35	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now, Mr Marek Benda, Mrs Nina Nováková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u36	Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister - last one. It's obvious how much the government cares. Ladies and gentlemen, I have performed quite extensively last time. I think I've been logged in from the past by mistake, but I'm gonna use it because after listening to the actual notes here, I thought it was worth a while to get out. A note first to Mrs Hnyková, but also to the Minister. The bill is called the Government's bill on health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances. Generally addictive substances. Yet, apart from tobacco and alcohol, it does not solve anything at all. Other addictive substances don't work out. I've been pointing that out here the last time. There were a number of initiatives from the municipalities in this debate, and I happen to know that because I live in Prague 4 and in Nusli, where we have a big problem. If such a proposal should not include the solution to the so-called whipped cream shops or rooms where it is possible to administer substitution treatment to drug addicts so that they are not really directly in front of schools, right in front of churches, right in places where a large number of children are moving. That's the problem with pushing people out on the street. But that is a problem that is really going towards this smoking regulation proposal. And some of my colleagues have pointed it out here. Which leads to the fact that instead of people who are addicted to smoking sitting somewhere in closed spaces, they are pushed out on the street, where, as someone has already said, the butts remain, but let's just say that well, so restaurants will put ashtrays in there, even though they are not yet doing so, and restaurants that I know in their neighborhood and are non-smoking, they kind of forget to put an ashtray out there. But where are the kids passing through the house in a rather early evening, they'll see much more than sitting in that restaurant, and then I suppose their parents will take them to non-smoking restaurants. So if we want this example not to be seen on the street, it's complete nonsense to push smokers out of restaurants. Because all that's gonna happen is they're gonna go out on the street in front of the restaurant and they're gonna see the kids there. That's the first note. Note two. Unfortunately, this debate is going desperately mimosas. And now the minister has shown it to us with his urns and photographs, but basically the performance of the vast majority of doctors who perform and say: smoking is harmful. Although in 1995, I sent out my new year's PF a famous quote from Winston Churchill, I believe from 1953: I read so much bad about smoking that I decided to stop reading. But I'm willing to accept that you're right about smoking being harmful. But there is absolutely nothing to do with this bill. There's no conclusion at all as to whether we're supposed to ban it at restaurants, if we're to ban private operators from making a house call... it's basically in their home, even if it's an establishment to do what they want to do at home. Either say it's so harmful that you ban the entire population that it's so evil that it needs to start fighting it like drugs. I think it's a very unreasonable idea, but that would be the only logical conclusion of what you're climbing with urns and photos. To say it's such a health hazard, it has to be banned. Ban as drugs and prosecute anyone who wants to distribute this place. You know you'll never do that, because the Treasury Secretary's state budget would be kneeling down at that point and never set it up again. So there's a weird alibiism like this: we're going to say it's deadly, deadly dangerous for smokers, and it's deadly dangerous for anyone who just bounces around them, but at the same time, we're not going to ban it. I think it's either "A" or "B." And we're just gonna order private operators to do what they're supposed to do or not do in their businesses. Moreover, in a way, and we will get to it - the Minister has already admitted that he will release electronic cigarettes, I am very glad. I hope, in time, he will admit that he will allow the smoking room in non-smoking or mixed restaurants, because in all other public spaces he will allow them. Surprisingly public institutions, airports, all allowed to have smoking spaces, the only ones really not allowed to have them are restaurants. This is also a picantry which I do not know if the Minister is aware of, but it seems completely illogical to me and is to be what will be discussed between the first and second readings. There's another letter over the weekend that I'm giving my permission to quote briefly. It's not long, and I'm only intrigued by the fact that this gentleman is introducing himself, it's an email, so I can't verify, of course, that this gentleman is representing himself as a voter of the People's Party, who thanks us for defending him and that his own party is unable to defend him. But I'm briefly quoting what the problem is. "Dear Member. Thank you for your dissenting views so far on the general ban on smoking in restaurants. You are the only party holding this united position. Even I think people aren't fools, and they can choose which restaurants they're going to or not. It's a matter of personal freedom. I'm not a smoker myself, but I don't want to forbid anyone to smoke. Everyone has enough information to decide whether or not to smoke freely and at the same time accept the consequences of their decision. It's just not to bother smoking non-smokers. Yesterday I followed Mr Vyzula's argument, which constantly emphasized that he did not want to ban smoking, only protects non-smokers from the harmful effects of smoking. I wonder if any of these non-smoking health protectors in the House thought about where the smokers are going to smoke when they're banned from the restaurant. I myself live in Pardubice above one such restaurant, which has space for 300 people. If the present law passes, the guests of this restaurant will smoke directly under our windows all day long because the operation is continuous. It's not just this restaurant. There's plenty of restaurants whose guests are gonna blow smoke into people's windows. Did any of the supporters of the ban on smoking from members of the parties represented in the House analyse this fact? Please mention this issue in the House during further deliberation of the law or ask someone to do so. I really don't want to keep my windows closed permanently and get forced ventilation and filtration into my apartment." It's just a quote from one gentleman who looks at it from the problem that he lives over a restaurant and is afraid of exactly what I'm afraid of, too, that it doesn't make any sense to push smokers out into the cold to stand there as an example to children and smoke people's windows. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u37	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now we're going to go on, there's going to be two factual points. And I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Šarapatka apologises from 17 to 17.45, Mr Rais apologized or apologized from 15.30 to 16.30 and Mrs Květa Matušovská from 17.30 to the end of the day. Mr Kostřica, Mr Martin Lank, will be prepared and then we will continue the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u38	Thank you for the floor, I'll be very short. I was only provoked by Mr Benda's contribution. I think children sometimes see people smoking. To me, it seems relatively comical. And I would like to point out one more thing. I was in Tokyo two years ago, maybe we'll go that way too, but in Tokyo, you don't smoke on the street. There are really places that are reserved for smokers. They're somehow marked, I didn't understand how, because I wasn't able to read it in their characters, of course, but that's where all those smokers gather and smoke very disciplined. And in New York City, for example, in Central Park, which is a huge space in the middle of a big city, there's also a smoking ban. Just a little comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u39	I thank Mr Kostřic. Mr Martin Lank is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u40	Thank you for the floor. You know, I've been pointing that out here the last time, and here we go again. Please, let's stop bending the numbers. We can hardly operate here by protecting the interests of 20,000 employees in the restaurant industry. If 60 percent of restaurants are non-smoking, we just can't take this number as everyone's. But so be it. Seventy-eight percent of citizens are said to be banned from smoking in restaurants. Oh, yeah. If that question had been asked to me, I would have answered that question too. But it's a little different after all. If the question sounded the way it really is: it would be forbidden to smoke virtually everywhere, and you just wouldn't have that cigarette anywhere, not even in the beer, wine bar, coffee shop, I think people might have changed their mind. If you really want to do something to protect your health, why don't we take a path similar to Slovakia, I suspect? Why not ban smoking in cars where people under 18 travel? I think it makes sense. And if we want to do something for those employees, we can suggest that the jobseeker doesn't lose his job support if he refuses to do the job because he doesn't want to work in a smoking environment. These are things that I think make sense. And this is the way we should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u41	I thank Mr Martin Lanka. We are continuing the debate. Mrs Nina Nováková is absent at the moment, so her application is forfeit. Mr Radim Holeček will take the floor and prepare Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of Members here for a long debate - and the debate was very long, I am actually waiting for it, I signed up first, but unfortunately in the 90-seventh place, so now it is my turn - a number of Members have brought a personal look into the long debate. I always like that. There were smokers for not smoking, smoking smokers for smoking, and I'm gonna try to put my eye on it too. For example, colleague Hnyková, through you, a lifetime non-smoking, fights all ten for non-smokers. The rapporteur said he has no mercy for smokers. Well, as a lifetime non-smoker, I say I have mercy on them. Smokers are the most disciplined volunteer taxpayers. With exaggeration, they are the benefactors of the nation, as sir Humphry called them in Sure, Minister. I'm an absolute non-smoking life. Even so, the government and Members of Parliament are preparing a proposal for a total ban on smoking in restaurants and other private places - this proposal is already a matter of principle and my conviction. This proposal goes completely in the spirit of the current time full of bans, the monitoring of citizens' lives. It's just getting tougher. No smoking in public places was appropriate. There are places I can't avoid as a non-smoking person to be harassed by smoke. However, this ban interferes with the free treatment of private property. It is up to the restaurant owner to arrange his business as a non-smoking, smoking or with separate spaces and which customers want to address with their service. And it's up to me whether or not I decide to go to a place like this. Nobody's forcing me. Naturally, natural demand in recent years has caused more and more restaurants or cafes to be non-smoking and so good. There are also a number of smartphone apps where I can find out in advance whether it is a smoking, half-smoking or non-smoking restaurant. Try one of those apps. Sometimes in a heated debate on this subject, the argument is that the state also regulates the functioning of the hospitality business. However, the difference is whether as a customer I don't have a very good chance of finding out, I as a customer do not have the opportunity to find out the hygiene conditions such as in the restaurant's kitchen. But if this place is smoking or not, I just know. Unfortunately, with similar ideas to regulate human behavior, the bag has now broken. For example, Mrs. Ombudswoman doesn't want me to choose a tenant in my possession, but now, recently, Minister Brabec will be looking at the chimneys I'm drowning in. And so by the salami method, we lose more pieces of freedom. Maybe you and a bunch of you agree that I'm not allowed to go into a smoke room all day, all night, for example, once every 14 years in Ústí nad Labem, in a very smoky room, it's the worst fishing dungeon I can name, but it's really the most smoky thing there is, I'm gonna smoke those five cigarettes passively, I'm venting my clothes all night, and you're all here, or most of you say it's kind of stupid. But I strongly warn - let's not take people's freedom to do beautiful crap in their own free time. It's just never been good and pleasant to live in a shredded society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u43	I thank Mr Radim Holečka. Now Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, duly registered. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u44	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I've been waiting a long time to get to the floor, too. Of course, many of the things that have been said here are things that I have an opinion about. The fundamental thing I would like to say is that it is indeed completely unfair in this discussion to come out of the position of a doctor who understands and can make great arguments. When I was doing rigorosum from pathology, I was dissecting cancer lungs, no one has to tell me what they look like. All my life I've been dealing with oncology, no one has to tell me what cancer looks like. But I also do not abuse it - it is not well known - that there is a type of cancer that smoking has a protective effect that smokers and smokers have a smaller percentage of cancer of a certain type when they smoke a certain number of cigarettes. I don't want to abuse it because you can do anything in medicine. Medicine is a strange science. Nothing in it pays 100%. When things are going very well, it's 90 percent, and 10 percent is completely free in the air, it's different from all the rules. What I want to talk about is that we tend to forbid something. I don't want to take advantage of the ban on alcohol in the United States, what caused all this for a huge era of black alcohol burning, for a huge era of great gangs, great crime. I just remember my youth at high school, La Guardia's real high school. I never smoked when I was young because I was a top athlete. The only phase I ever lit was when I was at that high school when we had Professor Bartoš, an excellent mathematician and a smoker, I warn you, who was a fanatical anti-smoking fighter. He's been running all over the school looking to see if he's gonna find a smoker. It was our duty to invent a system that wouldn't find us. We even made a contract with the girls to free up one of the girls' bathrooms, and we smoked there. It took him about a month to figure out where we were hiding. It was just a reaction to the ban. That's how the world works. People tend to break bans. I think the only way to do this is to get back to some basic principles. When I was young, in my generation, there was no smoking at the table where the others ate. Nobody smoked until they ate. And that's what I'm talking about. We really need to call from downstairs, not call for a ban on something, but we need to re-choose education so that this is an existing rule. I've got a restaurant near my place that came from the most crowded four that's been there far and wide. A friend of mine remodeled it and turned it into something like Potrefená goose, a pub of that level. He came to me and said, "Please, what am I supposed to do? Do you want me to do it as non-smoking, or is it supposed to smoke, or is it half-smoking? I told him, "Look, I'm starting out that you're a cook and you want to cook." If you want to cook, the pub should be non-smoking, because that's the place for the food, as we know it. You just don't smoke when you eat, it doesn't belong together, because it reduces the gourmet pleasure significantly. He did it and lived for a year. He always had guests come in, say "no smoking" and leave. He's doing a lot better today because he cooks well. But I see another thing. What we've been talking about here is what I know from day-to-day practice. I go around every day with kindergarten kids. And the kids are stopping by and watching those smokers out there smoking, and they really see it as an example. They're asking about it. Speaking of employees, I just have to say that all of his waiters and other chefs are standing there, too, and everyone is smoking. So the threat to them is certainly on some other level. [[17.40 hours]] The problem is really big, because the old Latins already said: verba movens exempla trahunt. Words move, examples move. If we wiped out a smoking ad, it makes sense because the example disappeared. If we ban smoking in restaurants, there will be no educational effect on children, rather the opposite. And then I can also ask why we don't ban everything. Today it turns out to be a big problem drinking hyperenergy drinks. They're already dead, they're human damage, they're causing diabetes, they're four times more addicted to alcohol, they're those kids who drink hyper-energy drinks. And we have a record in the Czech Republic because, according to statistics, 80 percent of our children started drinking hyperenergy drinks within 14 years. It's nowhere else. Why don't we deal with such questions as smoking in restaurants where it's not about smoking being harmful, isn't it about protecting someone? It's about us interfering with someone's rights. I just don't go to a pub for lunch where I smoke, and I've been through a phase when I was a smoker, and now I'm not a smoker, but if I ever light a cigarette, then nothing happens to me, and if anyone wants to go there, then let them go, whether those non-smoking pubs go bankrupt, or let's create something else, something that's going downstairs. I have a native village somewhere in the south of Bohemia, where, of course, they smoke for their lives in those pubs. And that's where they created a special system. System 3:4 is the smoking and non-smoking inn. That's known in advance. There's no smoking here on Tuesday, there's no smoking on Saturday, I say these examples at random, and it works because they decided to. I never thought there'd be a non-smoking day in the pub in that village. It's just absolutely against the whole sense of how they live there, how they approach cigarettes, but it's the thing that came from below. If we order, if we ban smoking in restaurants, there'll be clubs, there'll be bars that aren't called bars, but they'll be called Swingers, and it'll be on swings where everyone swings and smokes. That's all right, because that's what human mentality is. We're just gonna create something that won't work. Look at the way we banned smoking at tram stops. Take a look at this and kick down those butts that are there on the sidewalk. Just because it doesn't work. Nothing works when it's unenforceable or ill-enforceable and when it's contrary to the general principles where you really want to make your own decisions. Do you think there'd be such a discussion if the power of those addicted smokers wasn't so great? They usually know it's bad for them, they know it all, we can tell them even more, but they still decide. And that they're putting someone at risk? They're not threatening anyone to go to a pub like that. And that is the right thing to do as politicians who are to adapt their thinking to the benefit of society, what we should defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u45	I thank Mr Svoboda. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u46	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak to militant non-smokers today. It is quite clear to me that I am not able to change your opinion, you have chosen your goal, you go to that goal and arguments, no matter how true they are, will not convince you. I'm glad they're telling me the truth and that's how they feel about it. I confess, I'm a smoker. In the words of classics, I could say that cigarette smokers are our common enemy because I smoke cigars. I don't want to talk about the difference between smoking cigars and cigarettes. I consider cigarette as a nail in a coffin, apparently a cigar is a cultural matter. First, it burns for about an hour when I talk about a big cigar, and secondly, it requires a certain ritual for you to enjoy it, it also requires time and peace. I've come to this with age. I started smoking when I was, like, 40. And I don't smoke for a week today, I don't smoke for two weeks, I just don't need it. But I really like that cigar, and when there's an opportunity and I need that time to smoke it, I like to light it. Among other things, a cigar is one of the biggest enemies of smokers, because the smoke room will infect substantially more than 20 cigarettes burned at the same time. What bothers me, and that's why I'm here to talk to those who don't know or don't know or care so much, they don't see it as a problem, is what has been said here and how I perceive it. My parents were strong smokers. I repeat, they are, they are no longer in the world. Both died of cancer, both died of cancer, which had nothing to do with smoking. I would be interested to know that if you were to eat healthier, you could have been here longer, or if you regretted it, because what was said from the doctor's mouth, that those smokers on their deathbed, when the mood in that room is, as it was said here, stinking with the disease, and I experienced it with both parents, what it's like to say to them, "Kish kish, you see, if you didn't smoke, you've been here five years longer. That's how I understood what was said here by the doctors. I think that's a tragedy, if that's how the doctors really treat it. I deeply appreciate it when doctors say: Yes, health is some value, I respect it deeply, this value, I agree that smoking threatens and damages this value, but it is in the will of a person to decide how he wants to harm his health. I can tell car racers how many are dying on the track, and yet it is their passion and passion are subject to it. I know a friend, a doctor, a lung surgeon who smokes. He's operating on these people, he's crawling into their lungs, and yet he smokes. And when I say to him, "Why do you smoke when you see it?" He says, yes, I know how it ends, but it's my risk, my awareness of how I approach life. And I say to all patients, "Don't smoke, it's harmful." I'm a bad example, maybe I'm a weak person, that I have to smoke, that I can't stop, but it calms me down. I, if I have that cigarette, it'll calm me down. I don't have to take any pills as colleagues of doctors to be in shape to handle the strain that's coming. In my opinion, this is the second addictive field. Medications, psychopharmaceuticals, today prescribed for kilos in the company. Anyone who comes up with a problem, depression associated with anything, and we're living in depressing times, let's just say, gets automatically from a doctor of psychopharmaceuticals. I think they're much more harmful than smoking. But we don't talk about that in society, because it's some sort of solution to a society problem. Yes, smoking has taken itself as a certain problem, as a battalion, and it needs to be enforced, it needs to be combated. I agree with that. Smoking is a bad thing. But here I turn to what we have before us. We have a health bill, we have an amendment here in a joint debate. And I ask, Minister, when you prepared the law, did you read it? I suppose so, you didn't just sign at the end when the officials presented it to you. Because if you'd read it, you might have fixed many of the things that are in that law, because I see you as a practice, as a person who's been through that practice and hasn't been just a clerk of command and action all his life. I'm already intrigued, and I don't want to discuss it, and here I thank my absentee colleague Stanjur, who's taken this bill apart into the details of the mistakes that are in that law, and the illogicalities that are there, the ill-conceivedness. I will only use one, that you immediately in Section 2 in point (a) compare tobacco to the development of mental disorders and behavioral disorders. I don't know how tobacco penetrates mental disorder and behavioral disorder. But there's a lot more of these examples. [[17.50 hours]] I don't want to repeat myself. I will refer only to one thing that interests me. In your material you refer to a study that has been published or is taken over, sorry, not in your material, but in the material that is paragraph 97 in the joint debate, it is apologetic, where it is referred to that 18,000 people die a year in the Czech Republic for smoking. It is based on some foreign message from the deathsfromsmoking.net website. I confess, I don't have glasses, and it's small written down. I read the report. It has about 13 pages, it concerns the Czech Republic. It's based here on the fact that it records, it's a anti-smoking website, to be specific, a country based on how mortality is reported in the tables. It says here it's from 1950 to 2000. I've studied it, I've learned it's from 1995 to 2000. Yes, they're terrible numbers, Minister. I fully agree with you, but those numbers tend to go down. The graph clearly shows that the Czech Republic stops smoking, but by 2000, I warn you, there are no new figures. In the previous stages, this Parliament adopted many laws regulating disorder, regulating smoking. I agree with these regulations because this regulatory signal needs to be given to society. The signal also meant banning advertising, marking cigarettes as harmful to health, placing smokers in special areas, smoking on reflexes, smoking in means of transport. I ask - do these laws work? Are these repressions working? According to the five-year graph referred to by the petitioner, they work. The result is that Czech society stops smoking. I welcome it, I applaud it. I'd welcome more current readings. I confess that if by 2014 there was a graph of how the Czech company stopped smoking, I would welcome these results. In a study that refers to 18,000 deaths as a result of smoking, it's up to 2000. If such a graph were, we would probably see that the Czech society is no longer smoking. Now I'm turning to the militant ones. It seems to you that it is slowly that we should all stop smoking faster. And you're trying to order it by law: stop smoking. This is the first time I'm gonna use what I'm gonna end up with for a long time. Don't try to cure me with the law! This is the worst the legislator could do if he tried to treat people with the law. Now I'm not going to talk about other diseases, this is where it was said, energy drinks full of sugar, fats and stuff like that. It's harmful. We all know that. But our job is to warn people, give them all the arguments so they can decide for themselves how harmful it is, but let's not try to treat me with a ban. That's what I would never wish for anyone to tell me how to heal, how to heal. As far as the law is concerned, it was said here that the law is more general. It's not just about smoking. Yes, I fully agree with that. And if the law weren't so categorically militant against smokers, it would have been passed a long time ago. Perhaps they would appear in the committees during the discussion of proposals for general bans or full bans on tobacco and other things. This would be discussed in the discussion on committees. Perhaps it would also be accepted and proposed by the third reading vote, so nothing would actually happen as it is now in this discussion. Unfortunately, this law is called in the smoking phase, and I dare say, militant, because it wants to eradicate them, it wants to ban them from smoking everywhere, no matter what they think. He wants to push them out. I consider this to be a big mistake in this law, and I blame the petitioner, because he should not try to treat people by means of the law. And here this law is written. I'm a smoker, like I said. I live in Ostrava. That's another problem. When I say that there were studies at the time, even serious studies that the people of Ostrava have a genetic fund altered against the inhabitants of the entire rest of the Republic, some "stragen" called it, maybe it was humor, you may have laughed at it, but the polluted air in Ostrava is so significant that it probably really changes the gene equipment of a person. The smiling point was that a Prague researcher who had been in Ostrava for five days with a trip had arrived and had already researched on his blood that he had a changed gene pool from his stay in Ostrava. That's a little bit of a shock. However, I consider it possible that not only does smoking harm health, but also all other matters related to the life of a person in his space and in his functioning. That means we're living, we're working, we're having some sort of exit development, we're hurting ourselves. I don't think there's anyone here who doesn't admit that he doesn't often hurt himself. Like by not moving, that he often sits down, that he doesn't sport, that he eats fat food or sweet food, that he has diabetes, and he doesn't do much except eat ten tablets a day. Are we trying to cure these people by law? Are we trying to ban their favorite vices? We just take it as the fact that these people decide their own lives all by themselves. If the law that's being passed here were human, make your own decisions, I'd be satisfied. I don't mind at all if I have to bring the coffee I need to smoke in that room myself. I don't need service there. This shows a signal from the poor non-smokers, the attendants. I agree with that. I don't force the attendants to go there. If the law had been made so as to set aside premises in smoking restaurants, as, among other things, most of Europe has it in its legal regulations and is forbidden to serve there, I would not be mad at it at all. I'm gonna take the coffee at the counter, go through the flyers or the ventilation area that prevents smoke from entering, out, and sit there, and I'm gonna drink the coffee there. It doesn't bother me at all, and I believe that no smoker cares, because I know there's a cafe in Ostrava that can smoke in a business center, unlike 30, I exaggerate, maybe 20 cafés and restaurants where it's forbidden, I'll go halfway across town, I'll sit there, I'll have to wait outside until the space is empty, because there's always plenty of smokers, because we're, worlds wonder, in society, almost 30%, so there's a lot of us. This may also be the reason for a competitive struggle, that everyone is envious of them, that there is always a crowd, and I will wait. And I don't need service to do it. If I'm traveling this far to light my vice, I can take it without service. So why isn't there an adjustment to the fact that when there is a smoking restaurant, there is no operator, following the pattern of European countries we often like to quote? That might as well have been there, and I guess it wouldn't be a problem. And we could've been through this a long time ago in the middle of a hearing. Yes, there are people who smoke, but we're defending non-smokers, and I fully agree that we're defending them, so let's just say there are smoking restaurants without operators. If he wants to eat something there, he has to bring it himself. This wouldn't bother me at all. But by the concept of the law and the fact that it's a government proposal, I warn you, there is, of course, a sub-ordination of approval. And I assume that the government Members will honor the government's proposal, which is why I consider this to be the wrong draft that has been presented here because it is too militant, too purposefully written, and that purposefulness is clear of the words relating to smokers. I want to point out here that - and now I'm gonna repeat myself, I don't want the law to cure me, yes I am a smoker, maybe a hot smoker. Since I'm here in parliament that week, I'm gonna smoke about 20 cigars, two pipes, I have to confess. I'm coming home that week, so maybe I don't smoke at all. I smoke here because I often need to calm down. Yes, many things upset me here. But it may also be a question of why we smokers are such a thorn in the eye of non-smokers. You may have noticed, and I know it from a former job, was a special smoking room, or went out. Three smokers gathered, called ten minutes, and they had fun. [[18.00 hours]] And all of a sudden, there were five non-smokers around the smokers because it was fun. There was something going on there. It's always the most worked out with a cigarette. The social communication of non-smokers is missing because they have no reason to communicate socially. They're going to make coffee in the kitchen, but the coffee's cooking very fast today. He's not there for ten minutes. Social communications are missing. Perhaps it is a certain kind of envy of non-smokers, that they are envious of the possibility of communicating with equally affected people. Perhaps this is also the reason why doctors smoke, why teachers smoke, why they smoke disciplines where the higher level of knowledge of tobacco harmfulness should be significantly greater than in our laymen. Just social communication is what the cigarette also brings. And I think it may also be quite important to tell those smokers that the social plane may be what bothers them. Again, I don't want the law to cure me. I'm aware of my risk. I'm aware that I could die ten years earlier, according to those studies, 12 years earlier, as I read. But that's since 2000. Maybe it's more than that. Medicine's moving forward. I don't want to overuse Czech medicine. No way. But leave it to my free will if I smoke. And leave it to the free will of people who want to set up a smoking restaurant or a smoking café to set it up. We Members will set the parameters for which he should work. Let's just say there must be suction, which if you go in there, it'll rip your hat off your head and suck it up to the ceiling of the ventilator. Let's say there must be carbon filters that won't allow the smoke to penetrate the PM02 fraction. Let's just say that without an absolute waitress, everyone has to go buy it somewhere in the cafeteria and they can go spend their day there. Let's say the size of the facility must be 100 meters, 50 meters, ten square meters. Let's just say that this is the purpose of the law to set conditions. But we disown it. We don't want to deal with this. We're just saying, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And we're gonna ban it across the board, and that way we're gonna show the smokers who's boss here. [[Noise in the hall.]] But it has also been said from the previous speakers that it is, in a way, hypocrisy. Yes, it is. Let's just say that. It's hypocrisy. Is it harmful? Yeah, it is. Yet we tolerate it somehow because we are unable to replace 30 percent of smokers. We're not able to tell them at once, but we want to and we're trying to. That is why I appeal to you who are on the fence, who are not militant, who are not completely sworn opponents of smoking, to you to consider what you decide. But I repeat, I would very much like you not to try to treat me as a smoker by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u47	I thank Mr Luzar. He raised two serious factual points. The first point is Mr. Rom Kostřica, the second is Mr. Adolf Beznoska. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u48	Thank you for the floor. I am far from arguing with Mr Luzar here on the microphone. I don't know what his parents died of, which kind of cancer. I just want to adjust the misconception that people think smoking only causes throat cancer, larynx, and lung cancer. But there are a number of cancers, there are a large majority of them, which are caused by increased consumption of tobacco products, especially cigarettes, and they do not know exactly how this happens. Professor Vyzula would certainly be able to say this disproportionately more as a qualified oncologist. But there are a number of lymphomas, leukemia that have an increased incidence in smokers. There's no dispute about that at all. I just wanted to describe here so that people would realize how these cases sometimes end. I know that Mr. Docent Svoboda certainly knows how these tumors work and end, but his comment that there is a certain protective role in smoking against cancer itself is beyond my understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u49	I thank Mr Rom Kostřic. Before the words are taken by Mr Beznoska, I will quote an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Tomio Okamura and Mr Radim Fiala apologize until the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a quick note. I wanted to respond to Mr Luzar's speech, which he discussed very closely. He also said he was asking for tongue cancer because he's a cigar smoker. However, I must agree with the other parts of his speech because I respect freedom to the maximum extent and I am opposed to horizontal restrictions, because they really never work. My colleague, Svoboda, mentioned prohibition in America. You all know what happened in Russia after Gorbačovův prohibition. So I think we should be very tolerant about this. And if it doesn't interfere with other people's lives and go to a smoking pub, it's really a free choice, then we should leave it to those who do business in those pubs. So I'm going to vote clearly against the ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u51	Thank you, Mr Beznosk, for keeping time on the point of fact. Let's keep going. The words will be taken by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr. Jiří Štětina will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And I beg the peace of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u52	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to Section 11, which concerns the prohibition and restriction of the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages to the public of an open sporting event, with the exception of a beer bar. That's how it used to be in Law No. 379/2005 Coll., I have the impression that this is still the case, with the fact that the development in the preparation of this law has moved in a slightly different direction, because in the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Health, this exception has been maintained, but in the resulting proposal that we have before us, beer or alcoholic drink with an alcohol content of up to four percent, up to four percent of the volume of ethanol. I would like to ask you what this change was caused here, what was the main reason, because I believe that the state that has been paying so far means that the limit was higher than a ten-degree beer, I think it was sufficient and it was also consistent with the custom that was common with us. I don't see why they're forced, say, to limit the quality of beer, to deliver a nine and so on at sporting events. I don't think that's a reasonable move. Perhaps it would be good if the Minister said something about why the outcome is what it is. [[Noise from the left side of the hall.]] Otherwise, of course, I support the bill as a whole, because I believe that dependence on tobacco in our Republic is very high. And I remember very much the efforts of our former fellow Member Janeček, who, for two or three parliamentary periods, has tried to reduce dependence on tobacco, to reduce smoking, and he has failed in the long run because he has opposed the tobacco lobby in particular. I think it is right to proceed in the same way as the countries are moving west of us, where such a significant smoking restriction has taken place. Smoking and addiction to tobacco in general on alcohol is particularly high among young people in our Republic, as well as drug addiction. So I support the bill as such and I believe that this section 11 can be put in its original position as it was in the Act 379/2005 Coll. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u53	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka and Mr Jiří Štětina, who is the last person to sign up for the debate. I will try to lower the House for you, my colleague, because colleagues are visibly disillusioned by the debate. But they are certainly discussing this subject, otherwise they would be discussing outside the O.R. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I didn't write anything down because I've been standing here for at least the fourth time on this microphone, and nothing's happened yet. I do not think that the law has not been passed, I fully agree with that. I complimented the minister here last time, so I won't praise him today if he has an urn here. But I would love for you not to confuse professional matters with political matters. I'm just gonna go back to 2010, when we were negotiating a health program for a coalition agreement. And now I'm talking to my colleagues on the right. Already at that time one of your Members wanted to enforce this law and another Member, you certainly know very well who it was, I will not name it, so there is no way. And as a political absolute rookie, I said, Gentlemen, I don't understand. You're from one side and you're not able to make a deal and you want it in a coalition agreement? And one of them says, well, if one company sponsors us, don't blame us. And it's been clear to me ever since. Guys, let's put aside all these things, which are what we call an attack on freedom, an attack on free enterprise, and let's start acting rationally. I wish it was my last speech to finally get to a vote, order it to the committee, discuss it, and the little things that are in this law, and I welcome not only for smoking, but of course for drugs, for alcohol, so that we finally put the law somewhere and we don't say it here again, so that the wolf eats and the goat stays in one piece. I'd ask you very much, and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u55	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin. That was the last one entered into the debate. Now I would like to make an apology. The Minister of Agriculture has come, he wants to leave again, he apologizes from 6:30 for departmental reasons. And if no one applies to the debate, I am ending the debate and I am asking the Minister's final words and then the rapporteur's. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the debate that has been held on the Government's proposal for a Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of addictive substances. I would like to start by stressing that I am not a militant non-smoking person. However, first of all, I would like to stress that the task of the Minister of Health is to protect the health of the people in particular, and in this respect, I propose the maximum compromise that could be negotiated in this situation. In the framework of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, the bill was sent for the assessment of almost a hundred comment points. The comments were often contradictory and their settlement was very difficult. Also in the Legislative Council of the Government and its committees, the material has been made by changes mainly in the area of definitions, which was then criticised here in the debate by Mr Benda. I repeat that, in my opinion, the material is a compromise in order to include sufficient measures in the area of the protection of the health of the population, it has responded to the international commitments of the Czech Republic in this area, while at the same time being as little as possible a burden for obliged persons. I remind you that the entire government, including the Minister of Industry and Trade, has agreed to the bill. There has been both the support of the bill and a number of comments, which is exactly how this issue is perceived differently across society. I would like to make a brief comment on some of the comments that have been made here. With regard to the total ban on smoking in restaurants and other facilities, there was a proposal for a mitigation in the form of building separate rooms or a mitigation in the sense of exemption from the ban on smoking for rural pubs. To do this again - the main motive for submitting the proposal is to protect the health of not only guests but also employees of these facilities. The total ban on smoking in restaurants is therefore justified. Any modification, smoking shops, distinguishing whether there is a pub in the countryside or in a larger village will not have the necessary effect. Many foreign studies have even confirmed the positive or zero economic impact of smoking bans on the hospitality sector in the countries where it was introduced. As regards the mitigation of the proposal for a full ban on smoking in the case of village pubs, I must stress once again that this proposal seems illogical to me. Moreover, it would be quite irresponsible to distinguish between the approach to protecting the health of staff in villages and cities. All employees have the right to breathe clean air. I would also like to comment on the proposals for reducing regulation for electronic cigarettes. Here I have to say that even in terms of the results of international studies that are taking place, this impact is not entirely clear. That is why I am also prepared to speak in the Committee's discussions on the mitigation of this regulation. Let me also ask Mr Hovorka here for a beer, respectively. then the introduction of four percent alcohol. The change took place in the Government's Legislative Council and we were informed that some 10-stage beers meet this condition, some not. However, here too, we are ready to talk about the adjustment. As part of the debate, there was also a question about the launch of the State Fund for Integrated Drug Policy and the financing of drug policy. The proposal to establish this fund was incorporated into the draft law on the basis of the national drug coordinator's requirements. However, the proposal of the Ministry of Health submitted to the Government did not include this measure. Following the examination of the draft law in the Legislative Council of the Government, on the basis of its requirements, this provision was deleted from the draft law because the establishment of a new state fund was found to be non-systemic. Drug policy should be ensured by central government bodies from state budget funds, where the purpose of these funds for implementing drug policy is ensured by a binding indicator within the relevant chapter of the State budget. I would like to stress that I am also prepared to address the various amendments in committee discussions, to discuss whether, indeed, all measures are set exactly and quite adequately. However, I believe that the meaning of this law will not be denied and that the Chamber of Deputies will support the law, which is the main priority for protecting the health of the population from the consequences of smoking and other substances. Thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u57	Thank you for the Minister's final words. I ask for the final word of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u58	I will be very brief because I think everything has already been said. So just technically: there were about 35 Members and Members in the merged debate, and there were more than four dozen factual points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u59	Since this is a merged debate, Mr Radek Vondráček will still have the final word for press 97. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I won't hold you up. Everything that was supposed to be sounded. I would also ask for the support of the second law, which is essentially minimalist, which is not in a competitive relationship with the ministerial proposal, at least I hope. The minister called him a subset of his proposal today in an interview, if I listened well. So be it, we can discuss him this way. He doesn't play at anything. He's, let's just say, very austere and, in his own way, effective. In theory, it could be an alternative or an alternative to the ministerial one. It is a good thing that he was debated in a merged debate. We, of course, support the ministerial proposal, but I would like to see our proposal, the members of the ANO movement, pass in a dignified way to the second reading, so that he also has a chance of having a good substantive debate in the committees. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-15-ps2013-036-09-003-999.u61	I thank Mr Radek Vondráček. That concludes the merged debate in de facto and final terms, and we can return to individual interrupted points. Let's get back to the interrupted point first.
