ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2016 /German press 617/ - first reading Let's keep going. I have a comment here from my colleague, who was in charge that KDU-ČSL's vice-chairman Klaška is reporting with priority rights. But I find it difficult to maintain priority rights when the club chairman is present... Okay, I guess I can do it now. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Then I'll give room for factual remarks. Mr. Klaška has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues, let me also deliver my position in the ongoing debate on the state budget. And so, as my colleague Stanjura said here, no one's defending the budget, so I'm gonna be one of those guys who might have a little positive comment on the budget. I would like to say that the draft budget follows this year's proactive budget and that it is characterised by three basic aspects: on the one hand, it reduces deficit, is pro-growth and sends other positive signals to the economy. Let me take a closer look at this. I would like to say that we are experiencing a period of solid economic recovery after a long-term massive and global recession for which we cannot, but which has highlighted weaknesses, or has revealed weaknesses in our fiscal policy as well as fiscal policies of other European countries. As I have already said, the draft budget for next year follows up on this year's budget, which was proactive and had the task of supporting economic growth, had the task of promoting employment and the third thing I would like to mention should change sentiment in the economy, i.e. the mood, had to change from the negative one that was still here last year to the positive one. I think it has succeeded that today the public and the population are looking at the economy in a much more positive way than last year, the distrust is much smaller. The first of the characteristics of the budget, as I mentioned it, is that it reduces the deficit from 100 billion. CZK, which was burdened with the draft budget for this year, at 70 billion, i.e. by 30 billion. less. It is a good thing that in years when economic growth is going well either saves or at least reduces the deficit as in previous years and, according to the medium-term perspective, it will decrease even further, or the deficit plan will continue to decrease even further up to where possible balanced management. I consider this an obvious and correct move. When we look at the budgets of the years past, I perceive that there was a period of economic growth, but the deficit did not decrease, on the contrary, money was being pumped into the economy. But I also know the period, for example. The years 2010 to 2012, when, in the years of the skinny, recession, under the auspices of or mantra of the deficit reduction, the recession in which our country was, in turn, has been prolonged, has resulted in, among other things. The fact that unemployment was increasing and the fact that he was saving the deficit, on the other hand, he had to give more money to support unemployment or to pay unemployment benefits, and he also had to bail out health and pension insurance more. So, on the one hand, we were reducing the deficit, but on the other hand, the state had to give more money because there was higher unemployment. I would therefore like to say that it is a good thing that the draft budget for 2016 is positive in reducing the deficit. There is another circumstance in this context worthy of consideration, as it is rightly expected that the actual deficit of this year will be lower, perhaps significantly lower than the planned 100 billion. Crowns. It was the same way last year. If we want a higher pace of deficit reduction, which is certainly a legitimate debate here, whether it should be more or how many billions of crowns, we can say: let's be solidarity, let's all pay taxes as we have, as the Ministry of Finance tries to point out in its steps. We can also, of course, save expenses. I'd like to point out something here that hasn't been pointed out much so far. It is also possible to save expenses by properly and timely doing maintenance and repair of movable and immovable property, not until ex post, when it costs much more money. The second aspect. As last year, the draft budget supports economic growth. Today, that economic growth, we can classify or characterize it as stable and relatively massive, at least in the sense that it goes across different sectors of the national economy. As a pro-growth budget proposal, I see that it also supports investment, particularly in transport infrastructure, in science, research, innovation. Other priorities of the government include defence, because we are fulfilling NATO's allied commitments of only fifty per cent, also increased spending on our security, this has to do with the overall security situation and immigration, with the immigration wave. The budget also devotes itself to education in an increased way. It's already been discussed today. I have to say that this year, despite the criticism of the opposition, we have been able to watch a great deal of activity on our motorways, roads and railroads in the repair of roads and roads. We've never seen so many shut-downs and so many roundabouts before, but it also meant a big delay in traffic jams. [[14.40 hours]] All of this has happened despite the miserable state of the art in the preparation of new transport investments from previous years. Unfortunately, I have to say that many repairs have shown the impact of the decimated capacities of domestic national companies, and this, of course, prolongs the repairs. Unfortunately, this is the effect of the deficit reduction at the wrong time. There is yet another issue involved, which is increasing wages in the state sector, as well as this year, and the private sphere has joined it, so hopefully the private sphere will join it for a year. I never thought that a reasonable increase in salaries within the limits of gross domestic product growth options - that it was never simply eating the budget or the economy, that it was a matter of household consumption. Household consumption is a standard macroeconomic tool far greater strength and efficiency than the entire state budget. After all, household consumption is the main driver of today's economic growth in the Czech Republic. I would therefore like to say that the draft budget for next year is still sending positive signals to the economy, still encouraging the positive sentiment that there is no need to be afraid of the economy and that it is possible to invest and manage, to plan things for the future. Finally, let me say that I do not share the criticism of the opposition that I perceive the draft budget, which has the three aspects: it reduces deficit, is pro-growth and still sends positive signals to the economy. And hopefully next year it will be the same as last year and this year, and if the deficit is higher than the planned draft state budget, the surplus, the collection of possible taxes on higher economic growth than planned, will also be devoted in a significant way to further deficit reduction. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u3	Thank you. Now we have two factual points. Mr Laudát, followed by Mr Beznoska, Mr Beznoska, the newly elected President for the FAO's control. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm here to respond, if you remember the debate before lunch, to my colleague Urban. No one on the right said that the state didn't actually have a chance to influence economic growth or anything like that. Indeed, the Minister of Finance, since he understands everything, would tell you very quickly here that such a statement cannot be said by a person who knows, because only that there is 42,6 % in our Republic in 2014 - a share of GDP - is made up of the public sector. For your information, in 2013, it was 42.6 - the same percentage value. In 2012, it was 44.5 %. That's where you can see it's modeling the crisis. That means the private sector is falling because of the recession. This means that the influence of the public sector, which, when held by government, has greater inertia, is increasing. In 2011, it was 49,9%. Just so you know, the last number. The average of the European Union, which is already approaching socialism, is 50-50, it is 48.2%. With the average being significantly pulled up there, for example, such countries as France, which, you know, find itself a little hopeless in terms of economic progress in the next decades. So just so much for your information. It's one thing to inge into that sector, the other thing is that the state can't control anything at all. That's not true. When you introduce the EET, if you manage to introduce it through our steps, you will see that it can inerge. It can inerge by freedom, then positively, or by control, by stalking, then negatively. Mr. Klaška, I assume a colleague from the ODS will respond. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I'm going to cool off his comments about traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u5	Thank you. Mr. Beznoska, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, I will really respond to Mr Klaška's words for a moment. He mentioned four points here and by supporting the budget, which I understand, of course, because he is a coalition MP, first of all he spoke of the state budget deficit as being a reduction, which is true and we are all happy about it. The dispute between us is whether the decline in the deficit is enough. From our point of view, it really is not with the current relatively stable and robust growth of the economy. I remind you that we had the last balanced state budget in 1995. When do we want to think about starting to cut past debts gradually before it is during a favourable economic situation? So I can't agree here. What I can't agree with at all is that the budget is set as pro-growth. Because my colleague Klaška said he was investing, and I will remind you - this is the debate that took place here in the morning - that investments in the draft state budget are approximately CZK 78 billion, that even from national sources less money is given than in the period of economic crisis. So I don't see it as a massive investment and pro-growth. I also cannot agree with the support of science, research and innovation. In absolute terms, it is relatively the same stable support. The percentage of GDP in 2013 is a decrease from 0.98% of GDP to 0.77%. Thus, in proportion to gross domestic product, the promotion of science, research and innovation declines. So what's said here can't be true again. As far as employment is concerned, yes, I agree, employment is favourable. Of course, it has to do with the economic cycle, with the economic recovery. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] It is natural that employment opportunities can be found in times of economic growth. More next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u7	Thank you, too. A point of fact - Mr Klaška. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I do not want to argue at all, or I understand, Mr Beznoska, that yes, that is the difference between the views on whether or not the pace of deficit reduction is adequate. One may have an opinion like that, the other may, of course, be completely legitimate. I mentioned here that there are more possibilities, but what is important, what I consider important, is the trend. When the trend is still decreasing in the period of growth. And one other thing I mentioned is that one thing is a matter of plan, that means a draft budget, and then an ex post is just reality. So then we can also assess how the deficit is going to turn out, or it can end up with regard to predicted and then real growth in gross domestic product. We have basically the same view of employment because it is an important variable, either unemployment and somebody has to pay for it, those health and pension funds, and either employees and their employers contribute to it, and if these people are unemployed, then they have to stand. And if he doesn't have to stand up, logically, he can donate the funds elsewhere. So I think it's perfectly okay. If I may, I still have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u9	There's still time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u10	About the growth. I think that we are still dealing with the preparation of new investments that have been slowed down at the time, which has already been discussed here once. Of course, the preparation of such line constructions, such as highways or 1st-class roads, and so on, are things that last for many years in today's investment process. So unfortunately, here we can all cry over spilled milk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Gabal, factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u12	Thank you. Mr President, government, colleagues, colleagues, I have taken the resolution not to make any significant assessment of the previous period, but one thing I must say. Now that we're talking about the deficit, we've taken over some of the areas just so underfunded, underinvested, and with such a large internal debt, and I can only talk about the area where I'm kind of looking at it that it just needs to be added. We really inherited an area that, from the point of view of investment and basic assumptions to make it work, has been cut off for ten years. So now it has to be invested and debt is added. I'm sorry, thank you. I'm talking about defense, for example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u13	Mr Kučera, also a factual remark, i.e. two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to respond to Mr Gabal. Mr Gabal, through Mr President, you are investing less, you are eating through the money. Look at the numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u15	A real comment from the Minister of Finance, please. If you want more than two minutes, you can have priority rights. If that's enough for you in two minutes... [[I'll try.]] Well, I'll give you priority rights, it'll be easier. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Too bad Mr. Stanjura and Mr. Kalousek aren't here. I'd like to finally show these investments, because here they manipulate numbers and the truth is completely different. I mean, the state works very complicatedly and why it wouldn't complicate its life with investment planning. This is the table that Mr. Stanjura showed. [[He's showing the chart.]] Here we have a blue state budget and yellow are European funds and funds. That budget's been changing for over a year. This means that in 2011 the budget was originally 104,9 billion. and the reality was 118.9 on the basis of budgetary changes and 7 billion were not exhausted. In 2012, the budget was 96,9 and the fact 113,6 and it was exhausted (?) plus 2. [[no]] And now it's the critical year 2013, to which Mr Kalousek refers, and there was a budget of 97 and the reality was 102.3 and in the finals against budgetary changes the 13.7 was not exhausted. And now we're coming into the new government's period, which means budget 2014, 74.3 billion. and the reality 111.5 billion. So 2014, 2013 we invested 9.2 billion. more. Now let's look at the 2015 budget, which is 75,8 billion, but in 2015 there were 8,500 budget changes. This means that the budget today is 127.2 billion in budgetary changes. And then the resorts involved the demands, so we're at 205,7 billion. The 21st. 10. 2015 we draw 106,5 billion. compared to budget 75,8. Then don't say we're not investing. We invest, and massively. It's not my fault that the state is showing its investments that way. It's just like with the budget. I calculate without European money, I have zero there, and then I have transactions in European money. That's why the deficit was 25 billion this morning. 100 billion on the plan, by the way. That's just so we know where we are. So it's not true, we're increasing the investment, and here's the proof. That there's some kind of table, which, of course, everyone interprets in some way, and that's the right way to interpret it. So I can add that I'm going to give the officials the task of giving you an instructional block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u17	Yes. We have two factual points. The first is Mr Kalousek and then Mr Beznoska. So please, two minutes for Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, there's no point in going into detail, but everything the Minister of Finance has just said is about as relevant information as being investigated by the police under the Code of Criminal Procedure. A person who is objectively making false statements is able to bet on them and then doesn't pay the bets, is absolutely untrustworthy, you can't trust him at all, even today's date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u19	Mr. Beznoska? He's downloading. In that case, Mr Jiří Dolejš has the floor and Mr František Laudát will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Lovely surprise, from 9.15 the first logged in to the discussion. I believe you've been looking forward to me all along, so allow me to present the opinion of the KSČM club on the draft budget. I believe that it was worth paying attention for at least one reason, and the way I listened to this morning's competition of lords with priority rights, it almost seemed for a while as if it was a dispute between the previous ruling and the current ruling about who better keeps this not quite satisfactory state of our economy going, whether those who have made the crisis worse during the crisis or those who are carrying on a wave of booms began to spend, and the question is whether they are spending on the right things. We believe that a different view of economics is possible than to decide whether he is mature for the diploma of his colleague Kalousek, or Vice Prime Minister Babiš, the diploma of the best Minister of Finance. In short, we are not debating some accounting relations today, but a debate on the concept of economic and, in particular, budgetary policy. And here, let me make one more comment. I sometimes hear from my colleagues in the true opposition that this government has a kind of voting reserve in the voices of the leftist opposition, and that they are the only ones who criticize the government sufficiently, because they are the bearer of the reason that the debate with the opposition brings. But, of course, the strongest opposition club is the KSČM club and the weight of 33 KSČM mandates, if it is to be tilted somewhere, it must be consistent with its ideas, its program and in this case, as in many other cases, it is simply not. If we were quite tolerant in 2014 when approving the budget, it was because there were extraordinary elections, that the budget could not be redesigned in the same way, and that the damage caused by the budgetary commission would be much more serious. When colleagues from the true opposition launched the canonade on the government when preparing the 2015 budget, we also did not like the budget, but we thought that simply the government in its programming statement, when promising certain things, so that it needed some time to start, and that it was more or less putting out some problems and disabilities caused by governments in the previous period. But now the government has no claim to our long - suffering because, after all, there will be a half-life of its rule, and if they wanted to decide some important things, they could certainly have prepared them. This brings me to the essence of budgetary policy, to how the mix of measures on the revenue and expenditure side is mixed, and so whether the government has actually drawn up the budget so responsibly that it can repeat its mantra without fail that the budget is both consolidation and pro-growth, etc. etc. There were a lot of words on the subject of fiscal consolidation. The problem is that the real opposition only imagines consolidation in a simple way - to cut spending. But, of course, budgetary policy must fulfil certain positive functions, it must keep some systems running, even consolidate them, deepen them, improve them. [[15.00 hours]] We can only get into a situation where some parameters will improve in a given year, but the functioning of the system will get worse and some expenditures will only be postponed for a less convenient period. Therefore, it follows that we need to ask ourselves the basic question of whether we should consider something somewhat alternative. I've talked about alternative thinking a few times since this place. And it will certainly not be a secret for you if I stress, for example, in relation to the revenue side of the state budget, that the compromise that the government has logically entered into by linking difficult-to-connect approaches, that it will not touch taxes, so that it is not happy that if it has prepared some standards to improve tax collection, the improvement will either appear inadequate or may be delayed. I will not be dramatizing the fact that the budget is based on some legal standards that are not yet approved, but it is definitely worth noting that it does not have to, even if it does make it to the third reading of the state budget, bring the fiscal effect that is expected. After all, we all remember when the bill on electronic records of sales appeared, that calculations appeared in the considerations, that it could bring up to 10 billion. CZK per tax return. The number has not been repeated, in fact, many numbers are no longer listed, perhaps even for the simple reason that the effect of this law has broken down over time and that the group that perceives it most sensitively, which are small entrepreneurs and businessmen, so now they can enjoy some hope, I don't know if it is justified hope that they will be able to see the effect maybe in 2017, so in the next year they will not bring a crown into the register. And I could go on like this. It is good that there are undoubtedly more intensively chasing subjects who commit tax crime, etc., but these are not effects such as those of order that they can compensate the care for the larger tax return that we would need if we do not destruct the set-up public systems. And here, in vain fame, but the main recipe is the one that many countries in the European Union have, and that is tax progression. Why take money from the small ones, why cling to the tax administration when we know that the effects may be larger in the long term, but so far measurable effects are in the order of 1, 2, 3 billion, so why not look for money where they really are in a competitive way at the level of the surrounding countries. I know it's kind of taboo. But does the political representation elected by our citizens decide in this country, or does the main corporations in this country decide which, of course, do not want it? I think the answer is obvious that we live in a parliamentary republic and not in a corporate state. So that's when it comes to alternative thinking. Now, allow me to respond to one tiny remark that may have eluded you somewhat, and that of my colleagues Kalousek, when defending his approaches, means that the economy that is at an upward stage in the business cycle should return what it pumped into the economy at the time of recession, and that the technocrat is essentially considering this regardless of whether it is going to the ballot box, looking to the right or left. He used a phrase that even a Keynesian would have to agree to this. Well, the mechanism is, of course, well known in the macroeconomic theory, but it's a little bit more complicated than that. Firstly, the question is to what extent, when you call someone a Keynesian, whether they automatically belong to the left side of the political spectrum, because the legacy of Lord Keynes after World War II is so heterogeneous that even right-wing Keynesians are found, see Neo-Keynesianism is now part of a practical mainstream that stabilizes the economy in a similar way to that of this or the previous government. But if we wanted to look for really left-wing keynesians, it's probably the closest thing to, say, Cambridge school leaders, which are postkeynesians like Joan Robinsonová, who are far from just solving the consolidation problem, but they notice that the economy's engines are also backed up by wealth distribution mechanisms and that this redistribution may be far more important than balancing with the help of anticyclical policy. And the government is not very interested in this subject, although I have heard from the Prime Minister that consumer optimism is spreading in the country. But what is this consumer optimism based on? The fact that the media do not give us every day facts about the economic crisis and that we are reassured by the messages of the country's economic growth. But the problem is that from this economic growth, consumers have a much smaller part, that wage increases are definitely not what they could be, valorizing minimum wages, pensions and all these matters is at a very partial level, and sometimes handing out small gifts makes things as important as correcting injustices towards disabled people. I think that there is far from a climate for consumer optimism in this country and that, in particular, poorer fellow citizens cannot be optimistic. With regard to economic development and to what extent we are at an increasing stage in the economic cycle, well, that is a question, just for the simple reason that we live in the European Union. This is a relatively uniform economic area and, of course, effects are transmitted in this relatively single economic area. So we can't separate that from the evolution around us. When you look at the numbers, a positive deviation from our surroundings, which is clear this year, whatever happens in those two months, it will be about 4 percent, but it is not given, and after all, both opposition and coalition MEPs have confirmed it here, it is not given by the cycle phase, it is not given by the efforts of this government, but it is simply given by the fact that we have spent money that we have not spent in time in the European budget cycle 2007 to 2014, and therefore actually in the next year there will be a slowdown in growth. Moreover, the slowdown to 2,5 percent may not occur because, once again, when we look at the surrounding area, the euro area estimates 1.8 percent this year, in the next year 1.9 percent. On what is the assumption that it will be better for us if we do not draw European money? The thought of how much more we invest in the economy is really to some extent questionable. Nobody's saying we don't invest in the economy. Government capital spending exists and is in the order of tens of billions, but it is not possible to talk about any significant fiscal impulse. No way, because if we took the real numbers achieved last year, the planned ones are lower. That's just reality, no matter what graph we're showing here. That's right. Of course, a plan is a plan, and real numbers can be different. This means that if we succeed in overcrowding, we can give out more, but I do not think that this time there is enough cotton in this draft budget so that we can take relatively massive budgetary measures during the year to improve this side of the matter. [[15.10 hours]] From the prognostic risks that may materialize in the next period, I have already mentioned the not very consolidated development in our European environment. The development of 1.8, 1.9 in the euro area can be even worse if the German economy does not tread as it imagined. This year, he's expecting one percent plus. If not only the reputational risk, but the condition of Volkswagen itself will be greater than they are willing to admit so far, then, of course, Germany can approach stagnation values and this simply needs to be reflected in the condition of the Czech economy. Another such parameter, which is not much discussed here, but is certainly worth considering, is that so far the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank has announced the will to hold the commitment of intervention monetary policy until mid-2016. They've repeated that several times, let's believe it. But that also means that in the second half of next year, there may be a withdrawal, an exit from this commitment. This would also mean that the Czech koruna will return to the values where it once was, i.e. roughly that is the difference of two crowns, which cannot have an impact on foreign trade. Not to mention losing our appeal to capital. And I really don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but in order to maintain that capital, it's even possible to imagine a Swiss script. I remind you, something similar happened to the Švýcar at the beginning of this year, and it certainly did not make the depositors happy that they had to pay the price of a negative appreciation of their money. So that's a whole series of risks that lead to caution, and that certainly do not support the view that actually an overheated economy could save much more. They do not support the idea that this budget would be corrected by a much greater reduction in the range of 20, 30 billion, as spoke of by colleagues from the genuine opposition. So what can be done about the state budget structure? I fear that with such a conceptual budget, where tax laws are basically no longer changeable except for the three titles that are in progress, the mandatorial expenditures are also due to legislation. So let's at least think about what the state budget is really structurally wrong about, and let's separate a certain correction, the rationalization of the expenditure that is feasible at second reading, from, let's say, how this budgetary policy could look better in the future, so that we can actually achieve the change that has been discussed so much before the elections, and now it's kind of not really tangible. From these structural requirements, I think, first of all, I am going back to the issue of income. I am afraid that if the economy does not continue to succeed this year next year and some, I do not say all, but some prognostic risks will occur, so that the lack of resources will lead to a reopening of the question of tax progression. So far, you're throwing it out of your mind. I understand that coalition hygiene, which is already limited by enough disturbed relationships, is in charge of not talking about some things. It's like a rope in a hanged man's house, but you can't just run away from it. In short, I think that we should refer ourselves in this respect to those more advanced and normally thinking countries that are not afraid of these issues. Another thing is the calibration of this change. But don't banish her completely. As far as spending is concerned, I have already said that it is better to rationalise expenditure than to reduce expenditure. Otherwise structure. In addition to social expenses, and there I will refer to my factual remark, which I had here in the morning, really mandatorial expenses, if we take the percentage of mandatorial expenses or gross domestic product, so they are designed at a level that is roughly the same as in 2012. That's just the way it is. So I see no reason to reduce this area. But let us discuss whether it is spent effectively. Rationalize yes, but not reduce. 'Cause I think the level of mandatorial spending isn't much different from the advanced states. And that is true because the mandatory expenditures are different, especially for social expenditures. If we take purely social expenses, we move there again at the level of about 2012, about 13 percent I suspect. And those more advanced countries in Europe, where, of course, they have a higher economic level, but yet the share of social expenditure on gross domestic product is around one fifth. So when the economy collects its breath after the crisis fast, there's no reason why social spending is an important part of the mandatorial spending, why to reduce it. But both prosperity and economic growth are not driven by consumption and demand. Of course, it is important to ask yourself if there is anything more that can be done for growth. Growth policy, of course the right, believes more in the motivation of the private sector, the private element, i.e. the indirect support of the economic environment. But even the most righteous states are watching over a certain intensity and especially the continuity of public investment, and, of course, for each investment item, they are considering a multiplier effect, that is, how quickly and in what intensity an increase from each crown thus spent will occur. So this is about rationalising expenditure and, let's say, a different view of managing the budget, because it seems to me to be very binding on the endless bickering of two government garnitures that are more or less alternating, but for a citizen out there, it feels like it's becoming more and more the same, and yet economic practice has long moved somewhere else. For example, I mentioned the taboo issue of budgetary progression. If you ask the representatives, not the owners, I think I understand there, but the managers from the corporate sphere, they will say that they will, of course, prefer not to pay so much tax, but that for them the question of investment opportunities is much more important, the question of business conditions from legal infrastructure to engineering infrastructure. And I think it's worth the attention. And I'd really like us to start asking ourselves more strategic questions from this dual debate, whether it's better Babiš or Kalousek. It is clear that the 2016 budget can no longer be constructed conceptually. But if we don't want to wait for either early elections or any other problems, let's at least try to open up this debate, go back to some topics, because then it's hard to explain to people how excellent it is and how responsible the budget is when one claims: yes, it can't be better, and others say: only we would be cutting more. But most outside, whether they are consumers or economic leaders, think that this should be done more actively and that the problem should be sought somewhere else entirely. So I'd be done with that. I'll repeat the main thing. What I said is why our scepticism that the government does not have an adequate budgetary policy is that this time we will vote for the proposed resolution clearly not! So no delay. First of all. Secondly, I think that the remedy for such a controversial budget, which is more marked by coalition compromises than the vision of economic policy, so that the recipe is not the attempt by colleagues to cut another 20, 30 billion. Take where you can, preferably on biofuels subsidies or something like that I can imagine. Because I think that would bring us back to a time when insensitive fiscal restrictions only made things worse. [[15.20 hours]] So I am just saying that the resolution will return to the recast with this assignment that it will not support our club either. There is indeed a third, perhaps a fourth approach between these two approaches, but we should finally start talking about it, because that is the main thing. So much in a nutshell the core position of our faction, so much for today's message. I'm not going to, let's say, quantitatively make myself visible here by constantly reporting to the actual debate with the numbers, because I think that's secondary, if not less important. But the strategic consideration is essential. And we're really not in a situation where tertium non datumr, that is, there is no third option. There is. Just pay attention to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u21	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš for presenting the opinion of the KSČM MEP. Allow me, before I give the floor to the next party in the debate, to state my apologies. For working reasons, Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel apologizes for the whole day, for the period from 16.35 for the working reasons of Mrs Marta Semelová, a positive report - Minister of Transport Dan Ťok cancels his apology and is already here. Mr František Laudát will now take the floor, Mr Tomio Okamura will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really glad the ministers were here for a while, some of them seemed to have arrived, but they probably don't have the patience to listen to these things anymore. They may find it baffling, but then there is a relatively broad arrogance in the future. I take it that even I, perhaps others here say lots of times cotton wool, but in between they could listen to some things that might be an inspiration to them. And if it's not worth it, I'm sorry, and that's what the government's job looks like. I originally wanted to discuss a lot of investments here, but in a debate where 77 billion is more than 118, I don't know what to think about it anymore. Minister Babiš here responded to a colleague of Stanjura from ODS. He's just wrong, he's wrong, and it's really starting to remind the deaf, because clearly even the graph that he was showing here, so just when economic growth dropped at negative numbers, those values were bigger on investments than they are today. And I remember when he said it was necessary to save on expenses, that it was wasted, that there was little investment, you didn't invest in motorways, etc. So what's fascinating is the fact that people trust him. She's just like the White Lady, where there's the final scene where they march with the bridge, and they march with the river without the bridge. I just don't know what to say anymore. But, unlike my previous speaker, I'm going to stick to the austere numbers. As regards capital expenditure, i.e. investments: 2011. Expenditure from the state budget from the sources of the Czech Republic 40.7 billion, European Union 64,2 billion, total CZK 104,9 billion. 2011. When you find statistics, 2011 started a second wave, this time a debt crisis in European economies, when GDP growth stagnation and decline. So 104,9 billion. These are cleared official real Treasury numbers. So the planned 104,9 billion, 118.9 was a real draw. That this is different is due to the fact that some projects are simply released somewhere and mostly financed by the European Union, so it will jump in, it is not that some numbers are being uploaded. It's really happening today. 2012. Plan 96.9 billion, reality 113.6 billion. 2012 I feel that the recession was gratified. 2013. Plan 97 billion, reality 102.3 billion crowns. 2014. Plan 74.3 billion, reality 111.5 billion. That means: there are more than 111.5 billion against the 118.9 billion recession, in my opinion. 2015. Plan 75,8 billion, and I think the minister here said 127 billion. [[Help from the diaper: 205 billion.]] 205 billion. It's a frenzied drawdown of funds over the past period. I say when we do the state's final account, it's for discussion. You do not deny, Minister, that you are planning CZK 77.7 billion for 2016 and that it is CZK 44.5 billion from national sources. They're your numbers. If you remember the debate during the last budget, the great penzion of contributions, and I don't know if it would be 70, 80 percent, I didn't do statistics, I can't do it, but it was for the state to spend insufficient funds on science, research and innovation from public budgets. I'm sorry, but if there's anyone I'd like to see in this budget, it would be Minister Bělobrádek. As I recall, at first reading, at least a substantial part of the discussion, if not the whole, was not here either. Then at some, I think, second or third reading, I don't know, so he said he didn't actually know what we were talking about. I suppose even in second or third readings, if there are repeated complaints about non-financing or insufficient funds for this key segment of the economy, so that it will again say that it doesn't understand us, or it will say something personal to cover up its own abilities. My colleague Klaška here said that the support of science and research is growing and that it is a positive development. I don't know. R&D expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product 2012 0.97%, 2013 0.98%, 2014 0.95%, therefore this was just below 1%. 0.78% is planned for this year and 0.77% for next year, i.e. We're already at 45 percent, or we're close to 45 percent. Perhaps a fellow Member in the style of government - say what you want, we write the numbers we want, we argue that everything is OK, so we simply say the exact opposite of reality. I hope we can still agree that 100 is 100, 77 is 77. If not, I'm referring again to the film. I am sorry for the fact that if the government could simply find resources in crisis years, and I can say that if the state should do something, it is precisely for the future that we have such a stable economy to create social potential, it is precisely in favour of innovation. [[15.30 hours]] We do not succeed in a completely competitive world, with the private sector covering it, for about 80 percent of the costs of innovation and development are borne by the private sector in our country. And if someone chops up the other 20 percent, that's exactly the gap that's wasting our competitiveness. Trade unions, Social Democrats and People's Party are repeating over and over again how low wages are here, that it needs to be increased. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to build private business entities in particular, that we will be ordering them, through trade union pressures, what wages they are supposed to pay employees. Who knows technology companies, they know that this is the very segment of the economy where social potential is created, where they not only feed themselves, but are able to give significantly higher salaries than the minimum wages today than average wages. You know the reality, too. And you're cutting off this sector. You're really doing exactly what unionists want. That's why I call it - I don't want to start a war on many fronts - a union budget. That means it's not an investment budget. There is no way. If I took some almost minus 5 percent drop at the time of the biggest crisis or over 4 percent, today plus 4, we have a difference of 10 percent or 9 or 8. So please do not take the necessary commodities or segments of the economy into account in the planned figures for the future, and at least copy and add to accelerate the economy, not suffocate it. The full extent of your actions, which you have so much praise here today, people will feel on their skin when the recession comes. Then what's someone gonna have to do with all those extra civil servants, those swell-headed mandatorial expenses? And it's always a problem to roll over the budget. Apart from Margaret Thatcherová's butchers, no one dares do that in today's era to make forceful cuts from day to day, because everyone is afraid, and people still behave in the style of what is at home, that's what counts. I am only sorry that you will completely resign from this budget to reverse this development, to create even greater potential by reducing state debt in absolute amount, by reducing it by resigning from budgetary responsibility. You do not need to create reserves, but the smaller the government debt, the more you automatically create space in the event of a crisis to bridge this crisis with the least possible victims of socialism. You're not doing it. The situation from the Sobotka Finance Minister's era is exactly repeating itself. At that time, there was even more than 6% growth and the state managed the deficit. You don't have to go far. Take an example from Germany. Germany for twenty years, even in the era of socialism, when someone was trading phosphates, someone sat, persistently, almost skeptically, because it did not directly increase the efficiency of the economy, but strongly invested in science, research, material engineering, etc. Sometime in the mid-1980s, I spoke to one of the scientists, and he said that Germany has a huge disillusionment with the government, that they jumped up and maintain high levels of funding and spending on research in natural sciences, and it doesn't produce results. Well, in 20 years, they managed to get results. The company has gone to a completely different level. The kind you're dreaming of today, but you're doing the exact opposite of politics. As I said, I would go back to that, but if there's anything I'm sorry about, it's absurd that by the time the government gets a vice-premiere for science, research and innovation, the support of this segment is falling. Of course, I have now heard - and it was one of two reasons why two sub- budgets last year from the relevant committees were not approved. One was the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, due to the item treatment of finances for the remediation of old burdens after mining. But the more substantial amount was that suddenly there was an item gone, or there was a zero in the place where there was one billion to support the innovation of small businesses. Now you are covering this with rhetoric about what huge money is reserved for us in the European Union. I just want to say that the amount at first glance will be impressed, but on the one hand, the money won't be too dynamic, I suppose, this year. It's for the whole programming period, so whether you want to or accidentally confuse the public. For another, you are rushing the Republic into this most important segment of support for the future in a situation that we already know from the Transport Department today from the construction of transport infrastructure. Practically most of the new investments are drawn from the European Union's resources. And if, by chance, the European Union decides to deal with urgent problems in a significant way and reaches for some reduction, we will stand before getting used to it. To my colleague Klašek about investing in the roads. I agree with that, and I'm glad the Minister of Transport hears it. It's not true you sent the situation to another trajectory. Last year, and these are objective numbers, and we can argue about this on the basis of statistics, when I take from the beginning of the construction of motorways and express roads, and that was 1970, when of course it was logically zero, so I had to make a whole time series over the years - you had the seventh worst result in all history, i.e. That was about 45 years ago. The seventh worst. With the fact that only one section of the express road from Hrádek nad Nisou in the length of 7.3 km was put into operation from new investments, if I remember correctly the number, towards Zittau. Nothing else. I don't know how many kilometers of roads and highways are gonna be open this year, but it's definitely not gonna be a blow, maybe even a zero. I really don't know now. I'm preparing the statistics for my two-year anniversary, so I don't have the numbers yet and I'll wait for the deadline of the year. Mr Klaška is right about the fact that the citizens may have noticed, and it really worked that a lot of construction started. Well, it's a waste of money, but not in a bad way. Every stretch, every bridge you can fix is just fine. Every road you fix, one, two, three or highway, or R, is positive. However, there are massive small investments in lower class roads that are simply the result of the fact that they were not and are not prepared to invest more in the country's key arteries. That's the real reason. You're here all the time, and a colleague of Klaška did it, referring to the unfortunate period of Mr. Bárta's ex-minister. I feel like it was 2010, 2011, I don't know when his era ended. Then the ministers took turns there some time after a few months. However, after him, the preparation was restored in some way. And how many years would you need to get it into some kind of regular continuous dynamic - design, preparation, public consultation and building, some kind of system condition? How many years would that take? I would like to say today that the blackout caused by Minister Prachař is significantly more pronounced and substantial in investing in the new transport infrastructure than it was in Mr Bárta's era. The figures on the working kilometres of motorways and expressways are very clear about this. [[15.40 hours]] Otherwise, as far as investing or not investing money is concerned, logically, you have not improved anything. I'm sorry, and I'd welcome it myself. You guys know I'm a big fan at the DMV, so no long circles around here. But on your coat, on your mark, there's a dysfunctional amendment to the Land Purchase Act that was supposed to speed it up. The amendment to your amendment is therefore already tabled across the political spectrum. You guys have been trying to stop us here for nothing, at all costs, from accepting our proposal with a colleague named Stanjura. You needed a few months for what he wrote from Monday to Tuesday even in two variants, even if there was a little bit more, but for that important one evening, you needed it from May, when it was clear that the novel was not working. On the Economic Committee, I urged your Minister of the Environment, or his Deputy Minister, and you may not deny that a minimalist option should be adopted on the mandatory amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act due to the trivial situation, the slow manner of discussion. It is your fault, or your minister, that it has not been accepted from the point of view of the time minimalist option in order to speed up the procedure on the backbone network. Of course, your rhetoric, your Chairman Babiš, goes hand in hand. He said earlier that right-wing governments were responsible. If you've noticed one of his statements, I think last week or a week ago he said it was the law. There's already some movement here. We too were trapped in European legislation, in the trap of expropriation processes, but as you can see, it is not that simple. And you've got worse results than the previous governments have. So don't talk about investing. Transport constructions that are starting this year, and thank God for it, on D3, on R4, so these are all things that, if Mr. Prachař had not stopped, he did not order studies the 50th first and 60th or 100th for the same, so he could have started last year or previous year. It falls on his shirt in full. And the fall, the loss of two construction seasons, is sad and grim all the more, that I believe, and were then prepared by a colleague ex-minister Stanjura projects for the rapid pumping of finance from all the various resorts to the transport department, that Mr Prachař is responsible for failing to do so and we will not exhaust many billions unnecessarily from the European Union. So that's what you tell people. Unfortunately, and I say unfortunately, we all drive the roads, we all want people to work in technological operations, if possible to make a lot of money for companies, but you're just making their environment worse, or in a better case, you're not helping them. On the contrary, some of your ideas will contribute to the deterioration of the business environment. As far as this budget is concerned, it is only a wasted chance which may now be offered, and it is directly offered to create more certainty for the future. You're on your way to buy certain voting groups. It is a policy of social democracy. But then at least the rest of the coalition, please don't convince them that you're middle or even right-wing parties. After all, the ANO movement showed it here yesterday during the vote on closings on major holidays in the year of hypermarkets, or shops over 200 square meters. In order not to say, as in the spirit of KDU, some vote in favour, others abstain, some oppose. Anything we can use, the group will pick up. I mean, you can see we've got MPs like that in there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u23	That was Mr. František Laudát. He raised two factual points, first Mr Milan Urban, then Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and then the third. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, my role is certainly not to be Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka's bodyguard, and somehow to protect him here at all costs, but why not, when the truths are said here. Repeated untruths, and that's the year 2002 and 2006. Yes, that was economic growth, yes, there were deficits. But why were there deficits? And that's what needs to be said. Because at that time, social democracy as the dominant political party in the government had to deal with debts that arose from so-called banking socialism. You guys privatized, but somehow you forgot about the banks. Banks were basically robbed and then some 500 to 600 billion. Every year the state bailed out, every citizen of the Czech Republic through the state budget. That's why there were deficits. So please, whenever you repeat this nonsense, I will always respond in some way. [[Let's hear it for Mr. Foldyna.]] That's one thing. But while I'm here, I'm gonna use my time. I think the budget is quite harmonious. If I blame him, it's two things. First, the form, the way the budget is established. I just don't like it, ministers, that it seems as if you have to go to the Ministry of Finance and kneel on the last step and ask for some resources where the public doesn't hear priorities after that, but the Minister of Finance gave, the Minister of Finance didn't give, the Minister of Finance concluded and so on. I think it's the coalition government, so please don't do that next time. It looks really bad. Be a little more confident about this. I know it's my advice when I'm not in government, but it doesn't look good or it doesn't say anything about priorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u25	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u26	One last thing. Comment on the budget -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u27	Ambassador, don't force me to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u28	Then let me hear three words. Comment on it unitedly, not each one separately for your own benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u29	You're straining my patience. A real comment by Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ambassador Urban, I'm commenting on this for the government. I don't see what's unusual about ministers going to the Ministry of Finance, where there are several officials involved, who then make up the budget. I went to see some ministers. I don't know why that remark. I would like to stand up for Vice-President Bělobrádek, who is not here, and talk about science and research. It's, of course, the interpretation of numbers again. The truth is, if I compare the state budget, science and research 2016 - 29.1 billion. and 2013 - 26,7, so the difference is 2.4 billion. We raise science and research. We've also inherited some centers that some don't make much money. That's what we're dealing with. This is decreasing relatively towards GDP, yes, and European money is also not being drawn. We also inherited that in some condition. Science and research are going up. I can say that Vice-President Bělobrádek fought very vehemently for the promotion of science and research. Of course, we need to introduce some criteria for evaluation of science and research. Our government and Vice-President are engaged in a good budget. [[15.50 hours]] Then the growth. Please, Mr. Laudate, let me remind you of your growth. In 2007, your boss had a 5.5 percent increase. 5.5 percent growth. We don't have that. He owed us 90 billion. The growth rate was 2.7 % in 2008. He's got 108 billion in debt. Growth of 2,3 % in 2010. He's got 165 billion in debt. In 2011 growth was 2 %, debts for 155 billion. So Mr Kalousek is a record player in debting our country - 668 billion. He's got debts, and it's counted to the day! [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] And the Duster -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u31	Prime Minister, please respect...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u32	Okay. Reporting again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u33	Okay. But before that, Mr Pilný, with a point of fact, then Mr Laudát, and then... [[Messenger. Busy prefers min. Babiš.]] I can't do that because I have two logged in. If it were just you, I'd respect that, of course. Because a colleague of the Laudát is registered there, I must give the floor to you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, what I am presenting here is a factual point, so unlike Mr Laudát's previous speaker, I will stick to the facts. I do not know that the Minister of Transport has not exhausted the allocated money. I'm sitting in the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, and the data just isn't there. I do not know that the law that amended the purchase of land would delay the purchase of land. On the contrary, he has accelerated it, even though it is certainly not perfect. Mr Laudát also knows that when a huge construction stops, so that its launch of a project and another in the legislative jungle, which we have here in the Czech Republic, is really a matter of years. Then another fact. Here, Mr Laudát touched on the vote of the members of the YES on the selling time on the holidays. It would be good if he looked into the junk of voting before he said some things that aren't based on facts. Then, as far as the budget for science, research and innovation is concerned, I would just say that it is a question of how effectively this money is being used. We've already talked about this. We now have Law 130 in the House, and I assume that, with the help of the opposition, we will be able to push things into it that will greatly affect the effective use of these funds. I would also like to point out, although it is marginal that this government had the courage for the first time to set up a National Innovation Fund which will work on the principle of venture capital. Only a few million crowns are allocated for its start-up, but it is the first swallow that will actually do something in this area, especially for small companies and start-up companies. So let's stick to the facts, not the cliché that was said here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u35	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný. Now the factual remark of František Laudát and then of Mr Vice Prime Minister and then of Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. To the Minister of Finance. When your economic growth goes down, we'll see how you behave, and then you'll grow a revenue deficit, and it'll just blow. If I remember correctly, literally after weeks, the economy was sinking at this rate, and you don't have that experience. You have a big growth that may not happen again next year. I would like it to be the same or even bigger, but then show whether you will be able to maintain social reconciliation, unlike other countries. We always have to compare. Perhaps we can come to an agreement that we are too small an economy and we do not set rules, that is what strong economies determine. Everyone knows that. And what Mr. Pilný says. I don't know. R&D spending as a percentage of GDP is down, so what are we talking about? As far as innovation centres are concerned, instead of catching this opportunity, that at the moment - and I was not a protagonist of this construction and building up European money at all costs - the fact is that we now have the most modern research infrastructure in Europe and you, instead of actively accessing it, are doing audits that you close and what you do not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u37	That was Mr. František Laudát. Since the Vice Prime Minister has changed his application to priority rights, now Mr Stanjura with a factual remark, then Mr Vice Prime Minister with a priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. We have run away from the subject a bit, but allow me to respond to the speech of the Chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr Pilný, with whom I think our arguments are correct and we are both trying to stick to the facts. I have found the House Press 442, which is called the results of SFDI's 2014 management. And you're saying that as a member of the SFDI fund management committee, you don't know anything about it, and that's not true. So I quote from page 9, where expenditure is: National resources - planned 50,4 billion, reality 40,3 billion, not received 10,1 billion - filling 80 percent. OPD - planned 16,6 billion, released 10 billion, not pumped 5.7 billion. - performance at 65 per cent. Then there are some community programs, that's in tens of millions. Total adjusted budget: expenditure 68,1 billion, 52,2, not received 15.9 billion, total expenditure 76,7 %. Mr President, through the Vice-President, you can't be serious when you say that money was drawn from the way it was, that there was nothing left! House print 442, SFDI material, no opposition material, page 9. It doesn't make me happy. And if we're talking about the causes, I'm sure I'll admit that the fact that Minister Bárta stopped preparing is signed in the years to come. That's different. And we can seriously debate the causes. I, however, have prepared the competitions for 4 billion. for preparation. Unfortunately, my successor in the government of Jiří Rusnok, and supported this government of social democracy, stopped this, so the delay in time could not be shortened and we could shorten it. But it was drawn to 76,7 % in 2014 according to the Parliament's press 442. That's just to discuss how it was pumped or not, but the SFDI budget will be at another meeting. And this year it's going to be exactly the same -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u39	Mr President, you too have run out of time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mr Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u40	Hello. I would respond to the remarks made by Mr Laudát, who said that innovation centres would basically close down and think that they would not. This is an absolutely apolitical matter. In 2006, projects for these regional and centres of excellence of the European level began to be planned. Coincidentally, I've been there with ODS Chairman Fiala since about 2006. Today's problem is that we need to get good people to Brno, and those centers are not set up to close. So I don't think it's good to present this kind of demagogic speech here, because it's definitely not true. When I look at the numbers, in education compared to last year, or in the area where the centers operate, this year over 8 billion are added. That is what I think is also a certain non-negligible figure. So we should stick to the facts more than we should tell any fiction here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u41	I thank Mr Rais. Mr Laudát's point of fact, yet and finally, with priority rights, Mr Vice Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u42	Thank you. A note to the foreman. What he's saying about me here, I didn't say. I said you were thinking, so look what your minister said at some point, but not as intensely as Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. I didn't say - instead of thinking and thinking out loud, which you close and which you don't. Then we saw, in the government's budget, he was 100 miles. increase. When we asked what it was for - an audit if we didn't shut down any of the centers. So there were these - not from Bělobrádek, but from the apparatus, when they justified the increase in budgets or funds for the Office of the Government. I didn't say that. I would have each of the research institutes, when they were standing, caught by their feet, looking for private projects that could go there, and, of course, anyone who's involved in European funds has to know that if we did, we have to return all the money. So please don't put something in my mouth that I didn't say, through the President. I said, you've been thinking, so look what your Vice Prime Minister said. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u43	I thank Mr Laudát. Now with priority rights, Mr. Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. A colleague of Okamura is still standing by. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u44	I thank Mr Laudát for the advice. I don't know where Mr. Laudát learned how to manage, if it was within the IDS company near the Blank Tunnel, or the reconstruction of the Congress Centre or the Municipal Council, so thank you for the advice. Really. I was also in business, and I also know what it is to do business and invest, to employ people. So I think we're trying to act on it. [[16.00 hours]] To the Department of Transportation. Please, I'd just like to remind you of the state we took over. České dráhy overdebted, ČD Cargo controlled by some private companies, ŘSD as a symbol of corruption, a great contract CAPSCH, with which we fight until today. And Mr. Prachař came up with the fact that we finally started buying out the land, as I recall. Maybe it's wrong today, but thanks to him, we started buying out the land, and thanks to him, we started designing again. I would love to repeat the investments for Mr. Stanjura, because he wasn't here... [[Messenger. Stanjura suggests he's informed.]] So you heard, I don't have to say it again. I forgot one more thing. The methodology was changed in 2014. In fact, in 2014, we started to thin out subsidies to SFDI, actually from investments they went into repairs. So actually, the investments for 2014 should be 119.8 billion, i.e. 17.5 billion. more than in 2013. This was the government that inherited the budget and started at the wrong time in February. It is clear that by 2015, we will be increasing the investment record again. Of course, the reporting, as the state shows it, doesn't make much sense, and then, of course, it gives gratitude to actually different interpretations. But the truth is, we invest massively, more and more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Have a good afternoon. The President of Stanjura shall have priority rights. Mr Tomio Okamura will be prepared for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u46	I just want to assure the Treasury Secretary that I've heard it, there's quite a lot of TVs, the numbers. I welcome the debate, I think it's a good idea if we ever go back to it on a budget committee and have an overview of the investments, not just the sum. It doesn't bother me to say it, because, of course, European money plays a role in this. And it also happened to us that we had detained payments, and then they came in additionally. Really these investments were another time and then in the Czech budget another time. [[unintelligible]] That's part of the debate. We have to agree on the numbers, and then we can add the interpretation of the numbers here. There's no problem with that. I also said, when I looked at the sum, that the reporting consists of Czech money and European money. It's on the chart that your ministry prepared. I was talking mostly about Czech resources and there is no massive increase. It's about 44 billion, I don't have the chart with me, if I remember for a year... yes, it's the blue column, and that's where we see exactly the graphs of European money. But we're not sure, even because of the methodology, whether it was actually invested that year or that year we got the European money. That's the difference, by pre-financing many buildings, and it will continue to be that way. So I'm ready for that detailed debate, I don't think it's in plenary, but that it's on the budget committee, maybe the economic committee, so we know what made that European money and when the money came into our budget. That, of course, distorts the reporting and the numbers. I don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I can see that you've had a statement of fact, so I can... I gave you priority rights, so... Okay. Another point of fact is Mr Beznoska, Mr Votava will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I have the exact same chart. I think Stanjura made a very good comment. This needs to be addressed in a detailed discussion within the Committee on Budgets, because, of course, this is how we all keep our truth. Only for those who see the paper, so dark, I only have it in black and white, they're national resources. [[shows]] It is quite obvious that national resources have not changed dramatically since 2011 and that the national resources we devote to investment remain permanent. The problem is that the external economic situation is changing. That's the whole principle of our debate. And I am also prepared to clarify on the Committee on Budgets, to specify the investments as Zbyněk Stanjura spoke to them. The debate here is basically meaningless. But I have to deny, and I'm right, the words of Minister Babiš that there's a massive increase in investment, because it's just not according to the statistics I have in my hand and which, the same table, a little bit nicer, he showed you, I have at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u49	Thank you, too. Now, with the rapporteur's point of fact and after that, Mr Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. Basically, I wanted to say almost the same thing as my colleague Beznoska. I thank my colleague Stanjur for what he said and I take the glove. Yes, we'll put the budget committee on board, so that the Ministry of Finance will, of course, submit the necessary material in the sense that the investments have evolved. Maybe we don't understand each other. It's possible anyway. I don't want to completely accuse you of wanting to misrepresent something, but maybe we really don't understand each other. I admit it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u51	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u52	Thank you for the floor. Unlike the Minister of Finance, I will not point to his past. I think he should take care of himself, he's got enough to worry about, and he's got some past, and I think that unlike him, I could stand up to my past. Even though he's getting files on political competition, even you, I'm not doing it, I've never done it in my life, and I'm not gonna do it. Because it's mean, pathetic and ridiculous. However, well, let us get an investment analysis on the Committee on Budgets, including when their real implementation took place. But with the Minister's approach - it's just a dialogue between two deaf people, I can't help it. When someone here says, like, for example. The chairman of the Committee on Budgets that you are heading towards a balanced budget is just as true as Syria is going towards peace. There's a number of examples to be found. I'm just really sorry that you're not gonna take advantage of this opportunity, and you're doing this irresponsiblely with a huge chance that doesn't have to happen again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u53	Thank you. We will now continue with those who are duly enrolled in the debate. Mr Tomio Okamura has the floor now, Mr Radim Holeček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Czech Republic is presenting a draft budget for 2016. The proposed budget is presented in a situation where the economy of the Czech Republic broke out of the crisis between 2009 and 2014 and reflected from the bottom, which is not due to this current government. That needs to be said now and straight. Under this government of the ČSSD, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement, there have been no economic reform or major economic changes. The Czech economy has responded to the recovery of the world economy and the economy of the European Union. This recovery is temporary, as it is financed by pumping newly printed money into the US and European Union economies. This recovery was supported in the Czech Republic by massive depreciation of the Czech koruna, i.e. citizens' savings. And the government's draft budget makes use of the favourable conditions thus temporarily created and brings a minus budget deficit of 70 billion. Crowns. Although the government has prepared some social measures that mean increasing wages in the public sector and increasing minimum wages, we have to say here, and that is essential what the government does not do. The current form of pension valorisation is ridiculous and rude to pensioners at the same time. The fact that even after two years, the government is unable to submit sustainable pension reform and make pensioners beggars is a well-known fact. And now the government is trying to cover up its total incompetence with a one-time contribution to the pension of several hundred crowns, which, of course, will not rip the poorest pensioner out of a long-term emergency. Not to mention the disabled, which we have in the Czech Republic about a million, who are living today, not only after Kalouskův-Drábkův's crazy reforms. This government does not come up with any long-term sustainable proposals to improve the situation of both the elderly and the disabled. [[16.10 hours]] This government also lacks really functional support for families with children. We haven't seen any concept here in two years. Well, I can only remember the words of Prime Minister Sobotka, who said on Czech television this January that the declining birth rate in the Czech Republic wants to address immigration, which of course we absolutely reject. The proposed budget also does not provide any substantial support for small and medium-sized enterprises. In this context, I would like to remind our bills that VAT should be paid only from the invoices actually paid, and our further proposal to reduce VAT by a percentage. Both of these proposals were rejected by the government coalition. These are real growth measures. Instead, small and medium-sized enterprises are under increasing pressure from the government. The driving engine of the current Czech economy is a false subsidy economy, while the efficiency of small companies decreases. The activities of the current government of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement are characterized by the absence of real pro-growth policy and there is also a completely disproportionate number of employees of the state report. The state under this government does not make its operation more effective, i.e. it does not save where it should be, and it spends where it should not be. A typical example is the billions that the government spends on illegal immigrants, and it has already decided to spend them against the will of the majority of the population and at the expense of better social security for our own needy citizens. Our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - SPD insists on zero tolerance of illegal immigrants to the Czech Republic. Instead, the government should support our own citizens and also support proper border security and overall security of our citizens in the Czech Republic. For example, proof of this outrageous process of government towards its own citizens is that while illegal immigrants are often living in tents in Germany, the government has prepared heated brick buildings with three choices of three meals three times a day, there is satellite television, a gym and even a room for interest rings. Such service, as the government has prepared for illegal immigrants, does not have a large proportion of Czech citizens. To illustrate the style of the work of this government of ČSSD, the movement YES and KDU-ČSL I will set an example of the proposal for higher taxation of gambling, where it is calculated in the budget with higher income by CZK 2 billion. In which the government conceals that the current difference between the state's income from gambling and the state's spending on the remediation of the effects of gambling addiction, such as social benefits, is approximately CZK 7 billion in minus. So even after the tax increase, the state is still in a multibillion-dollar deficit, to which all citizens of the Czech Republic are paying, of course, most of the non-participatings. The only working solution to this problem is a total ban on slot machines and their internet equivalents. I've had this proposal here in the House for a year and the government refuses to discuss it. And that aside from the fact that parasiticalizing someone's morbid addiction is contrary to all moral standards. I have given many different reasons and reservations, which our movement of Freedom and Direct Democracy - SPD has on the Government's draft budget of the Czech Republic for 2016, and I could, of course, continue for a long time. And all of this is a reason for our disagreement with this budget, and our SPD movement cannot support it in this form. I will add that the ODS and TOP 09 positions on the draft budget are ridiculous. These so-called right-wing parties long ago made their programs a promise to naive voters. At the time of joining the government, they would have done the same policy as today's government. After all, we all remember how these two parties promised voters that they would not raise taxes, but as soon as governments took over, they cheated voters and raised taxes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u55	Thank you. Just for the record, we are discussing the state budget and asking the speakers to stick to the subject under discussion. Mr Laudát, after which Mr Holeček is duly enrolled in the debate, is reporting with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u56	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I really feel a little bit like I'm on another planet, because there's always someone who says something absolutely savvy, and I get swayed. So I found the House Press 442, which is already here in the House. This is the annual financial report of the SFDI for 2014. You didn't finish 15 billion 873 million 778 thousand. And if this organization's charter doesn't know what's going on in there, that's exactly the nature of your behavior. But I'm always going to let myself go, I know I somehow thought it was about 15 billion or so, at least 11 or more. And you're gonna tell me completely without moving around that it's not that you don't know about it. I really don't know - it's the 442 House press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u57	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u58	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, I would ask you to stop censoring me, I know you're a representative of the government coalition, and silence me here. I have made it clear that I am talking to the 2016 budget. I started, I say, a little bit, not so deep, but discussing individual passages and arguing about spending and income. And you're suggesting that I'm not speaking to the point. I know you're a representative of the government coalition, but you're also Vice-President of the House, so kindly act in such a way that I, as an opposition politician, can express myself. I have spoken briefly, I have spoken to the matter, I have spoken about ten times less time than other opposition politicians and government, so please behave so that I can speak calmly here and do not censor me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u59	Everyone in this Chamber of Deputies can speak calmly according to the Rules of Procedure. I was merely pointing out that the contributions that are being made here should lead to the present point. I will now ask Mr Holeček, duly signed up for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u60	Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, when I look at my watch, we have a week's bet, I think I should have bet today that I wouldn't have won until after 4:00, but I'm not betting. I won't hold up. I'll go back from migrants to budgeting. When discussing the 2015 budget, I critically commented on the overall planned amount, or planned lower expenditure on research, science and innovation. And I was really looking forward, honestly, that now that our economy is growing, I will be able to sincerely commend myself on the draft budget for 2016 over the support of research, science and innovation and the translator of the budget. Unfortunately, I cannot rejoice because there is nothing to praise. It is true that last year's CZK 34,9 billion, which has been budgeted for this year, is more than 800 million, 35,7 billion, for the next year. But it is also a fact that in 2012 it went to this area 39.1 and in 2013 even CZK 39.8 billion. And the proportion of expenditure on research, science and innovation in these years ranged from 0.97 to 0.98% of GDP. But research, science and innovation expenditure is constantly falling in terms of the share of GDP, except for the currently proposed 0.77% by the government. At any time other than the time of economic growth, and this morning, Prime Minister Sobotka called it strong, or until the end, massive economic growth of 4%, when at other times we should support this area massively and invest in our future? Instead, the government dissolves the potential of economic growth in non-investment spending. Only in salaries and non-investment transfers to private and public bodies is the increase compared to the approved budget for 2015 making an incredible CZK 35,8 billion. By the way, in this context, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to add the non-investment transfers in private entities to Agrofert, which my colleague Kalousek here today called Babiš to himself, in the expenditure section of the draft state budget in the chapter of non-investment transfers in private entities, would make it easier for us to click. Thank you. In addition to the absolute amount of the deficit proposed, which is economically indefensible in terms of the rate of economic growth, I protest against low support, research, science and innovation in the same place last year, and I say for myself that I will not support the food budget this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u61	And I thank you, Mr Member, and I will ask another duly signed up, and that is Mr Karamazov, and Mr Fiedler will prepare himself. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of State is applying with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I guess I'm gonna be a little long right now, 'cause I'm really tired of hearing the lies here. So I'm gonna read you from the so-called chapter, which is the next megaleague of Mr. Kalousek, that's what they're called. non-investment transfers to business entities under the grouping of items 5.2.1. So let's start with the Department of Health. Specialization training of doctors, proposal 20 million. Special Health Care 4 miles. Technological Agency of the Czech Republic, grants to business entities, natural persons, 20 mil. Subsidy to an undertaking, to legal persons 1 billion 580 miles. Operation of state financial assets, transfers to the Ministry of Agriculture, water management section 40 mil. General Treasury Administration, Export Support Fund, Czech Export Bank 1 billion. 270 miles. Export support subsidies, supplementing EGAP 2 billion insurance funds. 200 miles. Comparison of export credit interest differences 250 million. Realization of state guarantees for loans received by ČMZRB 1 billion. 711 miles. Ministry of Culture, expenses for... State support for professional theatres 2 million. Cultural activities, festivals, publishing activities, exhibition activities, cooperation in culture, other cultural events 129 694 000. Programme to rescue and restore monuments 17,960,000. Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, Children and Youth Leisure 2 040 000, R & D support 439 million, subsidies to legal persons 444 million. Education activities, 1075,000. Department of Agriculture, National Support. Support for apiculture 80 million, genetics of animals and fish 225 million, recovery of field crops, national studs, genetic resources, disease fund, advice. Ministry of Transport, transport allowance outstanding SFDI 550 mil. Payment of charges for air traffic services provided in the airspace of the Czech Republic 77 mil. Expenditure on European Union co-financing programmes 22 million. So I don't know if anyone feels what Mr. Kalousek here said. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, transformation cooperation 600,000, public diplomacy 300,000. Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, active employment policy 7 billion. Socially efficient jobs 3 billion. 872 mil. Promotion of employment of disabled citizens 145 million, other promotion of employment 180 million. Targeted employment solutions programmes 575 million. Non-investment non-payment transfers 20 mil. Ministry of the Interior, state contributions to accredited non-state archives 270 000. Support for participation in the EO 3 million programme. Ministry of Environment, Landscape Care Program 15 miles. So I'd really like you to stop lying. It's not a program Mr. Kalousek made up again, Babiš to himself. No, these are those non-investment transfers to business entities that are proposed in the budget of 51 billion. So please study this and don't talk nonsense. It's also spending on renewables 4.7 billion, half of which are solariums. Your tanning salons that you once approved here. So I'd like us to actually call it real names. Study it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u63	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u64	It is just, Mr Vice-President, colleagues, that the opposition is constantly saying that this budget is a browsing budget. That's what I hear from all over the place. I don't know where the food truck is, where it's eaten up, as my colleague Kalousek has said. If you mean we've increased the salaries of people in the public sphere - I think we're giving them back what you took away from them. That we're giving money back to cops, firefighters, people who work in the public domain. And we want the government to work, too, and it works well, so that those people have the motivation and pay for their salary, and for their salary, they also pay off the performance that is expected of them. So if that's what you're thinking, I mean, you're very wrong and you're insulting these people, you're insulting them. I don't think you're gonna like the budget if it's gold-plated. But you are opposition, I understand, of course you must do and do your opposition work. If the budget was surplus, you think it should be even more surplus. I get it, but I think sometimes it's also necessary to think about it a little bit more and not shoot at it, see the investments and other things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u65	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u66	Thank you for the floor, just for the record. I didn't hear the word "eating" coming from our first vice president. He said it differently, first of all. Secondly, I'd be careful with this thinking, and the Minister of Finance, you're here - running out of time and I don't want to delay, I hope we finish our first reading today - they heard what he said about non-investment transfers. So you can read it, notebook B page 64 of the draft budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u67	Thank you and, therefore, Mr Karamazov, who is now duly applied for, and Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u68	Dear colleagues, we are constantly hearing from government officials that the economy of the Czech Republic is growing. But this simple statement is the only thing that can please us. In fact, if we look closer at the budget presented, we will find that the government cannot benefit from economic growth at all. On the contrary, we continue to witness a trend that has become a tradition under today's left-wing governments, namely that state spending is also growing as the economy grows. The government has accepted thousands of new officials, has raised salaries in the state sector at the request of the trade unions, and there is an ongoing non-conceptionary increase in all forms of social support. I'm sure these aren't the famous investments that the Prime Minister is constantly intrigued by. The government has no concept of where and how to invest. The current government can only redistribute from the resort to the resort, more precisely from the less popular resorts to the more popular, most often controlled by the ANO movement. The Minister of Finance is definitely not a superman. Plan a deficit of 70 billion with expected economic growth 2.5 percent. Even an elementary school student could do it. But unlike the Minister, he knows that if he has a weekly allowance of 50 crowns, he can't spend a hundred. And so it will happen that while the Czech Republic will manage high deficits during the boom period, Agrofert will break records, especially in terms of tax relief. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to find at least some positives on the budget presented, and believe me, this is going to work, I am assessing a positive moderate sectoral increase in education expenditure. This is certainly for both teachers and pupils with at least a small band-aid. However, this is not a cure for the fact that our education is desperately lacking in concepts, strategies and visions of its development. I therefore appeal to the Government to begin to look at how to return Czech education to a competitive level again. I am afraid that by introducing inclusive education or various dubious advice for the internal evaluation of universities, we will not achieve. Even a slight increase in education expenditure cannot close the wounds that will arise in the 70-billion-dollar deficit. [[16.30 hours]] In the middle of last year, Finance Minister Andrej Babiš said that we will have a balanced budget in 2017. It is clear that this term will not be fulfilled. The Prime Minister then stated in July this year that the state budget could be balanced in the next parliamentary term. Yes, it could be, but for other than this left-wing government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Karel Fiedler and Mr Vilímec, duly signed up for the debate, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was surprised there weren't any actual notes. Let's really stick to this subject, talk budget, and leave the refugees and the slot machines side by side. There's been a lot of resonation on investment today. I have already made a point of fact. Otherwise, I haven't spoken to you today, so I'm not gonna talk about this topic forever, but I'm gonna focus on another thing that maybe hasn't come out yet, not maybe, but definitely. I already mentioned her on the budget committee last year. It is that, when the composition of the Chamber of Deputies changed and a new government was appointed, many of us expected positive trends to take place, better tax collection, cut spending and curves and trends would just break. Today we know that the expectations were unfortunately empty. During this morning I took a mid-term view of the summers 2017 and 2018, which is part of the submitted materials for this discussion of the state budget, and I added some calculated percentages to the tables. State budget revenues increased by 1.17 % between 2013 and 2012. I counted the percentage of the increase from the numbers that are in the tables. The year 2014 compared to 2013 is plus 3.57 %. It's real. The 2015 budget - we don't have the reality here yet, so let's get out of the projected figures from the draft state budget - is plus 1.79 %. The proposal for 2016 - this is what we are discussing now - is always used to giving a more optimistic number - is plus 5.5 %, but it can also correspond to today's favourable economic growth. The outlook for 2017 is plus 3,26 %. When we look at these numbers, 1.17 - 3.57 - 1.79 - 5.5 - 3.26 - I'm in vain to look for some of the major shifts, some of the radical change that was to come. Let's move on. State budget expenditure. Again, 2013 compared to 2012, expenditure increased at 2.16 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u71	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for interrupting, but I'm going to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, for your peace. As usual, if you have something to say and you need to say it, go to the lobby. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u72	Thank you, too, Mr President. I'll wait for my colleagues to hear your challenge. 2014 compared to 2013 expenditures increased plus 1.62 %. The draft budget for 2015 - watch out, we didn't grow so much here, but our projected expenditures increased by 5.02 percent. Draft budget for 2016 plus 2.36 %. View for 2017 plus 2,19 %. Let me look again at this numerical row 2.16 - 1.62 - 5.02 - 2.36 - 2.19 - again there in vain I am looking for some radical change in reducing the expenditure of the state budget. That's what I've been saying for a long time, our curves are growing. As we grew, we are growing now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u73	I apologize for entering your speech, but allow me to welcome to the gallery the delegation of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment of the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia, led by the Chairman of the Martun Grigoryan Committee. Please welcome the delegation. [[Members rise and welcome the delegation with applause.]] Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u74	Income prediction. We have seen many times how we will be better able to collect taxes, as we can now do better. I remember those pre-election statements, how just the 100 billion that aren't going to be collected suddenly, and it's all gonna work out better. I stress that I am based on the data submitted by the government, the Ministry of Finance, in the materials that we all have at our disposal. It's the House press 617. Tax revenue. The year 2012 compared to 2011 grew by 0.33%. The next year 2013 compared to 2012 plus 1.74%. 2014 when we could first notice a significant improvement in tax collection against 2013 only plus 0.35%. The 2015 budget, when improved tax collection should continue, is a prerequisite only plus 0,096 %. Draft budget for 2016 plus 0.77%. View of 2017, always compared to the previous year, plus 0.41 percent. View of 2018 versus 2017 plus 0,38 %. I don't know. So either we don't believe in it, or the government doesn't believe that tax collection is going to grow better and that it's all going to work, or it's just that the numbers are different. I see here that the highest increase in tax collection compared to the previous year was in 2013. That's certainly the year that this government couldn't control it. Otherwise, the planned tax-gathering growths and other years have been fluctuating around half a percent, which is about a third compared to 2013. That is what we also criticise on this budget. We are critical of the fact that, with current economic growth, this has already been said here, we are putting the proposed deficit of 70 billion. I wanted to point out in my speech that, in vain, we are expecting the savings promised, as they will be significant. So I would have expected to find it in these submitted figures, that I would find a significant change in the tables, that suddenly from 2014, or let's say there must be some sort of run-up to 2015 or 2016, that then the expenditure would not grow the same as it did, with the same rate. In the draft budget that this government has been presenting to us for the second time, I am looking for it in vain. It is also about income, which means tax revenue. That's our main criticism. Basically, when I say it in one sentence, nothing much has changed. We will not put forward our own resolution in order to dubble what has already been said here, but, as far as the budget is being repaid for recasting and proposing with a lower deficit, we will support one of the opposition colleagues' proposals, either one or the other. They're quite similar. I'm sure that's our idea of what a budget should look like. I was still taking notes this morning about what was said here by Prime Minister Sobotka. He said in his speech: This year is the highlight of drawing EU funds. And now, again, I'm sorry, I'm going to go back to the investments that we may have made today, so I don't know if they've made it clear or if they haven't made it clear that the level of investment is significantly determined by how much money there is from European funds. It has also been said here by Prime Minister Sobotka that next year it will no longer be a peak, and therefore more will have to be given from the state budget in the drawing from the European funds. But if we look at the budget presented at the so many tables mentioned, whether it's yellow-blue or gray-black, we don't see it there. [[16.40 hours]] If we are currently at a time when it was also said here today that this economic growth will probably not happen again, or with very little probability, when at other times to proceed to a significant reduction in the state budget deficit than at such a time? One of the previous speakers, I don't know which one it was, said here that it was said that originally the promises of this government or Mr. Vice Prime Minister were made that the budget would be balanced in 2017. It's moving away, moving away, as it shifts to indefinitely improved tax collection. For this reason, we cannot support the proposed deficit. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a point of fact, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't know what budget Mr. Fiedler was talking to right now, but try to change your speech. Really. I'll give you this chart and you'll know that from the start of our government until the end of 2016, tax collection, health insurance and insurance are 175 billion higher. [[He's showing the chart.]] And by the end of 2018, by 302 billion, Mr Fiedler. So I'm gonna photograph it for you and try to exchange it in your speech because it's really out of date.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u77	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Fiedler. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u78	Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I'm sorry, but to me, the materials I'm based on are the ones you're presenting. It is page 27 of the current materials relating to the state budget, medium-term outlook for 2017 2018. Table 7, Table 7.2, this is clearly stated. I've quoted from this data of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u79	Thank you. And now another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Vilímec. Mr. Seďa will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u80	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, a lot has been said here. I looked at the screen record and the preparation of my speech a year ago on this year's draft budget. And I must say that the main topics which were the subject of my criticism last year do not change significantly the draft budget for next year either. I do not want to debate whether the forecast for GDP growth of 2,5 per cent is appropriate. We know that GDP growth is likely to be 4 percent this year. And when we approved this year's budget, the forecast, the prediction, was 2.5 percent. So you can see that the predictions and the reality are changing. Maybe there's some caution in place, so I don't want to criticize here right now. Thus, the government expects GDP growth to fall by about 1.5 percentage points compared to this year. Yes, compared to this year, the government comes with a lower deficit. Not 100 billion, but 70 billion. Still, consider 70 billion. is a very big number. And, you know, the government is still counting on the deficit structural balance of the government sector. From an economic point of view, and we may agree on that, it is evident that, at a time of economic growth, we should strive for a balanced, rather surplus budget, which, of course, does not do. I remember, in 2010, when the draft state budget was being discussed in a very crisis period, and then the political government worked, Minister Janota submitted a draft state budget at the time, and he already spoke and warned that, of course, in a period when the economy was failing, if I was based on some Keynesian theories, yes, it is possible to try to support the economy by some government spending. This, of course, creates a deficit and debt of state or public budgets. But when the economy goes well, the debt needs to be paid, the debt paid. And that's when I remember, but he added, unfortunately, most of the debt is created, and then when a favorable economic time comes, unfortunately, it doesn't pay off. He was right. I don't want to appeal to Minister Janota, but he was absolutely right about this. I have heard comments from the coalition's camp today and in the previous days that this budget is actually pumping the necessary funds into the economy. So we're still based on some theory that deficit budgets will provide us with prosperity in the long run. Unfortunately, that's a fatal mistake. When I think of the state budget hearing last year, Minister Andrej Babiš often mentioned that he was creating budget deficits, but if you remember, he always added: But the government debt does not grow. He even talked about a miracle and his unprecedented management skills. And if you look at 2016, you can see that Minister Andrej Babiš also concluded that no miracle will take place, and the government debt has increased roughly by the planned deficit. It wasn't a miracle, it wasn't. The Minister merely used the reserves of issued bonds under the Budgetary Rules Act. And when this reserve dropped significantly, he started using so-called. short-term Treasury resources. Since this potential seems to have been exhausted, by the way, it also comes with an amendment to the Budgetary Rules Act and asks to sub-class not only all contribution organisations but also health insurance companies and originally wanted scientific research institutions under the Treasury. Of course, it would be another financial injection for the Treasury to pretend that the deficit budget does not actually lead to any new debts. However, within this budget, and this is more sympathetic to me than it was last year, the miraculous story of the government debt reduction does not repeat at a time of major deficits and expects to increase the government debt by roughly the proposed deficit this time. What is the accompanying feature of this draft budget for 2016? Not only, of course, the deficit of 70 billion. It is certainly, and I do not want to debate whether the amount is adequate or not, it is certainly an increase in wage costs and there is also an overall increase in the number of posts in the organisational components of the state as well as in the contribution organisations. It has already been mentioned that against 2015, there is an increase in salary expenditure by 10 billion. CZK and increase in functional positions by 13 329 seats. koneckonců all, the Minister of Finance mentioned it here. The accompanying sign, and I have to open up a little bit, but I don't want to stay long, even the debate on capital expenditure, the accompanying feature of this draft budget is essentially another stagnation of capital expenditure. At least in the least proposed budgets. When the Minister of Finance here, and I have no reason not to believe him, he said that although this year the budget in capital expenditure of 75 billion was approved, but the reality will be 202 billion, I have to ask: What figures do we actually approve here? Do we only approve of the torso of a budget? Because I believe that we approve not only the result of the management, virtually. The balance, but that we also approve revenue and expenditure. And it just isn't normal to increase the amount of 75 billion in capital expenditure. 202 billion. Then we don't have to be here at all. Let the Ministry of Finance and the government do it themselves, and it doesn't have to be assisted by the Chamber of Deputies. [[16.50 hours]] The government coalition also did not hesitate to boast by stabilizing the mandatorial expenditure or the share of the state budget's mandatorial expenditure on the total expenditure of the state budget, which reduces the share by 1.9 percentage points. It's called. Mandatory expenses by law. Then there's the other mandatorial expenses and then the mandatorial expenses that are officially called quasi-mandatorial expenses. And when I calculated all of this, while in 2015, with quasi-mandatory expenses, including mandatorial expenses from the law and the others, they proposed a total of 928 billion, so in 2016, it's 940 billion, so it's about 12 billion. more. What bothers me now about the budget as a member of the Social Policy Committee, even if we discuss it on the committee and certainly at second reading. First of all, the lack of pension valorisation. This is what Prime Minister Sobotka, who mentioned in his regular January deadline of CZK 40 plus a one-time contribution, which we discussed yesterday and which is likely to be approved in some historically available time. I have honestly looked at the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and if it is stated, and this will certainly be my question first addressed to Minister Marksová, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, if it is said that this draft budget takes into account the amount, even the 900 crowns of the one-off contribution, so believe me that I have not found a single contribution in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Not a mention. So it's taken into account in a secret way, it's possible, I'm sure I'll ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm sure that chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will deal with some inadequate social care spending as it did this year, which is repeated on a regular basis, dissatisfied, as we know, with disability. There are a lot of problems in that chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, a chapter that traditionally works with the largest budget expenditure of CZK 544 billion. I cannot be satisfied with the budget or as a municipal politician. You know well that the government, on the one hand, does not want to adjust the budgetary determination of taxes to the municipalities so far, maybe Friday will be announced, but it does not want to, and in the draft budget comes with the so-called. Valorisation of the contribution to the performance of the public administration provided by municipalities, i.e. what the state is actually ordering at the municipality, at a rate of 1 per cent. That's a really smiling valorization. The contribution, the mayors well know, was reduced by 17 % years ago due to the necessity of austerity in the years of economic decline, and then there was some partial adjustment in the Trojan municipalities, where it meant really big problems, but at the earlier level of the state contribution we are still at a respectful distance. And now the government and the Minister of Finance are losing one percentage point with their valorization, in a situation where the economy is growing and when it is fair to give it back to the municipalities. It is true, and the Prime Minister boasted that in the chapter of the General Treasury, the Minister increased expenditure on the programme of support, development and reconstruction of the material technical base of regional education to CZK 831 million, of which 758 million are spent only on schools in the vicinity of large cities affected by residential suburbanization. Here I have to say that he should have done this during last year's budget discussion, as I called him to do. He didn't do it, virtually. Perhaps he did so over the course of the year by some budgetary measure, so that he would accidentally not give the opposition the right to make a proposal. I would really like to know how many of these funds the Minister has eventually allocated to this sub-programme this year. I do not think it is right to approve CZK 100 million, roughly as it was last year, and then increase it to 500, 400 by budgetary measures, I do not know how much this year has been increased. Once again, we don't have to be here at all to discuss the draft state budget. However, I note that primary schools are not only close to large cities but also in the countryside. Even there are elementary schools and municipalities cannot, in principle, use any more significantly in the new planning period the means for the necessary reconstruction of the buildings of these schools. When I saw Mrs Kovářová standing here, I also have to say that there is actually a repeat of the problem of lack of money for conservation care. I received a very nice letter from the mayor of Klatovy, Mr Mgr. The Salvetr, which invites, probably not only me, I think, sent it to all Members, at least elected in the Pilsen Region, to try to increase this area in accordance with the resolution of the Public Administration Committee to around CZK 1 billion. I quote only from this letter two sentences which, I think, are very telling. I quote: The monuments do not ask for a humiliated contribution. The monuments ask for a fair share of their economic contribution to the budget of the Czech Republic. Tourism based on the knowledge of our rich cultural heritage brings tens of billions of crowns a year to the state budget. But that, of course, will be the subject of second reading. Finally, I do not really consider this budget to be an investment, and I think it is pointless to have another debate, because these figures clearly show it. Unfortunately, it does not reflect enough social issues. It remains, above all, an increase in the cost of the salaries of state and government employees, which is probably the pumping of money into the economy with some kind of vision that this will manifest itself more in household consumption. It is not even a budget that would reduce significantly the deficit at the time of de facto economic growth, reduce the structural deficit in some way significantly or more significantly the deficit in the economy. It's a budget without a clear story, and everyone finds a piece of truth in it, a piece of what they want to point out. What bothers me, and it has also been said here that the budget is sometimes based on large, many unrealistic expectations on the income side and is blindly relying on the introduction of new bullying measures for entrepreneurs. The classic question is electronic sales log. Moreover, it is highly doubtful whether it will be approved or not, when and at all it will work, but the Minister of Finance is planning to draw CZK 2 billion on value added tax for the introduction of electronic sales records. And the law isn't even approved yet. For these and other reasons, therefore, I cannot support such a deficit budget, I cannot support a budget which clearly lacks an effort to solve at least some of the issues, or to address current problems, and fully identifies with the proposal, either one or the other proposal, to return the budget to recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I note one point of fact, Mr Vozka. Are you interrupting a factual remark? Okay. In that case, Mr Seďa is duly enrolled in the debate, Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, there have already been many criticisms in the debate, comments on this most important law of the year. However, allow me to make a few comments. First of all, I understand the reservations of my fellow Members and colleagues from the opposition benches regarding the proposed state budget deficit. However, if they really are serious about reducing the deficit, then I call on them to support proposals for those laws designed to reduce the grey economy and which serve to reduce tax evasion and increase tax collection. I remind you that, according to European statistics, the grey economy rate in our country is 18 percent. It is also legitimate when the right supports pension funds, financial institutions, entrepreneurs and self-employed persons. However, this support cannot take place at the expense of the most needed, namely seniors, disabled, sick or families with children, in the way that it happened in the framework of reforms of the former ODS government coalition, TOP 09 and Public Affairs. Let me just remind you that these reform cuts have burdened employees with an average wage of 11,000 a year. With crowns. This is also the figure of the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions. That is why I think it is both legitimate and logical that social democracy promotes a policy that improves the position and standard of living of employees and the most needed. The third point is the reminder that the State increases the contribution to the administration's performance in the state budget next year. It's only 1 per cent, but it's increasing. Here's a request to the Minister, but also to other members of the government. According to the information provided by the Association of Towns and Municipalities, this contribution covers an average of 65 per cent of the carry-over costs, and that is not enough. I therefore recommend an analysis of these costs for the performance of the state administration, both for municipalities, cities and regions as well as the capital of Prague, so that the State will pay this contribution not at present 65 per cent in the coming years, but 100 per cent of these costs. I think it would be fair not only to the authorities, but at the same time to end the ongoing and long-term discussions and disputes about the financing of the state administration. I even think that this would be more appropriate than increasing the incomes of municipalities and cities through constant changes in the budgetary determination of taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, my final point is to finance Czech science, research, development and innovation. And I'm sorry there's been some information going on here, but I believe I won't repeat myself. I can also imagine an increase in these expenses. But to remind you, last year, these expenses reached 85.1 billion in total. CZK, which was an increase of almost 10 per cent, which for the first time reached a level of 2 per cent of gross domestic product, and this expenditure was even higher than the average in the countries of the European Union. It must be stressed, however, that private enterprises have the greatest credit for this, which is certainly good news from the point of view of innovation and competitiveness. However, it is necessary to draw attention to the problems related to applied research and, in particular, the problems relating to the introduction of basic research into practice. I also see provisions in cooperation with scientific centres, universities with the business sector. And since businesses have invested twice as much as universities in recent years and even three times more than publicly research institutions, it is important that science is supported by the state budget even more than it is in the current draft budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u83	And thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So now, with a proper application, Mr Bendl, will be prepared by Mrs Soňa Marková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u84	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, esteemed thin government, allow me to say a few sentences to the budget. [[Minister Brabec, Minister Babiš, is currently sitting on the cabinet bench at the news desks.]] I will try not to repeat what has already been done here in the morning or in the morning, if you will, but rather some confirmation that what the opposition has said here is true. I can't at least partially, although I know that the details will come up in second reading, to devote more than 40 billion budget numbers to the Ministry of Agriculture chapter, where, despite the announced priorities that we are telling and addressing here across the political spectrum and telling them that it is a priority for us to keep water in the countryside, that we are priority of supporting animal production, etc., so on those budget numbers of the Ministry of Agriculture chapter, it is obvious that this is not a priority. Chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture is one of those where, when Milan Urban, through Mr President, said here - ministers, do not go to the Minister of Finance to ask you to say it before the Office of the Government that you have succeeded or failed, but this is a classic example of when the Minister of Agriculture failed, even though the Minister of Finance has received a bonus from the previous years from the Ministry of Agriculture, which regularly draws on the state budget. This year it will be - or next year it will be more than 22 billion. CZK, which the state withdrew from Budvar and from the money that the Forests of the Czech Republic had from previous years. For next year there is nothing in Budvar, this year the state drew half a billion, for next year the state expects to take from the profit of the Forests of the Czech Republic from the past 6.6 billion, this year it was a little over 8 billion, but in total it is more than 22 billion. CZK, which goes to the state budget accounts, but was created in the management of the governments of the past. And yet the Ministry of Agriculture's budget is reduced by about 5 billion. CZK, while, world wonders, investment in particular decreases, non-investment expenditures remain virtually the same, even those transfers to the business areas discussed here today. I don't know if that's what the Treasury Secretary said, the amount over two billion. CZK, which goes as non-investment in the support of the business sector in the resort, and I would find others, just there it is. So non-investment spending remains, investment, of course, is falling, the overall budget is falling. But what bothers me most is that on the priorities of the area as we have talked here, we want to address it - floods and droughts, which we are all concerned about and we see what nature does to us every year - and in the field of water management, the Ministry of Agriculture reduces spending, even in support of investments in forestry, in restoring the forest. Quite significantly, although it is not a lot of money in terms of the state budget, but it shows here where the priorities are and that they are not where we need them, although here, when we are talking about this on the Committee on Agriculture or on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, we all agree on this. Then the numbers come in and they show that the aid to the water sector is reduced by 300 million. Crowns. Mr. Chairman of the Agricultural Committee, a colleague who doesn't listen to me right now, laughed at me here last year... [[to Mr Faltynek, who is turned his back]] My colleague Faltýnek laughed at me here last year when I suggested increasing funds into the flood. And he said, there's no need, no one wants it. [[Mr. Faltynek disagrees.]] You did not support my amendment, which said: let us put more into the irrigation because the irrigation is needed due to the drought. Then you laughed at me, you didn't support my amendment. And now the Minister of Agriculture here comes up with the fact that all of a sudden the funds are needed and we're probably gonna be able to spend them. Well, that's just for the record, we could've done a lot of things about it. But the truth is, it goes less than 300 miles into the water sector. Crowns, which I don't think is right for the future. [[17.10 hours]] He's 200 miles away. the retention of ponds. It's like when we're joking. If it's a priority, then I just can't imagine there's not gonna be a zero more. So if we really want to deal with this, if we're going to deal with the retention of ponds or the retention capacity of non-production ponds in this way, we're going to deal with it for 150 years. We need to find some more financial resources. I quote here, not strongly, but banging on the table and saying that the resort produces a significant amount of money, should have the chance of the Minister of Agriculture, or the Department of Agriculture, from the means it produces, to return to agriculture, from my point of view especially to the production of forests and keeping water in the countryside. Unfortunately, this priority is here, I have to say, it's fading away, and I'm very upset about it. We talked here this morning about how bad it is when new authorities and new organizations are created. The Ministry of Agriculture has established a new contribution organization called MEZ Services Facility. I haven't found any meaning in the foundation of this organization anywhere. I've only found how many tens of millions of crowns it costs, but what it does, who does it and so on, I'm just saying that I'm going to ask about it both at the agricultural committee and at the second reading of this law. At the same time, the material admits, and this is a question for the Minister of Finance, as he sees it missing in the national subsidies needed to meet the needs of the agricultural sector to balance the competitive environment in which the Czech Republic is unfortunately moving, where the surrounding countries are very subsidising the agricultural sector, although we do not like it, so we must help farmers in this respect, and he says that there is one billion missing from national subsidies. And half a billion missing from PGRLF. So I ask the Minister of Finance whether he can answer whether this financial amount is found or whether it's just a hint that farmers simply won't see these finances. Let me make a few more comments on some of the other chapters, perhaps not so much in detail. For the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development - I have been here several times on the topic of unbalanced equipment by the infrastructure of individual cities and municipalities. It was said here by my colleague, Mr Vilímc, that the government is actually using the activities of cities and municipalities in the performance of the state administration, and it is a bit of abusing that this is cheap, because if the state were to do it with its forces, it would be much more expensive. From this point of view, at least I personally understand that the combined model of performance of government and self-government is correct because it is beneficial for the state. But the state should not constantly put further and more demands on the municipalities and cities - by the way, when the government, and it looks very sympathetic, says that it will add to the officials, decides to increase the spreadsheet award, so it does not apply from its own, it applies to cities, municipalities and regions and we do not add anything to it, but it looks terribly sympathetic when the government says: Dear officials in the regions, towns and villages, you will get added. Or in the contribution organizations of these municipalities, but it will pay the cities and municipalities out of their budget. And to do that, we're going to tell them that they're going to get added 1 percent to the government's performance. Great deal! This is simply done by a super bill without an innkeeper, regardless of the fact that we have a law here at any moment that will complicate the life of the communities in the future. The Chamber of Deputies did not accept that, for example, we will forgive the State for paying taxes on agricultural land funds to municipalities and regions, even if they are publicly beneficial constructions, but in this case, "fat man, pay." And the Minister of Finance seems to feel that cities and municipalities must be punished for doing well. Next - State Land Office. You will see what will come out when the amendment to the Act on the State Land Office is approved, and what the municipalities will have to pay for in the future. There's another area that I think is a timed mine, and it will manifest itself in time, you'll remember me. This concerns the non-profit sector. Within the state budget presented, which, for example, may seem sympathetic in the area of social affairs, it seems that everything will be covered and there are some conflicts that Mr Vilímec spoke about, but I have already spoken to some representatives of the nonprofit sector in the area of social affairs, who, at the time when they got to those forms and conditions under which they can ask to continue providing social services, and I point out and point out that in the area of the nonprofit sector it often helps the state to save, because they need to earn money elsewhere, so it pays off, and at the same time the quality of services is very high, so the state is beginning to create such conditions that the nonprofit sector does not touch financial resources. It creates such conditions where the non-profit sector is beginning to impede multi-source financing. I think it is definitely for the debate at second reading, or for the committee in charge of the social field. I would ask that you take this seriously and try to arrange for the Minister of Social Affairs not to engage in this discrimination. Because this will not only be reflected in higher costs, but also in reducing the quality of care for citizens who cannot otherwise help themselves. You say that you are a government that has a social sense, so I ask you not to create conditions for a non-profit sector, which, even after decades, will not be able to provide social care, or will have to consider a rather significant reduction. What we haven't talked about here, and it's a special chapter, even if it doesn't apply directly to the state budget until the money runs out, that's the health area. The government is doing little to make there a motivation to live healthy, little to make those who live healthy better. No matter what we say here, health services have to be free. Those of you who are on the health committee or in some bodies, whether different insurance companies or so, must clearly see that the train needs money one day hits, there will be queues of people like this in a number of countries to the west of us. They're already coming out, it's just not really visible yet. They wait longer and longer for surgery, because they are not, and the result will be that they will begin to beat themselves in line, that they will start looking for a way to get there or onde, doctors will find themselves in a situation where they will push you or them. And I don't want to say what can happen, or maybe it's already happening somewhere. This is not a good situation, and I think that in the field of health and the state budget, it should fall, that we should start creating a system that will start to motivate, not demotivate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u85	Thank you for your contribution to the debate. I'll read two note cards. Today, as of 17.30, the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, apologizes to the Minister of Agriculture, and today, from 6 p.m. for working reasons, Mr. Jiří Zlatuška apologizes. Now the next party to the debate is Mrs Soňa Marková and Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wish you all, colleagues, a good evening and allow me to mention for a very short time a topic that my previous speaker has sent here, oddly enough, from a completely different perspective than he sees, because I will allow myself to react briefly only to his words that he has said here that we want health services for free. We all know that health care was never free, that it was always public health insurance, that is, never free. That's one thing. And the other thing. I think this company has once rejected the antisocial health experiment that the previous right-wing governments have shown us here, so I don't think that's exactly the way we should go in the health field. As I have already sent, it is known that health care was financed primarily from public health insurance. I would focus on just and only on the chapter of health in today's debate on the 2016 budget. Of course, the state budget contributes to the financing of health care, amounting to 63 billion. CZK through payments for state insured persons, from the chapter General Treasury Administration of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u87	I'm sorry, Madame. Please continue your speech. The Minister is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u88	We should probably be glad that at least one minister is present, but as my colleagues have already submitted here at the beginning of the discussion, I think that the negotiation of the state budget is a matter for the whole government, or at least a large part of the government, so I, too, would like more attention to what we are saying here, but it seems to be just a call in the desert, so I would like to continue. Total health insurance income is estimated at more than 258 billion. CZK with the fact that it is expected, of course, that there should be an increase in the collection of insurance premiums of 1.3 to 1.5 billion. Crowns. The Ministry of Health itself, therefore, manages about 7 billion in the entire budget. CZK based on how I read this information from the prepared budget for 2016. This money goes to the state administration - about 2.3 billion. CZK, research and development in health care - about 1.5 billion. CZK, to faculty hospitals, professional medical institutions and institutions of institutional care - about 1.2 billion. CZK, medical rescue and air rescue services, plus emergency situations - about 1.1 billion. CZK, for health programmes under which HIV prevention, AIDS, national health programme, grant support for non-state non-profit organisations are hidden, total only 617 million. CZK, for international cooperation, training facilities, residential places that are important for the preparation of doctors, preparation of crisis situations - only 240 million. Crowns. After negotiations on the 2016 budget in the government, the Minister of Health was said to have left satisfied after an increase of 400 million in what was originally said. Crowns. Originally, however, the Minister demanded an increase of 1.2 billion on his coalition colleague. CZK, especially for the necessary investments, and yet he left satisfied. At the same time, the Ministry of Health's budget expenditure on investments has fallen from 3.1 billion on average in recent years according to official data. CZK between 2004 and 2010 per 1 billion. Annually in 2011-15. The value of the hospital's long-term assets thus decreases steadily and in state hospitals, even significantly faster. After all, according to a recent survey conducted between the directors of 156 hospitals in the Czech Republic, investments in the quality of health care and the quality of hospitals are considered to be the biggest problems of Czech health care, 95 percent of directors think so, and of course the problem with wages. 91 percent of directors see this problem as significant. I'll remind you of one more important thing. The Minister of Health also requested an increase in the state's contributions for the so-called State insured persons, by 4.3 billion. koruna, so that the promised increase in wages and wages could occur at all. In the end, he only got 1.8 billion. According to the Chair of the Department of Health and Social Welfare, in order to reject the union's demand for the necessary increase in health care salaries, the hospital is actually in danger of being vacated, and this does not mean that there will be patients, and the quality of health care provided will be reduced and deteriorated. Already today, many health - care establishments are faced with a lack of doctors and nurses, and even somewhere there is a risk of closing down the department. After all, I consider that the failure to enforce a more pronounced increase in payments for state insured persons and their regular valorisation is a very serious mistake and violation of the electoral promises of the current government coalition, and even, say, in a certain way, the coalition contracts of the current government parties. At the recent meeting of the Committee on Health, not only members of the government coalition have been commended on the activities of the current Ministry of Health in the area of financing, which is understandable, but also opposition right-wing representatives. I think Minister Němeček should think deeply about that by now. I will recall some other issues that need to be addressed acutely in the health sector, and what is also needed, for example, is the funds that are still missing now, even after we see what the state budget looks like. So only of the most important ones would I touch on the fact that there has still been no tightening up of the personnel decree, i.e. the necessary increase in the number of health workers, while the problem of excessive overtime remains and is not addressed by doctors. Similarly, it is with a lack of and subsequent overloading of nurses. It is here that an important limiting factor is the previously inadequate system of postgraduate education of doctors and education and the competence of middle health personnel. The slow progress of the work on these, say, vital changes is due to the lack of funds in the health system. The Association of Czech and Moravian Hospitals in the area of post-care funding also draws attention to a very serious situation. Setting up the financing of follow-up care per bed-day is under real costs, and in addition, regulatory fees have not been compensated. The Association of Regions and the Union of Towns and Municipalities draws attention to the slowly fatal lack of practical physicians for adults, but also for children and adolescents. The average age of these doctors for children and adolescents is 58 years old and half of them are over 60 years old. A similar problem involves dentists. [[17.30 hours]] Insufficient funding is also felt by the area of long-term geriatric home and hospice care. At the same time, the need for this care, with the continued ageing of the population, is constantly increasing. It is not possible to rely only on various projects financed from European money on a permanent basis. There is also a significant lack of funds for prevention, especially for all kinds of screenings. Not only campaigns are enough, but they must be a permanent part of health care. I also lack higher reserves to address potential risks, I mean the health risks associated with the current migration and refugee crisis. It is here that, if the number of asylum seekers increases, higher income will be needed from payments for state insured persons. Therefore, in order to fully fulfil the constitutional claim of all citizens of the Czech Republic to the necessary and quality health care at 21st century level, the funds introduced into the health system, including from the state budget, need to be increased. I am aware that the health situation is not at all easy after the destructive and antisocial policies of past right-wing governments. I mean, thanks to the freeze on state insurance payments, the health system lost 18 billion. CZK, increased VAT from 2012 to 2014 the health system lost 10 billion. koruna and devaluation crowns by 2 billion. Crowns. That is why I consider the funds contained in the budget chapter of the health sector, but also in other chapters that have an impact on the financing of health care, to be insufficient. For this reason, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia parliamentary club cannot support the draft budget for 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u89	Good evening. Thank you, Mrs Marková. Now with the factual remark of Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u90	Good evening. By your means, Mr President, to Mrs Marková and to all other Members: The health budget chapter, of course, has a big problem, as the Member here has described, is more than that of health. We need to realise that we have recently abolished all regulatory charges, and we have not only taken money from that system, but also the possibility of regulating the use of funds. The Minister of Health had a press conference today. He started the press conference with the words "we're saving up for smoking." I'm telling him the truth. In those hospitals, we're saving up by buying cheap and miserable gloves that are permeable, sticking to the hand and containing microholes. We build hemorrhaging in surgery by coagulating, electrocution. The gloves are so crappy, they often break into your hand and smoke from the surgeon's hand. It's true, we're saving up for smoking out of us - unfortunately, we're smoking out of surgeons. I would very much like to consider all these things because it's not about my hands, now I have one burnt hand, it's not so serious, but it's about all the workers that have a problem. And if we transfer the state's health budget to the state alone and we don't try to regulate it directly with patients, right with those health care eaters, the situation will get worse and worse, and the contradiction between what the health needs and what it gets will get bigger and bigger. This is such a serious budget error that it creates one reason for me why such a budget cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u91	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Another with a point of fact, President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u92	I would like to remind you of the words that have been said here at least twice today, from Mr Urban and Mrs Marková. Many pretend that the budget and expenditure are given by the Minister of Finance and not by the government as a whole. That is why our criticism is directed at the Prime Minister because he is responsible for the budget as a whole, for the government as a whole. It's a mistake for the ministers that as they take turns on the clock in Letensky and say I'm satisfied with what the finance minister gives me, I'm not satisfied... But they're at the wrong address. This is to be dealt with at the Office of the Government, at the meeting of the Government as a whole. It doesn't really matter if the Minister of Health is or isn't in front of those cameras. What are those TV stations supposed to do? So they're still at the Treasury Department. Madam Secretary Marksová, I think she came in at 6:00. Maybe someone at 5:00 in the morning. That's no way to negotiate a budget. I'm right about both of them, everyone's from a different political camp, coalition versus opposition, but that's not the fault of us, it's the fault of those ministers that they go to the wrong place to beg. Instead of taking it whole as a whole, they walk and say: I am satisfied with what the Minister of Finance has given me today or has not given me, this is the miraculous 20 billion that have been found. They were found during the visits. I don't know if all the ministers were there or almost everyone. That was so dramatic! The Minister for YES came to see the Minister for Finance from YES. Whoever expected to leave with zero must have been disappointed. Surprisingly, the ministers who were leaving said, "Well, it's not exactly what I wanted, but I have to appreciate Mr. Finance Minister's efforts. So spending went up, spending went up, but the deficit was still 70 billion. So that's why he's in the budget by 63 billion. Revenues more than in 2015. Because the expenses went up, 70 became a mantra, a number that can't be crossed, so it went right up on both sides, and we're smiling about it. The first year was another discipline, it was a tour of the prime minister after the ministries. He complimented everyone. He was slightly mistaken that he had to replace two ministers just after he commended them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u93	Thank you to President Stanjur. Another duly applied for is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u94	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, when Minister Babiš read the draft state budget with a monotonous voice, and when Prime Minister Sobotka defended this proposal with a more colourful speech, two basic figures were in my mind, and that is that the economy is growing by 4.1 percent, the Prime Minister referred to GDP by 2.5 percent. These are very gratifying figures, and the economy would seem to be coming up again. In fact, despite these gratifying forecasts, you are again presenting the state budget with a deficit. Revenue 1,180 billion. CZK, the proposed deficit is 70 billion, i.e. 6 percent of the revenue is the deficit. That money has to be borrowed by the government, which, we see in the motion from the first point of the resolution, makes it a form of issuing government bonds. The revenue of the state budget mainly comes from taxes levied on citizens. Those citizens still think it's their money, that they're more or less involuntary about the state. Of course it's not true. This is what we're talking about with the ownership of $1.18 trillion. This money is now being fully decided by the government, with a substantial contribution from the government coalition, of course. Billion crowns, that's a huge amount, one and twelve zeros. This is out of the question of the vast majority of citizens, and they may think that these are sums from another world. That it's not some real money, it's just numbers written on paper, that the state budget deficit they hear about on TV, from a radio they may read about in the paper, that it's not a debt, and that if they finally know that there's a state debt, that the government debt will never have to be repaid. [[17.40 hours]] That, of course, is not true either. Finally, we see the example of Greece, where government debt may be 177 percent of GDP, such an astronomical amount. Perhaps the example of Řecko could open the eyes of many. But in truth, neither citizen nor state should be indebted, even though it is not so terrible with Greece - they may now be dealing with such a fundamental task as to whether they should not be dealing with some reduction in the highest pensions that they have for them EUR 1,000. That's what they're worried about. Citizen, when he's in debt, it's different with him. If a citizen's debt were to reach 39 percent of the total mass family product, his creditors would certainly have put the executors on the family, on the citizen's right. But that is not what the socialist government seems to think, so it continues to be indebted. I would also like to mention something that is close to the resort, which is close to me thanks to my belonging to the Committee on the Environment. Chapter 315, then. I will comment on more detailed matters in the second reading. But I just want to remind you of two things. I suggested here in the previous state budget discussion that the cost block of nature and landscape protection, the area of landscape care program, from which the municipalities largely realize the maintenance of greenery on their territory, be increased by CZK 50 million, which you did not approve at the time. I must say with commendation that, therefore, in this proposal, the amount of CZK 126 million is now CZK 50 million higher than it was approved last year. Two. I would like to mention the item of non-investment grant to non-profit organisations, mainly within the framework of the main areas of state grant policy towards non-state non-profit organisations. This was CZK 10 million in 2014, CZK 20 million in 2015. I was criticizing the $10 million increase back then. And for 2016, the draft state budget we are discussing is CZK 32 million. So it's growing to the point. Appropriations, as indicated in the comments on this item, should be directed, in particular, to environmental education and education. This is surprising, then, when this area should mostly be in charge of the school, the school system. How should we explain this dramatic increase in support for environmental activists? In the end, isn't this about money for further spread of green environmental ideology? Or, God forbid, isn't it hidden support from that extremely influential lobbyist organization of Reconstruction of the State, which, as we know, is part of Bold Bold's association? And Bold Bold, I've mentioned it here, is quite often subsidized from the state budget. This is a question that should be asked here by all those who have signed up for reconstruction of the state, at the moment when the draft budget, in particular the promotion of non-governmental non-profit organisations, will be voted on here in the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u95	I thank Mr Zahradník. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u96	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to delay it, but a little point based on what Mr. Zahradník here said, which I really appreciate. He's been giving us an example of the citizen and his family budget. I would say that they have to split up probably when they are already doing it - so look at it so that they are responsible, less responsible and irresponsible citizens. And so if I average them and convert the citizen's debt into a head, believe me, it's bigger in terms of the state budget deficit to gross domestic product. So if I take it that an average citizen earns some amount per year, and the average debt of an average citizen is x, so that's a larger number than the debt of a state budget to a gross domestic product, that's the share. But maybe that's just because I think most citizens are responsible, and when we give these family budgets as an example that we should probably act like that, so that we should call the family budgets of those responsible citizens. Because they're not all exactly the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u97	I thank Mr Urban. Another duly registered member is Mr František Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We're getting close to the end. I'm not gonna drag this out. You've heard most of the important thing from my point of view here on the right. However, I would like to point out that, during the discussion of the Government Act on the State Budget for 2015, at second reading, which was on 3 December 2014, I tabled a resolution by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Resolution 77 of the 10th meeting which calls for the Chamber of Deputies to discuss binding indicators - so that the Committee can discuss binding indicators of the development and innovation of all chapters of the state budget in which this item occurs. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, or perhaps the rapporteur, perhaps not the Minister of Finance, but simply someone who would order ministers whose department contains science and research to process this item from these budgets in some way and pass it on to a committee that deals with science, because so far we have only 5 chapters - the Academy of Sciences, the GAČR, TAČR, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. However, the science and research appear, of course, also in other chapters such as the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Health etc. So that we can do the right work on the committee and somehow cope with all these chapters. I'd like it to get there at least before the second reading, so we can deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u99	I thank Mr Vách. The last so far duly registered is Mrs Věra Kovářová. After that, with priority rights, Vice-President Filip. And with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. And Chairman Kalousek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the remarks made in Prime Minister Sobotka's speech. I am glad that the Prime Minister spoke here about the relationship between the state budget and European funds. I am pleased that he has raised this subject. I have some doubts as to whether the form of the Partnership Agreement and individual operational programmes has been sufficiently taken into account in the draft state budget. In a situation where the targeting of European money is changing, and I will set my favorite example of 40,000 cultural monuments which will not be able to be drawn from European money, I think that the draft state budget should respond adequately. Is he responding? How? The government has taken into account that some projects that could still be financed from European money -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u101	I'm sorry, Madam. I don't know if the state budget is responding, but I have to respond to the unrest that is here in this House, and ask honored colleagues to be respectful of the lady and not to be entertained, or to transfer their calls to the galleys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I understand that I am asking questions to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, so it may not matter to colleagues, but it will certainly interest the mayors and mayors of cities and municipalities. So I ask how the government responds to the fact that European money will not be able to finance certain items, such as. cultural monuments. And did the government adapt the draft state budget? I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance for your reply. The second thing I would like to mention, which the Prime Minister also mentioned, is, of course, investment. In the first reading of the draft state budget, I do not want to deal with matters of a partial nature, which are more likely to be part of the next reading, but I can't do it any other way. The Prime Minister said that investment is the priority of the state budget and specifically appointed for the construction of primary and kindergarten schools. It's not a priority, it seems. The Minister of Finance Babiš announced včera after a long time another challenge in the subsidy programme for the construction of primary schools in the vicinity of large cities, which my colleagues and I pushed through two years ago. In the current challenge, however, compared to the previous challenges, only projects with a State contribution of not more than 30 million will be eligible for funding. Crowns. At the same time, the participation of the State budget in the financing of the action amounts to a maximum of 70 per cent of the total costs. The maximum total cost of the subsidised action is therefore 43 million. Crowns. I ask: It is possible to build a full school building for 43 miles. crowns? And is it possible to talk about the priority of this government in the case of the construction of primary schools? At least it doesn't really look like it at the Treasury. I think it's worth saying at least from the Minister of Finance, and I thank him in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Excuse me, with a point of fact, Mr Bendl is first registered, followed by the Minister of Finance. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u104	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say, through Mr President, to Mrs Kovářová, that when she is looking for money to restore monuments, the Minister of Agriculture introduces a new subsidy title for the restoration of the cultural heritage of the countryside. Maybe it'll be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u105	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, with a factual remark, Minister Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am always having fun when Mrs Kovářová gets off here because I have not even been Minister of Finance when we sat here on the budget committee and came to me and said: I need money to build schools. That we'd put it in the agricultural chapter, that 300 million? And why didn't Kalousek give it to you? He says he didn't want to. So, Mrs. Kovářová, please tell the truth. I joined the post on 29 January 2014 and in June 2014 a programme was announced at the Ministry of Finance to expand the capacity of primary schools and kindergartens, which is successful and we have already budgeted about 1.1 billion there. The overhang for next year is 760 miles. Let's try to be really correct. We were also opening a school together, so be so kind, I really think we should speak correctly here. If you said we pushed it together, you and I pushed it because Kalousek didn't give you the money for it, and you know it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u107	Thank you, Minister. On the other hand, Mr Bendl and Mrs Kovářová's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u108	I have to say to support primary and kindergarten schools, and I will take advantage of the fact that the Minister of Finance is here at the moment: Our community has asked the Ministry, respectively. Office for State representation in property matters, an object that is opposite the school or opposite the kindergarten and is empty. The citizen who owned the object died and had no heirs. So the community asked for a free transfer of this property, which is decaying and which could be so beneficial for public purposes. But they've been told, or the mayor has been told that if he wants it for free, he can't ask for any more funding, or he has to buy it at an estimated price, so they can ask somewhere. I'm pointing out it's more than two miles. CZK in the municipality, which has a budget of about 9 million. crowns a year. So I don't think there's much support for primary schools. And it would cost you nothing, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u109	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mrs Kovářová, followed by Mr Stanjura in fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u110	Dear Minister, you are right that Minister Kalousek did not give me anything. He did not give because he could not realize the grant title which he had prepared and which was for publication and could not serve even in the House because the government had fallen. I just took over this idea and put it as a proposal to the Committee on Budgets. And I'll give you one more piece of information. The money for this grant title wasn't meant to be taken away and I didn't even suggest that they were married to farmers, but from the general treasury.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. With another factual remark, Mr Stanjura, followed by Mr Zahradník. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u112	So it's similar to the budget negotiations. If I remember correctly, that money was approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Chamber of Deputies shall vote on the amendment within the framework of the budget for 2015. So it's not true that the Minister of Finance gave Babiš. They were given by the Chamber of Deputies. And I, of course, do not know who voted in favour and against, but it must have been most of the Members present. I always say let's not say I did, I did. The Chamber of Deputies approved the amendment. But notice how our bureaucracy for this grant title invented a beautiful European name. Did you notice that? The grant title for regional suburbanization solutions. Isn't that nice? We needed to build schools in Central Bohemia, I have some doubts as to whether this program is needed in terms of what will happen to those buildings in ten years, but so be it, I feel I voted in favour of the amendment, but our bureaucracy has invented that we are dealing with regional suburbanization. That sounds so nice! I want to thank you, I don't know who invented it, whether on finance or on MMR, but really, if we say we're dealing with the problem of missing primary schools, everyone understands it, but it doesn't sound as noble as regional suburbanization.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u113	Thank you. Excuse me, Minister, with a factual remark, Mr Jan Zahradník, followed by Mr Volný, then by the Minister of Finance. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u114	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I've finished with the example, not entirely, and I meant it a little differently. This debt to the state of 7 or 6 per cent per year from income can be compared to a family that takes 35 thousand. A month, that's 420 thousand. Kroner a year, and that's her gross family product. She doesn't make any money anywhere else. She lives in a panel, she has no garden, she has no place to make more money, so that's her "gross family product," of which 6 percent, that's about 25,000 a year. So if he wants to indulge in more than her income, he borrows the 25,000. Annually, if it were for six years, it would amount to approximately 150 thousand. CZK, which is 39 percent of the annual gross family product. [[18.00 hours]] And here we are with our state debt. That's what the citizen needs to know. This is a comparison between state debt and family debt. While state debt, people see as a political concept, a kind of political game, with billions and trillions that aren't quite right, they're thousands, tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of dollars a year, where the example is more acceptable to them. Everyone has to change their minds. Of course, people borrow, they have favourable conditions, and now mortgages are the cheapest they've ever been, and therefore the debt of individuals is, in total, even per capita higher than that of the state, but everyone has to understand this example. We're not supposed to be in debt, it's not good. We should be able to live without debt, and that should prove both the citizen and the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u115	I thank Mr Zahradník. With a point of fact, Mr Volný, after which Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mrs Kovářová has escaped me, but through you. I was in the negotiations at the time when the government happened, too, and I have to confirm that it really was made up of two sums. One amount, the larger one, was proposed by Mrs Kovářová from SFDI, which means really from an agricultural project, regardless of the fact that when we argued or from an agricultural support fund, but when we argued about why Mr Kalousek did not give her the money, she did not explain it at all because it was prepared and it fell with the government. She said it in many other words, but I wouldn't want to compromise her now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u117	Thank you, Mr Volný. Now, with a factual remark, Minister Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Well, for the last time today, 'cause I can see there's no point. A moment ago, we were criticized for not investing, now we're criticized for investing, we gave it a bad name. I think the 40 or 50 municipalities that got the money to give the kids a place to go to school are probably happy. I don't know what's going on, Mr. Stanjur. We're investing, so I thought you'd compliment us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u119	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip with priority rights now. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I am unusually citing for myself the beginning of my speech the matter concerning the material submitted by the government in macroeconomic frameworks for the years 2016 to 2018. Please listen carefully. I believe you've read this, but it's important for the introduction of my performance. The Czech economy was in a dynamic economic growth phase at the beginning of 2015. However, developments in 2015 are to a large extent exceptional, as they produce a synergy effect of several favourable one-off factors. Firstly, it is a positive supply shock in the form of low oil prices. The average koruna price of Brent oil was one quarter lower in 2015 than in 2014. Another positive factor is fiscal stimulus, whose impact on gross domestic product is estimated at around 0.4 percent. The impact of expansionary fiscal policy is further deepened by drawing on European Union funds from the programming period 2007 to 2013 which can be used by the end of 2015. Since 2016, the above one-off factors should disappear and economic growth should reflect the normal conditions and possibilities of the Czech economy. The growth intensity will be critically dependent - I note critically dependent - on the stability of the Czech economy's external environment and its economic dynamics as well as adequate economic policies that respect the course of the economic cycle. I'm not gonna quote any more, but it's important that we realize this. It is clear, therefore, that the government of the Czech Republic, when boasting about its results, takes advantage of the situation and forgets that the synergy effect is not entirely a matter of its effect. It's true she inherited a mad inheritance. The deformity - I note the deformity - of economic processes in 2006 to 2013 was huge. The way public spending was cut, the way the crisis deepened, especially since 2008, the disastrous outcome of the governments that worked was changed by the fact that extraordinary elections were in 2013 and the government was able to take up. For the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia as the strongest opposition party in 2014, it was understandable that some stabilisation must take place at the beginning of economic reforms. In order to make it clear how big the debt is, how it will be removed, there was a need for some analysis, but also steps that may lead to the fact that I would say clear some of the money lines that lead to the deepening of the debt. But the issue of the 2016 budget is different. It's not even about stabilizing anymore or whether we're going to save more or less and if we're going to lower by 10 billion. The budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and we will put it somewhere else, but it is about how the government will change the government's revenue side of the state budget, because without securing revenue, it is not possible to reduce state debt in a significant way so that, as my colleague Zahradník said here, we do not actually remain on the debt of the state at a level that is critical for the development of state debt, but also the possibilities that the state has in economic development to pay such debt at all in the future. The problem is that in 2015, the government was drowning in the administration of some of the problems that existed here in the state. I can only prove this by the factual remarks that occurred here after Mrs Kovářová's performance. Did you notice the debate that was here? I did it, I did it, I was there. But what's the effect, if we fixed the condition, wasn't what it was about. So the problem is that we do not have any new stimulus that would lead to state revenue. At the same time, it is necessary to do something about the tax system at the time of the 2013 election campaign, when it was quite obvious to everyone. The problem with this state budget is that apart from one minor change, or perhaps for someone significant changes, value added tax, the tax system introduced by Miroslav Kalousek and Mirek Topolánek has not changed. And that is the main problem, that the revenue of the state is not rising and that the Minister of Finance and the Government are therefore presenting a deficit state budget in which it is difficult to find any new stimulus to replace the favourable economic conditions that they are talking about. So the government knows that it will not find itself in a favourable environment in 2016, as it was in 2015. But since the material was written at some point in May, it had a chance to change the tax system, to sign up for what was the subject of the social democracy electoral programme, so to apply for tax progress and to secure higher income for the state. I don't know if I'm going to repeat this indefinitely, but please, you can explain to me the very simple consideration of how a small joint stock company is equal to, or even a family s.r.o., which has a yearly turnover of million to 10 million crowns, with such businesses - now I will choose no multinational corporation, but I will choose ČEZ - such as ČEZ with its turnover. Please, how can you compare taxes on a small private enterprise to that company as a public limited company? It is not possible for them to have the same amount of tax. The tax has to be split, because if we don't introduce a tax progression for those who are much more burdened with the needs of the state, a social need, then we just can't get to any higher income. [[18.10 hours]] And forgive me, I will repeat this once again: If a small joint stock company with a turnover of about 10 million a year burdens roads, police, prosecutors, courts in some way, its burden is equivalent to its economic activity and therefore it is also intended to pay taxes accordingly. The burden of such a large enterprise, which has a turnover in billions of crowns, is a burden on the entire state apparatus, a whole social need much more. So why not demand a higher tax from those legal entities? I'm not talking about tax progression only for individuals. I could talk about the fact that the deformity occurred when we introduced family taxation together, it wasn't calculated when we introduced other sums in the flats, and the 26 billion. CZK annually in 2008 we are on the selection of 2.2 billion. per year. For these economically active people. Yes, it's a blackout of about 24 billion. You could say 24 billion. Not much, but nobody does anything about it. The government has resigned to address positive steps in the revenue of the state budget. That's the reason we can't say there's anything we can do about the state budget. I'm sure there's no way we're gonna cross them off here and we're gonna be so-called. Strangle the economy again, as the right-wing opposition proposes. It's ridiculous! Why did ODS and TOP 09 end so badly? Because they were doing a bad economic policy and people added it up in 2013 in the elections! And you want to continue their policies, their tax policies? Why are you doing this as a government? Why don't you take advantage of the fact that you can start the economy? If you don't want to, please don't say that you have an active economic policy, that you run this country well, and that, in addition to administration, you have progressed in managing the state to pay the debt one day. You didn't cause the debt. At least those who sit here for the first time for some movements. But the governments have caused it since 1993, so if I marry the Czech Republic, I will not remember the Federation. And if we want to remove it, we must learn from this period and from the debts and the wrong steps of right-wing governments, after all, by rejecting their policies and returning to the economic steps that introduce the positive impulses that lead to the state budget being not only balanced, but also profitable and able to pay for the mistakes made by those who preceded you. Please don't be mad at us, but in this respect, because you didn't take over the annual break that we left you as a leftist opposition, and you haven't submitted any tax laws, we can't tolerate this state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u121	I thank Vice-President Filip. Now with a point of fact, Minister Andrej Babiš, after whom Mr Pavel Plzák. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, I can't agree with that at all. My colleague Filip forgot about the situation when we started. What wasn't everything. There was no Civil Service Act, we didn't draw any money from Europe at all. And we made it clear that we wanted to collect taxes first and then look at the tax system. We're introducing things here that should have been introduced a long time ago! Fight against the gray economy, electronic sales records, inspection reports, kobra, proof of the origin of the property. For the first time, the gambling bill in 25 years! So you say, yes, you are right, the extraordinary growth is 2015, yes, but for 2016 we expect record tax revenue. Why? Because it's gonna be a control report, because it's gonna be the mechanisms that we put forward. Well, I don't know how we were gonna make tax reform. That's three or four years, as you well know. So I don't think it's correct, and I think we have it well planned. That this year, yes, is an extraordinary growth, next year will probably be a normal growth again. But the mechanisms we're implementing are about to begin. Control reports, that's the most important thing. Proof of origin of property, electronic records of sales, reverse charge, Kobra, actually cancellation of tax havens Prague! And all these precautions. So once again, in 2014, 2015, 2016 revenue into public budgets, taxes, levies is 176 billion. And by the end of 2018, it's 300 billion. So please be objective and try to see what this government has to do, all the rest that we inherited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u123	Thank you, Minister. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Plzák, then Vice-President Filip. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I've been reprimanded by my colleagues that I'm stalling with a point of fact, so I'll be very brief. I can't not respond to my colleague Filip. Well, why don't we take the positive steps? Why don't we burden companies with bigger taxes? Because I'm very worried that they're gonna start moving to those places where the taxes are paid smaller, tax havens. And in the end, we're going to collect even less in taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u125	Thank you, Mr. Plzák. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just being serious. After all, I said we waited, we honestly waited all year 2014, we honestly waited the whole first half of 2015. And with regard to laws such as property confessions, such as proposals relating to further steps, we were, of course, patient. But don't be mad at me, except for what's being administered, there's got to be a new system. And when you introduce a new tax system, you would, of course, implement that system and you would have a much higher income. That's what I'm saying. Yes, we've been patient, but we've just run out of patience, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u127	So far, those were all factual points. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. After him, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u128	I signed up to read the motion for a resolution and pass it on to the rapporteur, so that we can vote on it. However, he won't let me react to what's been going on here in the last ten or fifteen minutes, or what we're hearing here. I looked at my watch twice, and I found out that it's not really 18.50 when Nightie's on TV and we're listening to fairy tales. Yet we have heard a story about how rich our country was in 1989 and since then everything has gone in the wrong direction. We just didn't hear about the fact that we were rich, that we were single. That was like missing it. Vice-President Filip said he would like to explain why there are no progressive taxes and higher taxes for companies, for citizens. I say I give up. Explaining the tax system to the communists so that they understand - they understand it very well, but they have the class enemy, and one of the fighting tools is the tax policy. So I'm sure it wasn't an honest request for explanations. Because if he wanted to, I'm sure he'd understand what the problem is. And now what I originally signed up for. I announced in my speech that our club would propose a resolution. I would read it and then hand it over in writing to the rapporteur. Motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on paragraph No 1 Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2016. "The Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 102 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure Act of the Chamber of Deputies recommends that the government reduce the total expenditure of the State for 2016 by 30 billion. CZK 1,220 856 787 167." That's exactly how we budget. The government proposal is 30 billion. higher and up to 167 crowns. The deadline for submitting a new proposal shall be 20 days from the date of receipt of the resolution to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u129	Thank you. I ask you to hand it over to the rapporteur. With a point of fact, Mr Vojtěch Filip, now Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, followed by Mr Dolejš. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u130	Thank you, Mr President. I will just tell your colleague Stanjur that normal progressive rates are in countries like Japan. If you don't know it, go there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u131	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Dolejš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u132	I, in the context of calls for the best possible relations, whether we are in opposition or coalition, rather I want to thank my colleague Stanjur. He's actually happy for us. After all, how many countries in the European Union and elsewhere in the world have progressive rates? If he thinks the Bolsheviks are in charge, then we have a good perspective. But as far as I know, the same tax proposed by the ODS, which is equal to, in that sense, technical, not equal, they have, I suspect, in Russia, or very close to it. And the main argument for introducing this equal tax was that they simply couldn't have collected those taxes from the oligarchs. So that's where we're going. Whether to the oligarchs or to the developed world, to the advanced Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u133	There. That was the last point of fact so far. Now with priority rights, the President of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I volunteered for another reason, but I can't not respond to some of the last sentences that were said here. I, please nicely, protest against the often repeated delusion that we have a flat income tax on individuals here. We don't. We have a progressive income tax on individuals, as a relatively high tax discount of more than CZK 24,000 per taxpayer is, of course, making the curve progressive. And we even have a number of progressions in the case of families with children, because discounts on dependent wives and discounts on children in the case of families with children make the curve even more progressive. We can have a legitimate discussion about whether this progressive curve is supposed to be bigger, which I don't think, or smaller, which I wish, but we can't argue that we have a flat tax. We don't! We have a progressive personal income tax. That's just an objective fact and I'm able to demonstrate it to anyone graphically and numerically. Stop this straight-tax delusion. There isn't any! That's the first point. The second point is my request to the rapporteur whether he will accept the resolution that I made here around 11 o'clock, because the President, who then took turns, said that there was no debate. So, just to be safe, I came here to make the resolution that I read here and submit to the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u135	I'm sorry, Mr President, I can answer that. I have your resolution on record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u136	I am looking for support from both the rapporteur and the President with my eyes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u137	You've got support for both of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u138	Thank you, so I just wanted to make sure that the resolution was properly delivered. And then let me make a little comment. Of course, the greatest and most terrible tragedy of this point is the quality of the material itself, I don't mean technical, it is processed professionally, but how bad and how browsing and how redistributive it is. And just a little less alarming is the fact that the discussion revealed with absolute certainty that the petitioner, the Minister of Finance, really has no idea what he has in the tables. He was still proud of it two years ago, and he said, "I'm not going to read the budget." He's not proud of it now, but the quality is exactly the same. He just doesn't know what he's got. This is then a difficult discussion when the petitioner does not know what is in the content of the material he presents when he confuses investment with transfers of the population that he has commonly confused here in the discussion when he confuses the basic concepts of budget rules according to which the budget is drawn up, so it is really very embarrassing and defensive for the government. Watches, boots, Hus, Husák - vsjo equals. It's just, it's really hard to talk about. After all, I believe, Minister, through Mr President, that you should protect the remnants of your dignity and pay the ten million you owe me because that is what is done in a decent society within three days of losing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u139	Thank you to President Kalousek. Mr Miroslav Opálka, now with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to supplement my colleague Kalousek. He said "A," and he didn't say "B." If we unite on the fact that the tax burden is also quasi-tax, i.e. social and health insurance, then I have to agree that thanks to tax discounts, there is a certain progression, which ends somewhere near the 142,000 border, and then we go down degressively. So the progression to a certain amount and then the richest have, of course, the lower, lower, lower and lower taxes due to the ceilings on taxes and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u141	That was the last one entered into the debate so far. If no one else applies - this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I am asking the Minister's final words, or the rapporteur's. Minister, please, are you interested in the final word? The Minister is not interested in the final word. I will therefore call our colleagues from the lobby and ask the rapporteur. We will vote on the procedural and other proposals tabled. I'm registering two suggestions. First of all, it is a proposal from the TOP 09 and the Mayors, and then there is a proposal for a return to the recast of the ODS, respectively. His President, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Yes, we've reached our conclusion at the marathon. As you have rightly pointed out, we therefore have two amendments, so it is not the TOP 09 amendments, we cannot take them like this, but the amendment tabled by Mr Kalousek and Mr Stanjura, although it is behind the ODS, as I understand it. First, then, we would vote on these motions for resolutions. I will just recall § 102 para. 3 which says: The House will approve the basic data of the draft law on the state budget or recommend amendments to the Government and set a deadline for the submission of a new proposal. The time limit for the submission of a new proposal may not be less than 20 days and longer than 30 days from the date of receipt of the House's resolution to the Prime Minister. I asked my colleague Stanjura if he did not mind that we would vote first on the motion for a resolution from Mr Kalousek, he said no, so first we would vote on the motion for a resolution, which was tabled by Mr Kalousek, which reads: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic returns the draft Act on the State Budget for 2016 to the Government for recasting. Recommends the following changes to the government: 1. expenditure and deficit reduced by at least CZK 20 billion, 2. to find savings in particular in operating expenditure of the State and in non-investment subsidies to business entities. Time limit for the submission of a new proposal: 20 days after delivery of the House's resolution to the Prime Minister. So this proposal is voteable, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u143	We will therefore first vote on Mr Kalousek's proposal. There's a request for a check-out, I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on Mr Kalousek's proposal, as the rapporteur has put it. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 129 vote, 155 Members and Members, for 34, against 87. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur. [[18.30 hours]] [[Unclear from the right.]] Wait a minute. Mr Okamur's card is not working. [[Ambassador Okamura speaks off the microphone.]] Well, the fact that you have a spare wouldn't matter, the fact that it doesn't work is worse. Please, if you wish to object to the vote, we will vote again or just... [[Member Okamura off the microphone.]] Mr. Ambassador, you need to know what you want. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] Please tell us what you want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u144	I know what I want. But I have a spare card, and somehow it didn't work. So I was in favour of the resolution. It hasn't happened to me yet, so I don't know what to say right now, but I was in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u145	We can see that you do not know what to say, but now we would like to know whether you are questioning the vote or not, and you are stating this only for the screen recording.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u146	I think I'd question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u147	There. We will therefore vote on Mr Okamura's objection. I am opening the vote on Mr Okamura's objection. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 130 vote, 158 Members registered, for 143, against 3. The motion was accepted. This is where the technical problems are solved. [[Mr Okamura is getting a new card.]] Please, Mr Okamura, if he would try using a different card, if this is going to work. It's working now. Excellent. We will therefore vote again on the resolution as read by the rapporteur and proposed by President Kalousek. Does everyone know what they're voting on, please? If so, I am opening the vote on the resolution as proposed by Mr Miroslav Kalousek. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 131, 160 Members are registered, for 35, against 90. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur. Excuse me, Mr. Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u148	I'm sorry. For screen recording only. I had the same problem. So I couldn't vote in the vote on the objection. I would vote in favour of the objection. I'm not questioning the vote, just for the tape screen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u149	But now we've got it, we get it. Thank you. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u150	The second motion for a resolution is the proposal by Mr Stanjura. I will read it: Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 102 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure Act of the Chamber of Deputies recommends that the government reduce the total expenditure of the State for 2016 by 30 billion. koruna, i.e. 1 220 856 787 167 kroner. The deadline for submitting a new proposal shall be 20 days from the date of delivery of the resolution to the Prime Minister. I hope I read the amount right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u151	I hope so, too. And I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution as tabled by President Stanjura. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 132, 160 Members are registered, for 36, against 90. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u152	So we have dealt with the motions for a resolution and we should now vote on the motion for a resolution as presented by the Committee on Budgets. I do not know whether you will read it, Mr President, or whether I should read it all again as I introduced the House in the introduction to the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-21-ps2013-033-06-008-001.u153	It's being submitted. I think you presented your opening statement. We will therefore vote on the motion for a resolution of the Committee on Budgets, as the rapporteur said in his introductory speech. Does everyone know what they're voting on? That's right. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution of the Committee on Budgets, as the rapporteur has said. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 133, 160 Members are registered, for 96, against 64. The motion was accepted. I'm done reading the draft state budget. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. [[Applause especially from the central part of the hall.]] The next item is:
