ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 585/2004 Sb., on defence obligations and its provision (defense law), as amended, and other related laws /house print 455/ - first reading I will ask the Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý and the rapporteur for the first reading of Václav Klučka to take their seats at the rapporteur's table, and at the same time I will ask the Minister to make a proposal on behalf of the Government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me justify the government's proposals for legislation by which the government fulfils its programming declaration, in which it has committed itself to completing the necessary amendments to the legislation. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The main proposal is the Government's proposal for an amendment to the law and related laws. The government thus responds to the constant and unfortunately not favourable development of the security situation in Europe and also to the not entirely satisfactory state of the backup of the armed forces of the Czech Republic, which has remained untrained as a result of legislative inaction since 2004 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. If the group on the left is discussing another subject, then have them go to the front door and let the Minister of Defence present the proposal. I'll wait... Thank you, continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u4	So not entirely satisfactory condition of the backup of the armed forces of the Czech Republic, which as a result of legislative inactivity since 2004 remains an untrained and still numerously shrinking corps. The preparation of the Army of the Czech Republic, particularly in the past, has also negatively affected the reduced budget framework of the Ministry of Defence. Proposals for laws forming a set of defence legislation have been prepared for several years with considerable effort by both factual and legislative teams. However, these efforts have not yet led to the expected normative outcome. Branny legislation has a strong social and political context and importance. As the newly appointed Minister of Defence, of course, I was obliged to get to know its contents in detail, as it was prepared, and to assess its correctness. That is also why, taking into account the change in the international security situation, I have withdrawn the original proposal. Responsiblely modified proposals then went through a new commentary procedure and a double discussion in the Government's Legislative Council. It has identified as the main areas of adjustment which need to be paid attention in terms of ensuring their constitutionality: (a) the obligation to lay down conditions for supplementing the armed forces exclusively by law, to maintain gender equality, and to rule out the selection principle for drainage and calling troops on reserve for training in military exercises. On the basis of these suggestions, the Ministry of Defence amended the draft laws and in this amended version they were also approved by the Government and submitted for further legislative consultation in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. With the main principles contained in the set of bills, I would like to introduce you briefly now. The dominant element of the proposed modifications is the solution to the position of a soldier in active reserve, which approaches the position of a professional soldier with the maximum use of his previous training and acquired experience and knowledge. Many provisions in the law are inspired by the experience of creating an advance abroad. This concerns, for example, the creation of a special category of compulsory advance for which the so-called operational backup system has been used according to the French model. In France, this advance consists both of volunteers who sign a contract for one to five years of service and former professional soldiers who must be available for another five years after the termination of the service. The special category of compulsory advance will be an important element of the replenishment of the armed forces due to the readiness of former professional soldiers included therein. In order to strengthen the role of active backup, it is now proposed the possibility of soldiers in active reserve to participate also in foreign missions. Furthermore, a system of motivation for soldiers in active reserve and financial compensation for their employers is established. The proposal also takes into account the requirements of existing soldiers included in the active backup and intensifys their training. The proposed adjustment also includes an institute of voluntary military exercise. Voluntary military training is designed for all citizens capable of military service who want to participate in defense of the state, but have no interest in entering an active backup of the armed forces. An important adjustment is to determine the possibility of supplementing the armed forces with soldiers in reserve and preparing them before declaring a state of threat or even a state of war. This measure partially eliminates the deficiency created in 2002 at the start of the professionalisation of the armed forces and was amplified in 2004 by the adoption of the defence law. As a result, there has been a reduction in the absolute number of reserve soldiers, an increase in their average age and a substantial reduction in the readiness of reserve soldiers. There is therefore currently a lack of a preparatory period that would allow the Czech Republic to increase its defence capacity before the outbreak of the conflict, including the addition and preparation of armed forces by persons and military material. When approving the proposal, the government also had to deal with whether it would use the principle of voluntary or compulsory acceptance of the obligation of citizens. Rather, historical traditions confirm the use of the principle of replenishment of the armed forces on the basis of the conscription. Finally, the government leaned towards the implementation of the drainage procedure for 18-year-olds and partly replaced the absence of a preparatory period with this measure. The proposed bills are specific not only in the subject matter of regulation, but also in the light of the country's historical experiences, which lead us more than anyone else to our own efforts to ensure peace and security. Without rigorous preparation to defend the state at a time of peace, democratic principles of this state may be threatened. The current security situation proves to us today and daily that maintaining stability in the world can only be achieved if we are able and willing to defend peace and if we are also prepared to make it clear clearly and clearly. As I have already mentioned, a set of bills has been developed in the context of changes in the development of the international situation and taking into account the real capabilities of the Czech Army, including its obligations arising from international obligations. The aim of the proposed adjustment is, at the same time, to complement the advance and increase the participation of citizens in the defence of the state, increase the numbers of deployable persons to perform tasks of varying degrees of difficulty, ranging from combat to assistance activities, reducing personal costs, using an advance, which is much more economical in terms of its preparation than maintaining the same ability by the forces of continuously serving and paid professional personnel. The result should be a stronger link between civil society and the armed forces, the involvement of volunteers with a civilian career in the activities of the military, thereby increasing the identification of people with a military environment. In the search for the most appropriate solution, the Ministry of Defence has inspired legislation to ensure the security and defence of the state in the states of the European Union and NATO. In view of the diversity of these adjustments, we have focused on the compulsory or voluntary participation of citizens in the preparation for the defence of the state and the institutes of the creation of a backup of the armed forces. Our analysis showed that a fully professional army is being used in most European countries. But it is always supplemented by a certain amount of backup, most often up to one third of its number. A fully professional model is complemented by the possibility of voluntary basic active service in some countries, such as Germany or Slovakia. For example, in Denmark, Sweden and Austria there are volunteer militias of the kind. In several countries, a compulsory military service is carried out, but with the exception of a military service in Switzerland, it is practically 100% voluntary, since only a small part of the goalkeepers are required to perform the service, with their express consent. For example, Finland, whose model is closest to Israel, is an exception to voluntary involvement. In Norway, the conscription is also valid for women. Backup is generally given high importance also in so-called large armies, that is, American, British or French. The essential aspect of the proposed adjustment is the strengthening of the military's ability to defend the territory of the Czech Republic and its development into war numbers. We are thus responding to the fact that the conflicts of war have drawn closer to the very borders of NATO member states. [[11.20 hours]] I am aware that congressional legislation at all times gives rise to extraordinary public and media interest, as well as the attention of legislators, and raises a whole society-wide, often polemical, or turbulent debate. This was the case, and it will probably be in this case as well. In this context, I see as an extremely positive active cooperation between the Defence Committee and the Ministry of Defence in assessing the proposed changes, whether in formal or less formal meetings, for example at the exit meeting of the Defence Committee. The committee's interest in this issue, despite the reservations raised, fills me with the belief that the proposal is important, important and that, as such, it has a good chance of being referred to second reading. I believe that at second reading we will then find adequate room for discussion and careful consideration of possible individual proposals and their possible additions on the basis of mutual discussion. On the basis of a proposal from the Defence Committee and in cooperation with it, a public opinion survey was also carried out. I say this at the very end of my speech just to add information. The public opinion poll confirmed the majority interest of the citizens of this country in their participation in defending their country. In fact, citizens need to be aware, and as it turns out, they are already aware that it is not enough only to have a professional army, but their personal active participation in defending the state is needed. In connection with this, The Ministry of Defence has, of course, prepared to continue to cooperate on the amendments to the bills submitted so as to create effective and necessary legislation for this State. When discussing the sets of defence legislation, please note that, in particular, the draft amendment to the law is currently a fundamental standard, which is the key to the use of all other laws of defence legislation and, at the same time, the source of the institutes used in these laws. I therefore consider it extremely important that this proposal should be passed on to further reading after your discussion and that, after its adoption, it has enabled the implementation of new conditions for the completion of the armed forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u5	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Václav Klučka and present his report to us. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government. I have expanded my introduction a little today, because the thing I will be presenting here as rapporteur is an extremely important and extremely serious matter. It's a matter of defending this state, it's a matter of defending this country we live in. It's a basic standard called the Defense Act. I have never spoken more seriously in the past when I performed in this House. I've always been prepared for things that relate to the subject that I've represented, but I've never had such a serious subject before. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to emphasise that the conscription of the citizens of the Czech Republic after the creation of a professional army has never disappeared from our legal order continues. It continues to be envisaged and applies to all citizens between the ages of 18 and 60, including women, especially for gender reasons. The law applies the principle of equal opportunities for men and women. I'm very sorry, but this is a serious subject. I ask my colleagues to really pay attention to this. According to the current legislation, it is only possible to supplement the army when the government announces the so-called. state of emergency. However, the first recruited citizens would not be available until about 72 days later and would have to be trained, which is too long in case of a real threat. Therefore, the amendment of the defence law put forward by this government to Parliament contains the possibility to initiate the procedure under the Government's order before the state of the threat. Ladies and gentlemen, let's try to look at this from a different perspective: what is a conscription duty? It is the duty of a citizen to perform the tasks of the armed forces of the Czech Republic. It includes the obligation of a citizen to comply with the draft proceedings and to fulfil other obligations laid down by law. The defence obligation arises from the citizen on the day following that on which he reaches the age of 18 and ceases to exist on the date of his age of 60 or earlier for the reasons set out in the law of the defence. Please quote and define the conscription from the current 2004 Act. In this House, 140 Members voted in favour of this law in 2004 - 140 Members who put their trust in the version that the contributions would not be due until the state was attacked at war. Excuse me for saying nonsense. We're not gonna make it. After moments of long patience, after eleven years, this government has come up with a proposal that it is necessary to do something out of the responsibility of the defence obligation to the state. I am not saying that this proposal is not yet debatable, but I will come back to this at the end when I will recommend that we put this on the table for the second reading and carry out the discussion. I'm not saying that we can find solutions that aren't so strictly regular, they're not going to say that you're going to the account at the age of 18. We may come to a compromise that this will be a voluntary gate obligation, not only from the men's level, but also from women's level. Perhaps it will be a compromise that will tell us what quantity of people we are able to meet and whether this quantity corresponds to the idea of the war condition of our army. War condition, that's different from working in peace when we have 17,000 professional soldiers, and we're gonna give them a little promotion. But that is not the basis enough for us to be able to accomplish the tasks at the time of the war attack. Ladies and gentlemen, this company has been called after 11 years. Deafness in the field of conscription is spread out. Allow me to quote to you the opinion of a former professional soldier: I will never protect and defend the interests of the Czech Republic in this violent, militant way. While the amendment of the law hides very carefully into the mantle of volunteering and even defense, the crowd is prepared by the elites of this world for a definite yes. After all, it is our duty to protect the interests of our republic. Not my duty. Another test of surrender of the consciousness of the Czech nation is here. After all, he who does not protect the interests of the Czech Republic and his family in this way is not Čech and is not patriotic. [[11.30 hours]] Yes, I speak for myself from this crowd and mass manipulation and say no! Not in this way! And if this is the measure of obtaining a patriot's badge, I voluntarily and knowingly renounce it. I will never protect my family's interests in a violent way, even if it is purely so-called. defending the cleverly hidden and confused thoughts of combat action. How far must we go to understand that our actions are destructive and not creative? I'm ashamed to be Čech. I am ashamed of my irresponsibleness, which I have expressed in the election of these legislators. After all, I was the one who made them there today. How could I be so foolish and naive? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the opinion of a former soldier, a citizen of the Czech Republic. I think that this is a sufficient challenge for us to finally do something that will be real, creative and responsible for the Czech state. I beg you to release the law, the defence law, into second reading for expert discussions in the various committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u7	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate in which I have five applications so far. The first entry is Ms Jana Černochová. There is one point in fact before it. But the factual point responds to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u8	More like a technical note. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, given the very close thematic relation to points 33, 34, 35, if we could not merge the debate on these points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u9	[[Hesitantly.]] Well, I think I'm gonna - I'm gonna have to take a vote on a proposal like that, if my colleague is serious. Or if he's taking it back? I understand your feelings are all sorts of things. I have to take it the way it was said. Do you take that as a procedural proposal, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] Okay. So a proposal for a merged debate. [[Mrs Cernoch is trying to speak on the microphone.]] We will decide that without debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u10	Mr Vice-President, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u11	There you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u12	It's impossible because there's a different newsletter in every press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u13	This does not prevent a merged debate, because we also have more rapporteurs for one press. But okay. We will decide in the vote number 236, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour of merging the debate with the press. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 236. Of the present 160 for 7, versus 55. The motion was not accepted. We'll proceed in a proper manner. First Mrs Jana Černochová, then. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, after Mr. Klučka's performance, maybe I would just add that the scarier story he's read to us here, and I think most of us know what name it is, is that this man, besides being a former professional soldier, is still a soldier in active reserve. But that's the point that we're going to get to as the next point after we talk about the law. To the law of the gate. More key standards are coming to our table today from the so-called package. defence legislation. We've already passed two hundred and twenty-ones a long time ago, the Occupational Soldiers Act, we've approved a change in the boundaries of military retreats. Before that, we passed a new law on the Military Police. Within a few years, this has resulted in a fundamental change in legislation, which began to prepare for the Minister of Defense of Alexandr Vondra and follows the principles set out in the White Paper on Defence. By the way, Minister, she would have deserved a successor because four years have passed since her approval, and as you and colleague Klučka have been talking about it, the security situation has changed significantly since then. In the coming months, we will be discussing a key amendment to the Act of Defense, a new Act on Reserve Soldiers and the Armed Forces Act. By a preliminary agreement between the Minister and the members of the Defence Committee, we have asked that the deadline which allows us to discuss these standards in a thorough manner should be extended to 90 days, so just so that the Minister does not forget this promise which he or the rapporteur has given us, and in the course of the procedure, he or the rapporteur will read the 90-day deadline, because there must always be the Minister's opinion. In all these standards, these are adjustments that significantly affect the defence of the Czech Republic, and we should pay all attention to them. The preparation of the amendment to the Act began in 2011 with the conviction that the security situation, especially after the Russian invasion of Georgia in 2008, is deteriorating and our country, which entered the North Atlantic Alliance in 1999, and has had a professional army since 2005, is securely anchored, but has not adequately set up a system of defence of its own territory. Since the preparation of this defence legislation, there have been many significant changes in personnel positions. This proposal is presented de facto by the Third Minister of Defence and the Third Chief of Staff. It may not surprise you if I say that I am disappointed that before the law went into government, he was not consulted with us, the members of the Defence Committee, and there was no need for consensus across the political spectrum. Unfortunately, the original version of 2013 has made significant changes. I am sorry that, to this day, in the first reading of the amendment to the law, we Members do not know the intention of change in connection with the drafts that the Ministry of Defence wanted at first, then did not want again. On the Defence Committee, two weeks ago, we were promised that the Ministry would come paragrafo the wording of the regulation of the part of the law in question. I was hoping this would happen before the first reading. Unfortunately, it didn't. I am an opposition Member, and I might be pleased to bathe in the government and the Minister, but I have never considered the defence and security of our country as a policy or an instrument of competition. I appreciate my belonging to the Czech Republic so much that I am not subject to such seductions to the destruction of the defence law, but, on the contrary, patiently for months I have been trying to help the Minister to finally discuss the laws of the House. I have the support of the Civil Democratic Party, which has always been responsible for ensuring our country's defence. Even though we were in government, we have always looked for a broader consensus in these essential matters for the functioning of our state than just the coalition. However, I have to say one thing honestly - I consider it a mistake that one of the most important laws of our country, the defence law, will be discussed by the salami method in which the elements of popular creativity in the form of parliamentary proposals will be incorporated. That's not right. I would like to live in a country where the government, as the peak of executive power, will clearly stand behind its draft law of defence and will not put us in a position where today we are voting on something that will make significant changes. And what changes it will be, even at this point, we don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u15	My colleague, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. I hereby announce to the House that a delegation from the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea led by President of His excelence, Mr Chung hwa, has arrived today to visit the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome. [[Members for the applause in the benches are rising.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u16	It would be simple and perhaps systemically correct now to propose that the bill be returned to the government for recasting. However, the security situation in the world, in Europe and in the Czech Republic itself, is not easy and I am very well aware of how quickly the changes to these laws are needed by our country. That is why the Civil Democratic Party will vote for the release of the amendment for second reading. However, I expect that the Minister will soon come up with some meaningful proposals that will remove the criticisms that have arisen. There's no point in repeating what the government bill contains. You could all read it. I just want to limit myself to three points. One. I clearly want to declare that we have no problem with the drainage process itself. We have a problem with the general contributions of whole years at peace time and their subsequent preparation of non-preparation of voluntary and not mandatory exercises. The government is to be able to initiate the process at a time of peace, but always selectively according to the needs of the armed forces. In order to comply with the Constitution, it is possible to obtain legal authorisation by the Government, if necessary, to decide at the time of the contribution and subsequently by law in the form of an accelerated procedure, to approve Parliament, both its chambers. Two. What is necessary, on the contrary, is the possibility of calling the members of the so-called compulsory reserve for restoration exercises at a time of peace. The reason is simple. They can be built into staffs, virtually. The command structure of mobilized units, which we lack. At the moment when a detachment is needed, the command structure will be ready and trained, thereby reducing the response time again and increasing the overall flexibility of take-up. Three. I have a big problem with organizing voluntary exercises as is the bill. I have not been told what will happen to those who will practice for three months, what units will be included in, how will their training be renewed, if at all. There's a risk they're just gonna come shoot each other, and then we're gonna lose them, so it's gonna be inefficient. And according to the budget plans, this entire analysis would cost one billion a year. In order to make sense, it would have to be mandatory training followed by some refresher exercises. But that would probably be a return to basic military service, and that is not what anyone is talking about today. However, I reject half-steps, which unfortunately is this case of a government proposal. At this point, it is also completely inappropriate to smash volunteering. It is expressed in the service in active reserve. Let's focus on her, support her. It's the first thing we should be working out next to a professional army, and let's not make any moves. Finally, I believe that it is necessary to renew wider education for the population, especially for young people, on defence and security issues. I'm sorry the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports isn't sitting here right now. I would like to ask her and the Minister of Defence whether, following a project called POKOS, it is a shortcut to preparing citizens to defend the state, both of which have sometimes considered, for example, the inclusion of compulsory camps for secondary school students, because it is precisely an age electorate that we should address, so that this not-so-friendly demographic development will at least be petrified in the future. Personally, I would consider these camps to be more meaningful than doing voluntary three-month exercises. At these several-day or weekly camps, students of say, third or fourth-year secondary schools would be able to receive information completely organized about defence and security not only from soldiers, but also from firefighters, policemen, paramedics. Students would learn more about the foundations of first aid, topography, antichemical defense, but also the importance of the army, police, firefighters, paramedics and so on. Military uniforms have disappeared from our streets. If I can speak from my experience, with the fact that I am, of course, a slightly different case by being a member of the Defence Committee, I can see uniforms, but now that we have taken advantage of the possibility of active backups at some of our primary schools that have shown and explained to ninth grade students what actually involves their activities, a number of children have admitted to seeing military uniforms for the first time. Yes, we have a professional army. I am glad for that, but on the other hand, the voluntary advances that we already have in our legal order and want to amend them so that the situation even in the recruitment of these active advances is better, so it cannot disappear from our society any awareness of what the army is doing and why it is here. So I would like to ask the Minister if, in addition to the things that we will discuss in the Defence Committee, he could give us some information at some other meeting with the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports on how we will try to involve the generation, which is now fourteen, fifteen, and which legisvacants, before the proposal is effective, but also valid, so that perhaps by then it will come close to maturity and can join the professional army or backup, so that we can prepare this generation and start this generation before it has been done now. Thank you for your attention. And, as I said, the Civic Democratic Party Club will support the proposal for second reading and we will hope that the comments that I have made here will be adjusted enough in the original government proposal to support the draft defence law at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u17	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. Allow me, before I give the floor to the rapporteur's factual remark, to state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Today, Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for the whole day, from 11.30 to 13 o'clock Mrs Nytrová, from 11 to 13 o'clock Mr Jeroným Tejc, from 11 to 15 o'clock Mrs Radka Maxová and Vice-President Jermanová from 11 to 14 o'clock. Now, the rapporteur's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, through Mr President to Jana Černochová: Optimism fills my soul at this point, because that is exactly what it is. Discuss the problems after eleven years of inactivity, which is accompanied by the defence of our state. We're in a very difficult situation. Only these discussions, these subjects, these proposals will help us to find solutions. I thank her very much for these proposals, because when I compare it with the debate on the defence law back then with Minister Picko, who we both managed together, the discussion was so much easier. Today, given the risks of this state, it corresponds to what we call the security of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u19	I thank Mr Klučka for keeping time on the point of fact. We continue with Mr Ivan Gabal. Mr. Alexandr Černý will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u20	Thank you. Hello. Mr President, government, colleagues, although I will speak more to the legislation being discussed, I will also speak to the two following laws, so that we can save some time and integrate the debate. In the present law, we are dealing with the rest of the rather hasty professionalization of our army from the beginning of the new millennium in terms of our ability to involve more citizens of this country in its defence. We do so in accordance with our jurisdiction to the Western world, in a way consistent with the rule of law, the Constitution and the Charter of Human Rights, i.e. We don't make decrees. Of course, we implement these legislative and defensive debts in response to a change in the security environment after 25 years of life in complete safety, even at this time, Europe has not gone without a war. Today, however, the risk is not only clearer and more specific, but also the threat of its escalation more acute. That is why we review and need to increase our ability to defend ourselves in ways that match both the risks and our options. After a long time of searching for us, the Ministry of Defence has decided to provide us with a suitable way of improving our defence capabilities to ensure the possibility or ability of military service by means of mandatory contributions of the respective age years of men and women, at least knowing how many citizens are capable of fulfilling their duties in an emergency. This option, especially in conjunction with the fact that it is not followed by a more demanding form of compulsory training and military service, undoubtedly corresponds to an effort and tendency not to increase significantly the expenditure on defense and not fundamentally change the nature of our army unless it is necessary. In discussing this variant, led by the Defence Committee with the Ministry of Defence and with the General Staff, a different view has gradually prevailed, and I dare say across the political composition of the Defence Committee, namely that the backbone of our defense is the collective defence of NATO, our ability to provide or accept military assistance by professional army and advances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u21	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I'm gonna ask my colleagues here in this group on the left to move the debates into the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u22	So in this view, the key to our defenses is the professional Army of the Czech Republic and its training backups, which we are able to provide to allies and also use for our defences. In a specific strategic debate, therefore, the view prevailed that the condition of our professional army and its backups is more important to our safety than the registration fees, which are not followed by training, because we do not have financial or technical capacity for such a model. If we look at today's state of the Army of the Czech Republic, then it cannot be ignored that only in terms of the number of women and men in arms we are moving at 16,000 and the key formations are about 65 percent of the state, and we need to get somewhere to the total number of 27,000. For illustration: The deployment and annual maintenance of several hundred soldiers to protect Vrbětic seriously weakens our ability to participate in collective defence activities. Similar is the situation of backups, where we have approximately 1500 women and men, and we would need about three times, and in particular to be able to train regularly with the Army of the Czech Republic and maintain their fighting skills. From the point of view of the necessary defence expenditure, we spent 0.95% in 2014, and in NATO we moved in the last ten countries. With a deduction of seven billion social costs contained in the Ministry of Defence's budget, we are even about 0.81% and the penultimate before Luxembourg. Overall, from the point of view of our contribution to collective defence, we are not entirely in the position of a stowaway, but we are among the countries that do not contribute to the common and own defence of adults and in a fully justified way. This, of course, does not make us safer. Without underestimating the abilities of our soldiers, in many ways some of their combat techniques are older than they are. We have a great debt in this, too, and we are therefore unable to defend ourselves only by our own forces and we would be dependent on the help of the allies. From this side and from this strategic perspective, it is clear that the key element of our defence is not the goal, but professional soldiers and backups, and they need to be invested with purpose, balance sheet, but increased. For these reasons, the present law is modified in its concept and will be amended in cooperation with the Ministry during the second reading so that the contributions are not flat but rather voluntary, and in particular to be followed by the necessary intensive training. We will therefore abandon the concept of registration fees, however much the obligation of our legislation will not disappear. It has support for the Czech public, however the professional army is clearly perceived as the basis of our defence. As Vice-President of the Defence Committee of the House, I would like to ask for the release of the draft for second reading and for the creation of a space for its corresponding recasting, taking into account the importance of legislation and the development of a security situation where the return of the draft for the revision of the necessary legislation to defend the country would significantly delay and delay. I would also like to publicly thank my colleague and colleagues in the Committee on Defence for the work they have done in the debate on our defence strategy. I would also like to ask the Government to consider accelerating the increase in defence spending due to the development of the security situation as well as our commitments to the allies. At its next meeting, the Defence Committee will address the issue of the pace and quality of drawback, as well as the concept of the development of the Army of the Czech Republic, so that we can rationally turn spending into the necessary increase in the fighting capabilities of the Army of the Czech Republic and in the interests of all citizens of this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u23	I thank Mr Ivan Gabal and now Mr Alexander Černý will speak, Mr Antonín Seďa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u24	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make just a few comments, because something has already been said here, and the truth has led the way, there is not much to say about the draft itself. Mrs Černochová has already indicated the main reason why not, I will just point out that I imagined it would be a little different. We all agree, without a doubt, that Europe and the world are not too safe and safe. I'm quite glad that the previous speakers didn't get into the delicate problem of who was responsible, because that would probably block the House's negotiations, and that's why I won't. But let me just remind you that at all possible and impossible levels, the security community agrees in one, and that's the fact that it's been better in this area. So there are not too many pleasant prospects ahead of us. I am not a truly pessimist, and I hope that the experts are at least a little wrong and that in some future we will get back to the stage, that we will evaluate the security situation a little more mildly and more leniently, but this is certainly a very long-term process. The same long-term process is anything to do with the military. [[12.00 hours]] If we've gone into professionalism more than a decade ago, we can see something after that decade, there are some results and we can look back. I'm not going to analyze all possible and impossible concepts and strategies right now, and I don't know what's already been accepted, the white books, and what has led to that. I will just state that all the latest materials, including the statements made by the other man of the Alliance today, at a time when he was still Chief of Staff and certainly had the most up-to-date view of the matter as to the state of our army, how combatable it is, how it is able to perform its basic duties, that is quite well known. I'm not just talking about the hundred or more billion internal debt right now, but I'm thinking mostly staffing. And that's not just about professionals. We've heard the numbers here: 16-17 thousand, 65 percent fullness. But for example, active backups, which have already been mentioned, which we also want to get to some level for many years, but we are not doing well there either. And all this in an atmosphere that, by all means, should be quite favorable, in an atmosphere where fear is basically what we stand up and lie down with today. Thanks to global information about what is happening in the world today, and often even the unprofessional work of a whole range of media today, man is afraid of almost everything. And in addition to fear, we should also be helped by a huge unemployment rate, which is now falling slightly in season, but otherwise it is constantly around half a million unemployed, in many cases even more. And yet we can't fill anything. Are we just going to rely on the money? Do we increase the rewards of active bookmarks or anyone else? Maybe it'll help a little. I'm not questioning that at all. But it certainly won't solve the basic problem, and I think it is, and it will be, for a while. The problem is to balance what the defence law assumes, that is, duty. I hope that what happened now will not happen, that it will be decided practically from day to day by the Ministry of Defence - and if you take the original proposal, including the explanatory report, and you see the space that was devoted to explaining why it is necessary to make mandatory contributions, why it is necessary, why the army needs such evidence to strategically plan to motivate people, and I don't know what all this is said to increase the nation's awareness of the obligation to participate in the defence of the homeland, and then we'll know almost from one day to the next that someone will propose to us, we don't even know who yet, because it's supposed to be an amendment to probably someone from our colleagues, that we're just gonna be there, and that we're gonna be dealing with the whole original 200-page material for the most substantial and important without compensation, because if the replacement should be the creation of a new category of new backup workers, then I'm worried that we'll be where we'll be, and that we'll be dealing with the problem again for a number of years. It's a very sensitive subject, I admit. But the survey, which the Minister mentioned at the end of his speech, makes it clear that more courage would probably suit us at the moment and that it is not always necessary to give up all thoughts just because there are some extreme opinions on the web. Since it really doesn't make sense to deal with the press text at the moment, it will probably make very significant changes, I would just like to point out that given the situation, the atmosphere in which we are located, neither will we propose a return to a recast or some radical solution, provided that the deadline is extended by at least 30 days, i.e. 90 days. And we will very much hope that the active share of the Ministry will be dominant in the creation of the law, because relying on folk creativity - and not only today, but also in the previous days we have been warned many times before such fundamental laws, and the defence law belongs to the category of the most essential without a doubt, so that such fundamental laws form on our knees and on the basis that we may hit the demand. I'm not going to continue to dissect the draft, because it's really not worth it at the moment. Moreover, it may eventually prove appropriate to engage in certain specific matters. So I will be very close to both eyes when the vote is taken on the release of the law until the next reading. And if it weren't for the opening floscules, how dangerous it is today, and what condition our army is in today, there's no way I would agree otherwise to release to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I thank the honourable Member and Mr Holík is now signed up with a point of fact. Mr Seďa will be ready, then Mrs Váhalová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u26	Mr President, ministers, fellow Members, I would like to return to the words of some of my previous speakers here. From what I've heard, our army has 16 to 17,000 professional soldiers, which in a way is fine, but we have no backup in 11 years. I remember when I was in the army, I thought it was a waste of time, but it taught me some habits. For the record, I learned something about combat technology, and even after 40 years, I remember something else. Nowadays, a young generation doesn't have this. I can't imagine how many of you, us, and all of us can throw a 20-pound bag on their backs and walk for, like, 20 kilometers. It pulls on the back of a technique, living with nature and surviving in it is something other than dancing at a disco, although it is also a great sport. Of course, we live in a democratic society, and for that reason we cannot demand a real military service. But I am fully in favour of this volunteer, and I recommend that this law be passed for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mr Seďa, Mrs Váhalová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Minister, as has been said, the main objective of the amendment to the law is to enable the armed forces to plan their eventual development on war numbers effectively. Therefore, it extends the citizen's ability to voluntarily prepare to defend the state and enables active advances to be involved in operational deployment and in the liquidation of emergencies. The Act introduces military services and compulsory contributions to citizens over 18 years of age. It also introduces the definition of mobilization and demobilization of the armed forces. Personally, I do not like allowing members of active advances in operational deployment abroad, if you want in foreign missions, up to seven months a year. From my point of view, it is not possible for Czech army to be replaced by professional soldiers because of the incompleteness of the Czech army or because of the limitation of the regeneration period between foreign operations in fulfilling international obligations. [[12.10 hours]] I understand that the state must, in turn, have an overview of the numbers of its citizens for deployment at the time of the threat of the country, mobilization or war. Nevertheless, I do not understand why the obligation to carry out the necessary duties extends from a state or state of war to a state of peace, such as a threat to sovereignty, territorial integrity or democratic foundations of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, I would like to ask the heretical question why the procedure for compulsory contributions is so administratively demanding. The explanatory memorandum states that the military needs to verify the health and physical condition of the population capable of carrying out military activity. At the same time, the draft committees will only, and again, investigate the health of the recruiters. I therefore believe that such compulsory contributions should be exempt from the law. Dear colleagues, wouldn't it be more appropriate for the whole process to be dealt with administratively on the basis of the expert opinion of the physician? After all, the Office for Personal Data Protection draws attention to the fact that only a doctor is entitled to sensitive health issues. And the protection of personal data is linked to the fact that the regional authorities are to plan to secure a selection of additions to the armed forces in a state of threat. I would still understand that, but at the same time they have the opportunity to make decisions on working aid in favour of the army in a peaceful state, in cooperation with the municipal authorities with extended scope. Again, it is a problem of leaking sensitive data, the possibility of corruption, or even the possibility of abuse against its political competitors. Regardless of the fact that a particular profession, such as medical personnel, doctors, pharmacists or drivers, will be separated from the register. Is it really necessary to introduce such an administratively complex system, which will also harass citizens beyond the necessary? I have two specific comments on my own amendment to the law. The first concerns the second part of Act No. 222/1999 Coll., on securing the defence of the Czech Republic, namely § 66, 68, where high fines are imposed in the course of criminal proceedings. The same in part four, where Law No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, where in § 370 and 371 the content and amount of crimes against military subjection and against military honor changes. The second comment relates to § 73a The scope of the territory of military retreats to the region, where not only there but also in annexes No. 1 and 3 of this law is stated military retreat of Brdy. He was, as far as I understand it, only recently cancelled. Finally, I would like to state that both the defence law and the reserve service law were discussed two years ago, and then I was at a meeting with the former Minister of Defence and made a number of comments, which were not, however, incorporated. And, as you can see, they are not even taken into account in the proposal. Despite all my reservations, I will support the second reading of the law in the Guarantee Committee, because there is an agreement with the Minister to remove the comments made by the members of the Defence Committee. Personally, I merely doubt that the members of the Defence Committee will succeed in adopting changes that will meet the objectives expected by the military by the original amendment to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u29	And thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mrs Váhalová to prepare Mr Ludvík Hovorka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a long-awaited amendment to the defence law, which we are supposed to respond to the growth of security risks and a significantly worsening global security situation. The main proposed change is the renewal of compulsory contributions. These are intended to cover both men and women who reach 18 years of age and the aim is to enable the creation of reserve soldiers, the verification of their medical and personal capacity to perform military active duty. Using this information database The Ministry of Defence will create conceptual models of the use of these advances, their activation, preparation for carrying out the tasks of the armed forces or motivational offer for such preparation at a time of peace. At the same time, we are assured that this is not a return to basic military service or mandatory military exercises. The army will continue to be founded at a time of peace on professional soldiers. However, I fear that this proposal will not bring about an increase in the fighting capacity of the Czech army; rather, there will be unnecessary spending of unearned resources and a certain disenchantment of young people and their families. According to estimates, this call procedure will cover hundreds of thousands of 18-year-old women and men who will learn whether they are capable or not, and if they become soldiers in reserve without any training. Considering they're not gonna be trained, if they don't volunteer, it's actually gonna be soldiers on paper. In order to make sense, this contribution should follow the training and its regular renewal. However, the logical question is whether, in the case of this, for example, we have enough equipment in storage for such work. Personally, I think it would be more appropriate to focus more on the conquest of a professional army, complement its numbers and modernise its capacities. We should also focus more on building active backups. I read in the professional press that the Czech army is currently able to fight for at most two weeks. It is a question of whether, in case of a threat, we would even have time to train such soldiers. I note that training lasts at least eight to ten weeks. The ability requires the interplay of units, both among themselves and in firing teams, and the management of state-of-the-art technology under stress conditions. I welcome the fact that the next part of the amendment deals with active advances. It is more efficient to build a professional military base and work with active backups, create conditions for their training and provide them with adequate equipment. The draft law is intended to abolish the current contractual concept of a soldier's relationship in active reserve and state with free possibility of termination and to replace it with a relationship based on the decision of the Regional Military Headquarters. At the same time, the Institute introduces services in operational deployment, which represents the deployment of a soldier in reserve to carry out the tasks of the armed forces of the Czech Republic and abroad to support troops from the profession. However, I do not agree with this. I believe that active advances should be used only for the territory of the Czech Republic and should not be broadcast on foreign missions. Only professional soldiers should be deployed abroad. And professional training. On the basis of the above, I am afraid that the amendment, as presented to us now here, will not lead to an increase in the defence of the Czech Republic, which is why I have a problem supporting it in my current form. However, I am prepared to support the shift of this amendment to second reading and submission to the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u31	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Černochová is now reporting with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think a colleague from a woman might understand better, but she doesn't. Active advances are also made up of compulsory advances, where professional soldiers who have already ceased their active activities in accordance with Law 221. But they're people trained, and nothing should stop them from applying all the skills they've done in the years they've worked for the military in active backups.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u33	Thank you. Mr Hovorka has now duly signed up for the debate. Mr. Skalický will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, when the basic military service was disrupted a few years ago, it was pointed out that this would save us considerable resources. Now, years later, it turns out that the basic military service is likely to be needed again. And this law, although it is said that it doesn't have the character of a compulsory military service, basically says something else if you compare certain sections. I'd like to point that out. [[12.20 hours]] If you look at Section 5 Voluntary performance of the charge of active backup, each can be executed, but only for a period of three years by decision or order, i.e. placed in the so-called active service into an active backup. This has the character of a compulsory service. § 12 Preparation of a soldier in reserve to carry out the task of the armed forces. Military training is not specified. The law can also give rise to the obligation of so-called help in brotherly quotation marks during exercises on foreign territory. At least 12 weeks of training are required by everyone whom regional military headquarters by decision appoints into active backup. This has the character of a basic compulsory service - for 12 weeks in the first year of service and in the second and third years of service it is a four-week period in the calendar year. A total of about 20 weeks in three years. This corresponds to about five months of basic presentation service. And it's probably spread out for three years to make it more possible to deploy within three years. § 12a Service in operational deployment. A soldier in active reserve performs a service in operational deployment in or outside the territory of the Czech Republic up to seven months in a calendar year, according to the needs of the armed forces. On the order of thirty days a soldier goes for seven months a year and does not have the opportunity to refuse deployment outside the Czech Republic. This will allow deployment into missions outside the Czech Republic without declaring war. § 13 Occupation for military exercises or exceptional military exercises and the entry of their performance into the service in operational deployment. On orders within 30 days he goes for seven months of the year and does not have the opportunity to refuse deployment outside the Czech Republic a soldier in active reserve, who has already so-called enlisted, is on exercise and so on, is ordered immediately. Furthermore, Section 16 Emergency Service. That's where mobilization counts on everyone, and that's mandatory. Women don't have an exception. And in the original version, women were called only for war or at risk, where they had grown children over 15 years of age. In this case, the war effort of women with child care under the age of 15 has the character of a total war. § 25 Exceptions to the obligation to appear in the draft proceedings and to perform an exceptional service. Anyone can be taken here. A predestined reserve soldier could mean he's the one who's gonna be designated. As regards Section 32 of the notification obligation, there was no such thing in the original version of this Act in force. Regarding the amendment of Act 222/1999 § 6 - Ministry and other central offices and the Czech National Bank - organizational change in proceedings. Departure from crisis management to parallel structure in regional military headquarters. This is also a completely new element. Furthermore, Section 54 Application of the Act to the fulfilment of international obligations. State resources can be used in a foreign country essentially without Parliament's control. All you have to do is declare a state of emergency. One more comment. Commentary on Constitutional Act No. 300/2000 Coll. of 9 August 2000 amending the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The European Integrated NATO Air Defence System was built on the basis of the NATO Military Committee's directive. This system has been the cornerstone of NATO doctrine's collective defence policy for decades. It ensures the integrity of NATO's European airspace and demonstrates the political and military coherence of its Member States. The obligations arising from this system include: limiting the sovereignty of the state by considering the airspace of the Czech Republic as part of the European airspace of NATO, transferring the dedicated forces and resources of the Czech Army under the operational command of the Commander-in-Chief of NATO Allied Armed Forces in Europe, with these forces and means being used, if necessary, to defend the airspace of other European NATO States, the authorisation of NATO Allied Force Commander-in-Chief to issue an order to use the arms in carrying out the task. But this law, as it is presented, is shifted. It's basically an integrated doctrine of defense under Article 5 into the Constitution - a system of command in the military. There's not a word about land operations in the Constitution. So the law seems to go beyond this framework. The amendment is a substantial extension of the army's activities, and I think it must also be enshrined in the Constitution. That's just my opinion that I can argue with, but as I read the law, it came to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jiří Skalický, who is now duly enrolled in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u36	Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say here as a member of the Defence Committee very briefly on all three amendments to the relevant laws, that is to say the defence law, the Act on reserve soldiers and the armed forces of the Czech Republic. Many of these were, in fact, my previous speakers, particularly shortcomings, reproaches. Therefore, I will not deal in detail with this area. I would just like to say here that the TOP 09 and the Mayors are aware of the fundamental importance of all three amendments to the laws that are, of course, interlinked, and we are prepared to support all three amendments and send them to the defence committee for second reading, where, of course, I expect and expect a heated debate, because, of course, there is something that can be added to each law, something to reduce or have an opinion that does not always correspond with what is presented. At the same time, we will support a proposal to extend the deadline to 90 days. I would also like it if the time was longer, because I think it's just worth it. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Chalupa. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u38	Good morning. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have just a brief speech on the fact that there are other committee members working in the Committee on Defence who have not signed up for the debate, but also for them I say that all those working in the Committee are working very intensively, and according to what I have heard here, I would very much welcome what has been said here to bring your comments on the defence law - on the one hand, to inform your representatives who are working in the Committee on Defence - through these of their representatives to the Defence Committee. To explain it right here in plenary, I think it's a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I see no one, in which case I end the general debate and ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final floor. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, my premonition to discuss this very important standard has come true and I thank you for all the speeches, including those which will accompany the negotiations of the guarantee committee at the time of 90 days, which, Mr Vice-President, I officially propose at this point that we vote on it as an extension of the deadline for the second reading. [[12.30 hours]] At the same time, let me take one more vote at a time. This concerns other points related to the package, i.e. about soldiers in reserve and armed forces. We just won't be able to make it in one hour, and I would very much like to vote before one hour on the interruption of these points and their continuation in the chronology as it is, at six o'clock in the evening after oral interventions. At that point, I also assume that the time of today's negotiations was approved at the time of approval of the House's agenda, that we will act today after 19th, 21st, and I think that 24th hour has also fallen. If that is not the case, then let this proposal also be voted out. If that's the case, then it's all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-07-09-ps2013-029-07-002-033.u41	Thank you, rapporteur. That's exactly what I was going to suggest. That means I'm going to interrupt at 12.55 and we're going to put an election point in there, and then after six o'clock, we're going to continue with the approved program. I've registered your motion to extend the hearing period to 90 days. Personally, I am convinced that we have agreed that we will continue to act after 24 o'clock. I'll check it out, but I think we approved it right at the beginning of our meeting. We will therefore continue now and discuss the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a motion to discuss the Defence Committee as a committee of guarantee, and I ask whether it is proposing another committee as a guarantee committee other than the Defence Committee. It's not like that. I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm going to check you out and ask you to come forward again. So we will now proceed to the vote and I will read what we will be voting on. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 237, the Members present are 137, in favour of proposal 134, against 1. I note that the proposal has been approved, and I also note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I therefore ask whether anyone proposes to order this material to other committees for discussion. I don't see a request, so I'm saying that this material has been ordered by the Defence Committee, and this committee is also a guarantee committee. There was also a proposal in the general debate to extend the deadline to 90 days. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of extending the deadline to 90 days. Who's against the proposal? It's vote 238, in any case, in order to be procedurally okay, I should have asked the appellant first if he agreed to extend the deadline. That means, first I ask if the appellant agrees to extend the deadline to 90 days. [[Yes.]] Thank you. I will mark the previous vote as misguided, and I will have it voted once more. I repeat the vote and ask who agrees to extend the deadline to 90 days. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 239, the Members present are 144, in favour of proposal 140, against none. I'm saying we've extended the deadline to 90 days. That concludes this discussion of the point. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
