ParlaMint-CZ_2015-06-18-ps2013-030-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take your seats. I would like to start the 30th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies at the request of 45 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Wednesday 17 June. It is recalled that according to § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall decide on such a proposal without debate, because it cannot be amended. So I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and report the replacement card numbers if necessary. Mrs Semelová has a replacement card 68. The other replacement cards I refer to the minutes of the 29th meeting, as well as the apologies for today. We will proceed to identify the verifiers of this meeting. I'm gonna ask the House once more for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, we have our first vote at this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Pavel Čihák and Mr Jiří Dolejš as the verifier of this meeting. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I have begun voting order number 1 and I ask who is in favour of identifying the proposed verifiers. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 1, from 132 for 130, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that the verifiers of the 30th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies have been appointed by Mr Pavel Čihák and Mr Jiří Dolejš. As far as apologies are concerned, I am once again stating that apologies apply for today's 29th meeting. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act, the Chamber of Deputies shall decide only on the agenda of the meeting referred to in the request. It is therefore not possible to propose amendment or addition of the agenda. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will vote on the proposal for a 30th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I've started a number two vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 2, from 139 in favour of 136, against no one. The agenda for this meeting has been approved. We will therefore proceed to the agenda of the meeting, which is
