ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u1	130. Government bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on Roadways, as amended, Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Roads and on Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended, and other related laws /German press 374/ - Second reading Under the authority of the Government, this proposal will be made by the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the contents of the government bill are in particular: 1. the protection of publicly accessible special purpose communication against pollution, destruction and damage; 2. the regulation of the powers of the municipal authorities in the field of the exercise of state administration, the transfer of the powers of the road administrative office from the municipal authorities of the municipalities to the municipal authorities of the municipalities with extended scope; 3. changes in the concept and definition of categories and classes of motorways, roads and follow-up to the highest permitted speeds; 4. handling towed motor vehicles, or their wreckage; 5. the possibility of excluding transit freight transport on roads II. and III. classes; 6. arrangements to facilitate the legal and property preparation of road construction, public utility for the use of general expropriation arrangements, valuation of material burdens; 7. adaptation of the process of establishing local and transitional arrangements for road traffic. The proposal also contains partial modifications based on practice: road crossings with runways, control weighing, infrastructure management, toll changes, tolling. The proposal also includes the abolition of a valid but still ineffective amendment to the Road Act, which was to change the way in which the payment of the time fee for the use of selected roads was to be paid, from a paper roadmark to an electronic device. In its resolution of 16 February 2015, the Economic Committee recommended that the proposal be approved as a total of 11 amendments. These proposals can be partly supported by the petitioners, but I cannot support the proposals aimed at adjusting the proposed changes in the performance of the public administration at the level of the municipalities and, in particular, with the proposed changes in the position of the transport police in the process of laying down traffic signs. The Government's proposal therefore contains a summary of the changes that are very necessary for application practice, so let me ask you to support this House press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u3	Thank you, Minister. 23 days. 1. At the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the press was ordered to discuss the Economic Committee. The transitional provision of the amendment to our Rules of Procedure states that, if it is not clear to the Chamber of Deputies before the amendment is effective, which committee is a guarantee committee, the Guarantee Committee shall designate the Chamber of Deputies. In the present case, the draft law was directed only to the Economic Committee as a single committee and it is therefore clear that this committee is a guarantee committee. Therefore, we do not need to vote on the designation of the guarantee committee. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 374/1 and 374/2 and I am now asking the rapporteur of the Economic Committee of Mr Karel Šidl to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, Members of the Government, allow me no longer to return to the rapporteur's report from the first reading, when I made a detailed comment from the rapporteur's point of view on the proposed amendment points, which affect both the provisions of Act No. 13, so into Act No. 361, on road traffic, and devoted only to what I have now been asked to do, and this is acquainted or mentioned here by the resolution of the Economic Committee of the 17th meeting of 26 February 2015. This resolution on the Government Bill amending Act No. 13, on roads, as amended, and Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on road traffic and changes to certain laws, under House printing 374, the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of Deputy Minister of Transport Milan Feranc and the report by Mr Karel Šidl, after a general and detailed debate, recommended that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House press number 374 as amended by the approved amendments. As the Minister of Transport has already said, there are indeed 11 amendments. If I am to comment on them in any way, I must say objectively, as rapporteur, that amendments have also been adopted which have not been fully supported following the comments of the Ministry of Transport as tabled amendments to the Economic Committee. It really concerned those provisions of the amendment to the Act, which should have been adapted by amendments related to the extended scope of municipal authorities, with the release of the concept of road vegetation, were not supported, virtually. further amendments were adopted which were related to the lack of full support from the Ministry of Transport. I can say that the important fact is that if I closely followed the preparation of today's second reading, there are already six further amendments to the Houses of Documents, which will certainly be read at second reading, and we will only be able to comment on them in the course of the next meeting of the Gesture Economic Committee and I as rapporteur at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate, in which the President of the Civic Democratic Party Council Zbyněk Stanjura has signed up first and foremost. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u6	Thank you for the floor. First of all, our club supports this bill. That's the basic thing I'd like to say. No wonder when the 1001 House press from the last parliamentary term is almost identical - almost, not entirely - with this press. I want to mention a few things. The bill, and it was also the original one, allows for an increase in speed on Class 1 roads by 20 kilometers where conditions permit it. That must be said, and I think the proposal is correct. At the same time, I would like to remind my colleague, Ivan Adamec, who is duly excused today. Then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for his amendment so that we can complete all the procedures. [[15.40 hours]] We propose that similar provisions apply to motorways. This means that there is a possibility on motorways to increase the allowed speed by 20 km in principle under the same conditions. This means where safety - especially road safety will make it possible. We even think that these marks should not be permanent, but that they should also respond to weather or visibility. I think there's a technique to it today so it's possible that there doesn't always have to be a sheet metal or plastic to make it work that way. When some colleagues asked me where I could imagine, I'll give you an example, I don't know if you all go there. If you know part of D1 from Olomouc to Ostrava, there is a really beautiful section where there are three lanes in each direction, traffic relatively mild, and there really think there are such conditions that in good visibility and good weather the allowed speed can increase by 20 km per hour. One of the things we should be debating isn't in this law if we don't consider that where they're allowed higher speeds than usual, whatever they are... [[To the noose on the right side of the hall:]] Gentlemen, please. Where there will be an increased speed of 20 km permitted on those selected sections, if the Minister does not consider breaking the rules, if the penalties are not higher than when the duties on those sections where the standard speed are broken. I think it has logic. Because if we pick the sections where the higher speed is allowed, we're saying that this more comfortable road can be used by drivers at higher speed, but it mustn't mean that classic when it's 50, I'm doing 60, and nothing will happen to me. I think that's a question that we could discuss, if the selected sections are broken by regulations and the increased speed allowed, if there should be higher financial penalties, or if more points should not be taken away, etc. It is not the content of this law, but I think it is a matter if the law is passed, and I suppose it is, which we can deal with. He won't let me mention on this occasion the 180 Houses of the Press that my colleagues and I filed a year ago. 12 months ago. It hasn't come to the first reading yet, and it will not happen again at this meeting. We picked one thing out of the 1001 press, and we added one. We chose this thing - we didn't want to do it, we didn't want to do this big amendment by the draft of the law. We gave the mayors the opportunity to ban the entry of heavy trucks to communications where those trucks don't belong, in case circumstances allow. And we've added something that wasn't in the original bill, which means we still have electronic faults for personal vehicles in force legislation, they're supposed to work from 1 January 2016, and if we cancel them, whether the Ministry of Transport likes it or doesn't like it, they have to prepare the introduction. Nobody supports it today, but it's in the law. That's the thing that needs to be added against the original 1001. The Government, or the Legislative Council of the Government under the leadership of Jiří Dienstbier, has written a negative opinion on this, which was longer than our bill proposal and our explanatory report, paraphrased - we will prepare better, more complex by August, so I say, by August 2014. Obviously, the government failed. The government has passed on the motion to abolish electronic guilt, I welcome that, and I admit that it has rephrased, made it a little more precise for the municipalities to ban the entry of trucks. But we could have done that in second reading. And we also offered cooperation to the then Minister of Transport, that it is simply not a problem, if the legislative or legal department of the Ministry of Transport comes with a better solution, there is no reason for us to go overboard and not support the better version. Unfortunately, at least for the mayors of the affected cities, who now have heavy cars on the roads that aren't supposed to be driving there, we've lost 12 months. That doesn't mean we're against it today. We'd be against each other. So if this bill successfully reaches its third reading and is approved, then we will withdraw our bill, say that the government has been inspired, and the two partial things have been worked out. Those are really partial things that have nothing to do with this complex change in the concept of the motorway network. So I've justified the amendment. I'd like to ask the Minister to consider this before the third reading, because I think that if the police don't find such a section, then the paragraph will simply not be used. I think there are sections like this, and it's the same principle as the ones on the ones. The nature of the road itself seduces drivers to go there quickly. Especially on those first-class roads, the driver won't know it's not today's "erko," the next, after changing the law, like a freeway. Because he's got the guardrails, he's got two lanes, there's no stops, there's no crossings, and he thinks he's on the freeway. It's quite safe. And when the police want to, they measure and choose and choose there. But the dangerous sections are somewhere else than here. However, I would have one specific question about § 77a, which is rather complicated, it is a local and transitional arrangement of traffic on special purpose roads which are not publicly accessible. The name itself is quite complicated and in the original government proposal it is that if the municipality, or the municipality with extended scope, wants to order the removal of any obstacle, so that it requires a binding position of the police. The Economic Committee adopted an amendment to delete the word 'binding'. That's probably the case where the Department of Transport had a different proposal. I'm not a member of the Economic Committee, but I assume it's one of those cases. On the contrary, this case to me, the economic committee's proposal seemed reasonable to me. 'Cause then let the police handle it, and the municipal office doesn't even get involved when it's binding. It's someone else's decision. I'd like to ask the Minister if he could model for all of us two cases where he thinks the police just have to be right, unlike the municipal authority with extended scope. I don't think so. But I say, it is a detail, no matter what happens to this paragraph, it does not prevent us as citizens' democrats from voting in favour of this proposal. It may look like a detail, but for the mayor who's handling it, it's just not a detail. And we want to give him some kind of tool, because most of the time it comes down to someone complaining, and now the mayor's gotta deal with it. Because citizens do not distinguish who is the mayor, who is the council, and what is delegated to the administration. They come to City Hall and they want them to deal with it. The moment we have a binding position on the police, the mayor won't actually solve it unless a policeman decides. So I think, whether it's the police, or whether it's the municipal authority with extended authority, and then there's just an opinion. And if it's negative and the community decides otherwise, then they have to be able to explain why they decided otherwise. It's not easy. It is very often the case for those officials in cases where the position of the police is negative and although they have the power to decide otherwise, so very often they respect the position or recommendations of the police, it is important. But again, we know some police officers in some regions who are against all the proposed changes. And then you can't actually deal with traffic situations in a city where you need some sort of adjustment. Here I would like to explain if this is the case where the Ministry insists that this is binding, and rather the reason why and what cases could occur so that we can calm the mayors again, that we are not taking away any competence from them and that it is the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u7	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now, first of all, with Mr Pavel Plzák's factual remark - but that is a mistake. So now Mr. Josef Šenfeld is duly registered, after whom is Mr. Daniel Korte. Mr. Mr. Šenfeld. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u8	Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear colleagues, I dare to sign up for my amendment under number 2150, which is published in the electronic document system. I would just like to state, for reasons of justification, that the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Road Act in Section 19 para. 2 proposes to extend the prohibition of pollution to publicly accessible special-purpose communications. This is a communication that farmers, foresters etc. most commonly used in field or forest work. The specifics of agricultural or forestry production do not allow the removal of pollution immediately, as in the case of, for example, beet campaigns, agricultural machinery departs for communication many times a day and therefore require the immediate elimination of pollution is unrealistic. For these reasons, the specific nature of agricultural or forestry production corresponds to the legislation in force, which does not specify in the provisions of § 19 para. 2 of the Road Act. The proposed extension of the road circuit referred to in § 19 para. Therefore, the proposed wording of Section 42b (2) of the Act requires the amendment of the proposed wording. Article 4 (1) (a) (g) and (g) and (g) respectively. (k) that the specifics of field or forest work are taken into account and that the situation cannot be effectively affected is not sanctioned. So much for my justification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u9	I thank Mr Šenfeld. I would like to recommend that he sign up for his proposal in a detailed debate. Now, in the general debate, with Mr Jan Birke's point of fact. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] Please in a detailed debate, i.e. when we have finished the detailed debate. Next to the general debate is Mr Daniel Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment removes the language crime contained in this law. This is the text of the additional table, which reads as follows: excluding transport operators. This table is then a pattern for all others similar, meaning, for example, outside the vehicles of construction. The preposition outside is only connected in Czech language and exclusively with the 4th fall. My amendment therefore eliminates this crime. I have already presented it to the committee, where I have not succeeded very much with it. The Ministry has settled this remark, this proposal, so to speak, in Solomon, and it has acknowledged that I am right, but on the other hand, it would have cost something to change those tables right away. So I agreed with the Minister on a five-year legisvacation. Otherwise, the text is the same as it was at the meeting of the Economic Committee. In the debate in detail, I will then apply to this proposal, which is introduced in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u11	I thank Mr Korte. A proposal that directly eliminates crime is certainly a joy. However, I will also ask Mr Korte to sign up for this proposal in detail, not in the general debate. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Mr. Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u12	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Minister, I would like to ask one question arising from the opening exposé of the Minister of Transport at second reading, when he announced that he would support most of the amendments to the Economic Committee with the exception of about two. One of these proposals concerns the state administration, respectively. the administrative office of the road in the municipalities of the first and second types. The draft law repeals the road administration in the municipalities of the first and second types and local roads, i.e. what has worked here since 1990, and I, as a 125-year-old municipal politician, cannot imagine a situation where a citizen, and let's take a type grandmother, who wants to build a scaffolding for a family house for local communication, will have to go to ask the municipal authority or a municipality with extended scope, after having been given a decision on the special use of local communication to build a scaffold to repair some facade of her house, so she will still have to go to her municipal office or to the municipal office in her municipality to conclude a contract with the relevant municipality, because the municipality is the owner of the local communication. [[with a smile]] To me, this seems to be a whole, more or less huge bureaucracy of public administration in the municipalities. I would like to ask, because I have quite thoroughly studied the explanatory report on this matter, which leads the Ministry of Transport to, after 25 years, abolishing the road administration to local roads at the level of municipalities, more or less what has worked here since at least 1990, and somehow dismantles the state administration at the level of municipal authorities of the first and second types. I have read in the explanatory report that staying in the current state would lead to a continuation of deconcentration of decision-making. I don't think the current situation is bad. That is why I am asking you, Minister, it is not a technical matter, it is not a matter that should be left unnoticed. It is a matter which is very much discussed in the Land of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and you know very well that the Union of Towns and Municipalities is opposed to the abolition of the road administration in the context of this amendment with the municipalities of the first and second types, I note local communication.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u13	I thank Mr Vilímc. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I will end the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Minister, are you interested in the final word? Yes. The Minister is interested in the final word in the general debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u14	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to answer two questions. First question from Mr Stanjura. Rather, our negative position was tied to the authorisation of brands. That is, if the police recognize that there is no good travel route for a brand ban transit, that they can respond to the other thing you said, I am prepared to respond so that if the local roads are, I would say, the knowledge of the local authority is correct, then let's talk about whether there should be a binding position of the police. As regards the transfer of powers from municipalities, what led transport to move the administrative agenda from 1st and 2nd to Trojan, to municipalities with extended scope, was practice, and in particular interpretation practice. During the negotiations on the Economic Committee, it was proposed that certain powers remain on the ones and doubles, and the Ministry of Transport is prepared to agree with this adjustment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u15	I thank the Minister for his final word. The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. I will confirm the Minister's words, because the Economic Committee, when discussing the amendments submitted to him and after the settlement by the Ministry of Transport, is indeed in Section 40 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a), § 40 para. 5 responded to how the Ministry of Transport modified the text of Mr Vácha's original amendment, and the Economic Committee adopted this text with the regulation of the Ministry of Transport in its resolution, so it is part of the already mentioned resolution in the press 374/2. I thought it was good to explain that some steps had already been taken. If, of course, Members consider them inadequate, they still have the opportunity to propose further changes today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u17	I thank the rapporteur for his final words. Since there was no proposal to vote on the return of the law to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation pursuant to § 93 para. 2, I am opening a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. First of all, Mr Jan Birke is reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to apply to the three amendments that are in the system. I'd take it one step at a time by the number of the House documents. The first House document is 2108, which concerns the imposition of fines on administrative offences in the field of low-speed and high-speed vehicle control weighing and weighing costs. [[16.00 hours]] I can say, of course, that this is a rather extensive document, that is, I will try to be brief: However, the proposed amendment of the fine cannot compensate for the loss of revenue, the effect of the cancellation of the costs of weighing, as the region will receive only 45 per cent of the state-owned communication, or 85 per cent, from comparison with the current regulation of the Road Act. This is a social priority, but it cannot be expected from the regions that they will continue to provide control weighing in the current or larger extent if it is a loss-making matter. So this is the first House document. The second House document is under number 2109. These are the commercial companies of the Region, the impact of the transformation of the contribution organisations into commercial companies in connection with the possible possibility of concluding public contracts pursuant to § 9 of Act No. 13/2007 Sb. Short justification. Some regions, as well as the Liberec Region, have transformed their contribution organisations in the management and maintenance of roads owned by commercial companies in order to make it more efficient for the management and maintenance of the roads of the second and third classes. Following this transformation, the contribution organisation remained active, with only employees preparing and securing the roads of the second and third classes, meaning that the executive component of employees, including the fleet and the infrastructure for road management and maintenance, has transferred to commercial companies. In this situation, the State could not transfer the performance of the first class road administration at the edge. That is the second amendment. The third is under House document 2110. These are transit sanctions, this is a lot of discussed bypassing toll gates and going on second and third-class communications. I'd like to give myself a little bit more justification here. The Government's draft law in Article 1, point 43 is inserted into Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, a new Section 24a allowing the transit of freight vehicles on a lower class road to be restricted or prohibited by means of local transport marking. The reason for this change is the interest to avoid unwanted bypassing tolled routes that have a negative impact on the roads of lower classes and the safety of traffic on them. The sanctions for violating this prohibition leave the Government's proposal to Act No. 361/2000 Sb., i.e. for the offence of a truck driver against road traffic rules. However, such a method of sanctioning infringement does not fully correspond to the concept of penalties for infringements of toll obligations, or to the dimensions and weight of the vehicle, where, in addition to the offence of the driver of the vehicle, an administrative offence /sanction/carrier - of the vehicle operator is also established. This concept of dual liability, driver liability, carrier liability reflects more adequately the fact that drivers in this situation are in employment or, where appropriate, similar relationship to a carrier which, as an employer, has a significant impact on the planned routes. The penalties aimed at carriers are also more effective with a view to remedying the situation and preventing illegal behaviour. In view of the above, it is proposed to include in Section 42b of Law No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, a new offence of the vehicle operator consisting of a violation of the ban or restriction on transit traffic. Maximum penalty of 100 thousand. CZK is designed in the same way as the penalty for breach of obligations associated with toll system. These are three amendments, which are under the Houses of Prints 2108, 2109 and 2110. I note that all three were pre-negotiated with the Ministry of Transport, with the fact that, apart from a small justification, their position was positive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u19	Thank you, Mr Birke. Another duly signed up is Mr Šenfeld, followed by Mr Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am merely formally signing up for my Amendment 2150. I gave my reasons in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u21	I thank Mr Šenfeld. Another duly signed up is Mr Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I hereby submit to my amendment, which is included in the system under number 2114. His reasoning is quite brief. It is a proposal for a language crime because it cannot be tolerated that the text of the law, that is, a generally legally binding regulation, does not respect the official language of the State. As regards the second point, the five-year legisvacancy is also clear. The point is to minimize the cost of changing tables. They can thus change continuously as their lifespan ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u23	I thank Mr Korte. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u24	To do what I can - it is an amendment, House document 2143. I am applying for it, although it was submitted by my colleague from the Economic Committee Ivan Adamec, who is duly excused. I was talking about it, but just in case, I'll read the justification my colleague prepared. Allow you to increase the maximum speed permitted on the motorway by up to 20 km as well as on other roads for motor vehicles. The result can be an increase in speed on some sections of motorways up to 150 km per hour. These are mainly newly built sections of low-transport motorways, corresponding to the surface and sufficient viewing conditions. The speed adjustment could be done by means of variable traffic signs, electronic signs, so that the speed increase occurs only provided for good weather conditions and low traffic levels. As an example of suitable sections, D1 can be in the section between Lipník nad Bečvou and Ostrava or between Vyškov and Kroměříž. The section D11 in the section Poděbrady - Hradec Králové or part of the D3 motorway and some newly built motorways. This calls for Amendment 2143.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-04-07-ps2013-026-07-004-130.u25	I thank Mr Stanjur. I do not see any further application for a detailed debate. If no one else is reporting, I will conclude a detailed debate. I am asking the Minister's final words, or the rapporteur's. If they are not, there were no proposals to return, shorten the deadline or any other proposal. I therefore end the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
