ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u1	7. Government bill on termination of pension savings / House printing 493/ - second reading I ask Minister Babiš to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the termination of pension savings and the related proposal. The accompanying law, which I will talk about later, was discussed at first reading on 7 July 2015. The proposals were directed for discussion to the Committee on Budgets, which recommended that they be approved without comments. The main objective of the proposed law is to stop reducing the amount of funds collected under pension insurance premiums for pension payments. The termination of pension savings is proposed to be carried out in such a way that the full ownership rights of the participants are respected and the effects on state administration, pension companies and, in particular, participants are minimised. For these reasons, a participant may decide to use either the possibility of transferring all his funds to his designated account or postal order or the transfer of funds as a contribution to the third pillar. The termination of pension savings is further designed to respect the annual cycle for the payment of pension insurance premiums. The proposals are therefore designed in such a way that the individual steps are always set at a specific date. Therefore, as of 1 January 2016, it is proposed to terminate the pension savings premium. The pension funds will be abolished on 1 July 2016. The appropriations will be paid to participants in the last quarter of 2016 and the winding-up of pension funds will be terminated by transferring funds which will not be paid to participants into an account designated by the insurance administrator, i.e. not later than the first days of January 2017. On the basis of this information and the bill submitted, I would like to ask you to discuss it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee and the resolution of this committee was delivered to you as press 493/1. I ask the rapporteur, who is Mr Roman Kubíček, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of the 27th meeting of 2 September 2015 on the Government Bill on the End of Pension Savings, House Press 493. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Lenka Jurošková, Mr Roman Kubíček's report, and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, to the Chamber of Deputies, that the Government's bill on the termination of pension savings should be approved without comment; Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I have one application so far, and this is Mr Václav Votava's application, which therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I found some papers here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u7	These are Mrs Lorencová's documents, I presume. So please, somebody from the club YES to give it to her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u8	I would also like to comment on this very press on the termination of pension savings, for I did not speak in more detail at first reading, and I think that there are some things that need to be stressed and said again. It must be said that, despite the massive campaign that was waged in the second pillar, only 83,000 have applied for it. participants. There was simply no interest on the part of the citizens. It was not a product that would benefit the state, and of course it was not particularly advantageous for most citizens of this country to save in it for their old age. Despite the arguments of the right-wing opposition, this second pillar was incompetent at the time of its creation. And it is not at all true that it was because social democracy announced that it would be cancelled after the election. That's total nonsense. I think people can think and count. I think that the potential clients of this pillar were well aware of its disadvantage, which was pointed not only to social democracy but also to a number of other parties, as well as to a number of economists. The second pillar was more advantageous for people with above-average incomes. They certainly have other options to invest their funds in order to ensure old age. However, it is necessary to motivate the pension savings primarily for low- and medium-income groups, which are left with little available funds, and the only chance to improve their pension is to save smaller amounts, but to save for a long time, of course. [[10.10 hours]] After all, some financial institutions have been very modest in offering this product. In order to maintain the licence and to ensure the viability of the pension fund, each insurance undertaking had an obligation to obtain at least 50,000 clients and some correctly estimated that it would probably not be real, so they also did not participate in the provision of this product. It is also worth mentioning that the state's zero guarantee for funds placed in private funds and the problematic liquidity of savings money, even for heirs. The opposition, namely the Civil Democratic Party and the TOP 09, criticizes that we are canceling something that they believe worked - so it didn't work, couldn't even work - and that we are also replacing this pillar with nothing. Of course, I would not expect any other reaction from them, it was their child and logically defends their child, preventing the preservation of this dysfunctional unnecessary second pillar. They also point out that the ongoing pillar guaranteed by the state is going into deficit due to demographic developments. Yes, I'm sure it is. The pension system needs to be reformed, it is essential. Obviously, it's not easy after the experiments that were here. I would like to stress that the direction must, however, be long-term and economically, of course, sustainable and meaningful for both the state and, of course, for future pensioners. And we're not talking about the years here, but decades, and it has to be based on a social consensus, to be stable, unchangeable, predictable, so that it doesn't change after every election, so that we simply agree and the duration has been long-term and hasn't changed. Thus, the broken second pillar of pension savings has not fulfilled any of the basic conditions. It was not advantageous for most citizens, it was not advantageous for the state either, because it was draining funds from the traditional interim pillar, so it did not arise on the basis of a social agreement, as I said a moment ago. I do not agree with him either by employers or by trade unions or by the opposition, of course I am talking about the opposition at the time, in which there was social democracy and some other parties, not even by the saver. Moreover, there is a very good third pillar, pension insurance - today it is called a little different, supplementary pension savings, I think I said it right. In this third pillar, which is very popular, there are 5 million clients today. Five million clients trust this pillar. This pillar is supported by the state, it is certainly of interest and it is certainly beneficial to store its resources in it. I think it is necessary to look at the third pillar and make the third pillar more attractive, which I think is one of the ways. Not that we're not offering anything. We offer an attractive third pillar to make the product even more attractive, to save people more in it, and to also involve employers, to contribute to this third pillar to their employees, and to make it advantageous for employers to deduct some of the funds from taxes. Then, in a detailed debate, but up to paragraph 8, which is pension savings and related laws, I will sign up to a set of amendments which, in a way, makes the third pillar more attractive. So, ladies and gentlemen, the second pension pillar was actually dead before he was born, and there is no other way but to be abolished by law. Those who have put their resources in it will certainly not lose their resources and there will be a few ways in which they can use them - either of course choose them or put them in the more attractive third pillar to secure resources for their old age. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u9	Your performance brought up three factual points. First is Mrs Adamová, then Mrs Langšádlová and then President Stanjura. After the facts, there are two priority rights - President Kalousek and President Fiala. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u10	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It really raised me from the chair, because what the chairman of the Votava Budget Committee said here now, of course, contained a number of very demagogical adjustments to what was actually happening with the second pillar. I do not want to extend this debate because we have seen it here many times and you all remember it. But you will also remember that not only I, but many of my colleagues here have asked the coalition how we will maintain the system functional in the long term, so that the current one, which is built on the first pillar, is really sustainable and able to secure the pension, one can tell us all what we are sitting here, and the children who are looking at us from the gallery, are able to tighten it up at a productive age. We still haven't learned that, and we really have no idea how this government imagines that our pension system will work. If you're just counting on the third pillar, you're completely wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u11	Mrs Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this situation is really serious! You don't take any of our comments into account, but the fact is that you're canceling the alternative we came up with, and you're not really coming up with anything that would make our pension system sustainable in the long run. I don't know if you realize how serious a decision you're going to make! Does this mean that future generations will not have a decent pension? Does that mean you're unable to come up with an alternative? This situation is really extremely serious. There are things we can have different opinions about, but look really into numbers. Here the length of life extends, and this is perfect, but there will be a significant reduction in the number of people who will contribute to the system. I think we have a right to know the answers to our questions. It is a very urgent matter, Prime Minister, that at the moment, if you want to cancel the second pillar, you will explain simultaneously and in a clear manner how you will ensure the sustainability of our pension system. Do not postpone this solution, because future generations will not forget it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u13	Please, Mr Stanjura, with another factual remark. Since there have been questions as to how further the applications have been, I will recapitulate: after two prior rights in fact, President Kalousek, President Fiala, and then two regular ones, Mr Kučera and Mr Laudát. Those are all the applications I have so far. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u14	I would like to ask President Votav some questions about how successful the third pillar is. He's successful by being popular and having a lot of clients. In order not to be accused of not reporting a conflict of interest, I am a client in the second and third pillars, because it is advantageous, in the third pillar since 2000, I have been a client of the third pillar for 15 years. I think we like to debate facts and figures in the budget committee. If the President had told us how much money the state had given in the period of existence of the third pillar to this pillar, and how many of them were actually used by citizens in retirement. We know the problem that the money is collected before retirement, and how you say the third pillar works for the pension, that's just not true. And it was one of the points you blamed us for not being able to take money from the second pillar before you retire. If we're defending the pillar, then some facts. How much did he put in there? How much did the citizens contribute during the period of existence? And how much of that money was collected before the clients actually retired? And we'll be surprised. The amount that he put in the state is no doubt more than 100 billion. Crowns. No doubt taller. But I'm not such a passionate defense attorney, it's similar to building savings. It's saving with a state contribution, which is why it's advantageous. Let's call it a real name. [[10.20 hours]] And it's clear that when it's convenient, citizens can calculate that the proceeds of building savings or pension insurance are higher than if they left the money in commercial entities, because interest rates are much lower there. Moreover, in the third pillar, pension fund revenues are relatively small because there are very strict rules for what pension companies can do with and where they can invest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u15	Yes. That was the last point in fact, and now we have two priority rights - President Kalousek and President Fiala will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. President Votava said that it was an extremely massive campaign. Yes, it was. It was an extremely massive and effective anti-campaign. During the whole time it was possible to sign up for the second pillar, social democracy, communists and trade union led a truly massive, effective anti-campaign, where under the text there was a frightening feeling: who would enter there would lose the money. The campaign went well, the hat went down again. And also because of that, and I will never stop blaming myself for the fact that if it was no longer possible to enforce a mandatory second pillar, I should have at least enforced an active dissent. Here was an active expression of consent, which means whoever wanted to enter the second pillar had to take some active administrative steps. If we turned around and the pillar were voluntary, but whoever wouldn't want to go there would have to take some active steps, I believe that the ratio would be significantly different and that you wouldn't dare cancel it today. Thanks to your massive campaign and thanks to our not possible complete consistency or thoughtfulness to simplify the input sufficiently and, on the contrary, slightly complicate the non-entry it turned out the way it did. There are really not many people in that pillar, which means technically and politically it is possible to cancel it. But what about instead of him? You always say, "And the third pillar." But the third pillar has nothing to do with the reform of compulsory insurance. When we talk about the reform of compulsory insurance, we talk about what we have to pay, not what we pay voluntarily. If I take what one of us pays the most, that means tax on dependent activity and dues, then each of us is obliged to pay - mandatory, whether he wants or not - 28 percent of the price of his work after the cancellation of the second pillar only to the first pillar, to the redistributive bag from which it is paid in my opinion in the least fair way almost throughout the world, because no matter how much someone has been paying there all his life, because 28 percent of the high salary is a lot, he will then take almost as much as the one who paid those 28 percent really little. The principle of equality prevails many times over its weight in the pillar over the principle of merit that a person who pays a lot should also take a lot. I don't think it's gonna end up with any pensions in the future. Some pensions will always be, but it will be a very small, let's say, poor and completely egalitarian dose due to the demographic curve. And it doesn't matter how much everyone pays there, everyone gets the same, because there's not gonna be any more money. The second pillar was the only known instrument for me to provide, and now let's talk about what ratio that some part of that 28 percent, which is a lot for large salaries and for small salaries is not enough, let's not redistribute it, but we'll save ourselves. I believe that in the future, the principle of solidarity, into the parentheses of equality, and the principle of merit cannot be played in a single pillar clearly and in a clear way. That's not gonna work. There it will just always be equal to the poor dose and the principle of injustice that someone there has paid really much all their life and will take little, almost as much as the one who paid very little all his life, that will prevail there. There can be no other way. In the second pillar, at least in part, the principle of justice could take place, that if I have to do a certain part, that part is all for me, and when I have paid a lot, I also have a lot left. You're interrupting this without giving it any replacement. You're jamming it systemically. And when we ask you what you say instead, the third pillar. But you're talking about something completely different. You're talking about money that I don't have to do anymore. The reform of compulsory pension insurance should also be able to consider the degree of merit in the compulsory contribution. Or say it openly and say: "We are convinced that we do not. We want such a pension system that no matter how much people pay for the system, they will all take the same. Because you're introducing it. And if anyone ever wants to take more, they have to pay above compulsory insurance. In other words, you basically say: If you want to get a little better in your old age, you have to pay a lot more contributions your whole life than you have to pay. That's not a system I consider fair. But if you could at least admit it. But when you talk about the third pillar, you look like it's the equivalent of the other. It's not. He's out of the mandatory insurance business. And that's what I don't believe you don't understand. You don't want to understand. You just don't want people to realize that you're prepping them a slum dose no matter how much they pay for the system. I was researching our 2012 discussion when we tried to introduce this first shy step in pension reform, and in addition to a number of remarkable statements made by my fellow Members who were sitting here today, I was fascinated by the fact that the opposition was able to hold a debate in the Chamber of Deputies for 55 hours. I don't know if you were obstructing at the time, or if you were really talking to the point. But you've been talking for 55 hours. I'm sorry, but I'm sure you understand that we can't be a less hardworking opposition than you would be. People wouldn't forgive us. So we're down to six, like 50 is still ahead of us. [[Embarrassment in the hall.]] That was a joke. Don't worry. [[With a smile.]] In this case, I'm not doing it. But if you ever blame us for delaying a point, you really have been able to talk 55 hours on this subject. You can count on me. I won't keep you that long. I only have one question for the Minister of Finance, and I would like his answer. When we had a debate on this in April, the Minister of Finance, and I said, there is no substitute, there is no alternative, the Minister spoke and said: I will present it by the end of June, you did nothing for 20 years, I will present it by the end of June. I took the liberty of expressing some doubts about this statement and, after these doubts, the Minister was slightly upset and said that it was all Kalousek who could only do harm and lie that when Babiš said something, he said no, and so he said that Babiš, he said that it was here by the end of June. I probably missed it because we have October and it's not here. And if it's here, I didn't see it. So please, Minister, what was it? Did I lie and do harm when I doubted that you would put some reform here by the end of June, or did you lie and harm when you promised something that you didn't always do? I think we deserve that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will continue the general debate. I'm recording three factual points here. First of all, Prime Minister Sobotka, after him Mr Votava, after him Minister Babiš. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u18	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I feel obliged to speak as a representative of the opposition at the time, which has been well mentioned here in the speeches of the previous speakers. I think it would be a really serious mistake to blame the failure of the second pillar only on the opposition's warning at the time, because they expected the opposition to cancel the second pillar, so they did not report to it. I think the problem with the second pillar is somewhere else. As his parameters were selected, the second pillar proved to be advantageous only for the highest income categories. And I ask, when Mr Kalousek here spoke of merit, I ask if you have thought about where the biggest problem of our pension system is. Indeed, it is not for those who have the highest income in our country because those who have the highest income - and I just point out that unlike other advanced states, we do not have a progressive tax system - they are able to invest in real estate, they are able to invest in financial instruments. They have huge other ways to make sure of old age. And here you have dimensioned the second pillar, which is parametrically consistent with the demand of the highest income categories. Don't be surprised that people who have a problem getting paid need primarily to feed their family, clothe their children, pay their rent, so that they haven't checked in. That's why only 80,000 people are there. And ask what kind of income category it is and what kind of people it is. The second pillar was badly designed. And the fact that the opposition said they would cancel it was just foresight, and it was the right attitude from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u19	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. And now Mr Votava's factual comment, then Mr Babiš, Vice Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond to my colleague Stanjura, through you, of course. My colleague, I can't answer you. I don't wear all the numbers in my head. Then I'd be the world director if I knew all this. Now, I mean, you were saying how many people left the early third pillar or how much money the state aid did. I can't do it. I can't do it out of my head. I'm sorry. But for example, a number of people must have stepped out of that pillar prematurely to secure their own housing, and that is also old-age security - to have their own housing. But I can't really do numbers. A colleague of Kalousek. I think the Prime Minister answered. That was no massive campaign on our part. Yes, that was a warning, an explanation both in parliament and outside parliament of course - and I think I made it clear that people are not stupid, that people can calculate for themselves how much it will bring them. And if it doesn't bring them anything, and they're at risk, if they ever meet with their resources in 30 years, then they'd be fools to save their lives! You'd save your money, wouldn't you, colleague? I'm sure I'm not, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a point of fact, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš, Mrs. Langšádlová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Yes, that's right. I've had some analysis done, and the fact is that we haven't solved the pension account here over the years - the various committees. And when I mentioned some ideas here, I was immediately attacked, even that I wanted to reduce pensions, which is, of course, nonsense, and then I was warned by the coalition partners that we didn't have it in the coalition agreement and that it wasn't my business, so of course I didn't bring it up, and I'm not going to bring it up, because the current... [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] I don't know what's urgent about that. Under the existing coalition, we will certainly not reach the same view as regards the resolution of pensions. The solution is very easy, as I actually said at the beginning, that we will either have money for pensions or we will not have it. So if we get a balanced budget sometimes, and the pension account or the balance goes down, now it's about 36 billion, then of course the question is whether there's ever gonna be any political collateral that's gonna be able to agree on some other way like today's third pillar, which is the most popular. So it's just an explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u23	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mrs Langšádlová and President Stanjura will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u24	One more time, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Votava here said that the Prime Minister responded, but I would like to stress that the Prime Minister did not answer! He absolutely did not answer the questions raised here! Of course, we know that your left-wing government may have a different view of the sustainability of the pension system and bring other alternatives to the solution, but please, give us another alternative to a sustainable pension system. That's the question!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u25	Thank you. I'll read the note before I give my word. From 11.15 today, for reasons of work to the end of the day, Mr David Kádner apologizes. Furthermore, President Stanjura will make a point of fact, and President Kalousek will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u26	Thank you for the floor. In the meantime, my colleague, the chairman of the ČSSD MP, told me the number. Too bad they won't tell each other at the club. 99 per cent of the resources from the third pillar are drawn before the retirement age is reached. Ninety-nine percent! So I am right when I say that it is savings with the support of the state, and that is why it is advantageous, and Mr Votava is wrong, who says that this is an excellent pension security. It's not! Ninety-nine percent ends elsewhere. It's like building savings when we call building savings and it's saving with the support of the state again. To Prime Minister Sobotka. He says we didn't ask, so I'll ask him. What is the average salary of the second pillar participant? And this can be calculated very simply by the state, because there are strictly given percentages that are going away. You know by the mike, it's the rich guys. So tell us what the average monthly income of the second pillar participant is. You certainly do, when you say that we have to take that opportunity from the rich, they don't deserve that opportunity, they have other options to save. And even if you were partly right and I don't rule it out, you don't change the parameters of the second pillar to make it even more attractive for other social, age, income groups, but we didn't learn any such analysis from your Potůčko committee, which was the Commission for the abolition of the second pillar - except that it should be cancelled. So try to get some facts, and maybe you're right. I don't have information unlike the Treasury, how much is the average payment of one client, and whether it's really the rich, or if there are others. I also wanted here in the debate at first reading to get the average age of the second pillar participant, whether these are the young, middle-aged or those who may be retired for a few years. None of this is here, there's no analysis, but most importantly, we have to end it because that's what we want!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u27	Thank you. Another point of fact, President Kalousek, will be prepared by Mr Fiedler, followed by Mr Jandák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u28	Thank you. I asked a question and thank the Minister for his reply. I was almost certain that he would say that for not fulfilling his promise and not giving us anything as he promised at the end of June that it was my fault. He said it was his coalition partner. That made me really happy, that's a relief. Of course, none of us can even think of his own incompetence, because if anyone thinks of it, we'll lock him up. If not today, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u29	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Fiedler and Mr Jandák will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. For our Dawn Assembly Club, I will say briefly what should be known. It was in our electoral programme as a point - we support this. We support the abolition of the second pension pillar. Here's our consensus on what's being presented, and it's obvious that we don't always have the same view of everything in opposition. That's normal. But why I wanted to get off, not to say this here, I'm just reminding you. However, there has also been a complaint that the current government coalition does not present an alternative, or does not present a way of dealing with this. And here I also turn to the coalition of the former, from the last House, and to the present one, and I hope that we will proceed to the solution. When we do, I am convinced that only coalitions cannot solve the pension system, but they have to deal with it across the entire political spectrum in the House, so that what we are witnessing now does not happen again in the next election, that one government coalition cancels this, what it has set up or proposed by another government coalition. This is what I call you all who are here when it comes to this, and I will not forgive the current government coalition, because we are witnessing that it deals with a number of things without hearing the opposition's views. I overheard it here too, I won't forgive myself for commenting that it's not the subject of a coalition agreement and that the Minister of Finance said here that it's not his business and that we're not going to deal with it. In relation to the pension system, my hair ends here got all sweaty when I heard that it wasn't business, and that's not what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u31	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Jandák, the President of the Fiala, will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I see, ladies and gentlemen, we're a little stuck. I'm not an optimist like my previous speaker. I am afraid that we will not move forward, and I would therefore like to advise Mirka Kalousek through the President. Mirk, we're not gonna be here forever, this coalition. There's a theoretical chance that it might be you in the future, so I'd ask you to promise the nation from this place that when you get to power, you'll reinstate the system. I think your preferences are gonna go up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u33	I thank you and now two priority rights. First President of the Fiala and then Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u34	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jandák said that we were a little stuck on the subject. I think we're gonna be stuck with him for a while, because the subject is extremely important. I think it is one of the negative symbols of this government's activity and that it will remain a negative symbol. Even if you guys don't think so right now. The abolition of the second pension pillar is exactly what symbolizes this government and what it represents. This is distrust of citizens, the absence of any vision and good solutions, as well as hypocrisy. Let me show you in a few examples that I can prove these claims. The government is abolishing measures that may be imperfect, which we have never claimed to be perfect, but which work. Mr Votava, who was the only member of the government coalition here with a contribution that had a little bit of content in it, did not convince me that the second pension pillar did not work. Of course, we can view it that way, and it's hypocrisy that we say: it doesn't work. We've done everything before to keep it from working so people wouldn't get in. Then we stopped the entrance to the second pillar here in the House, and then we say, the second pension pillar doesn't work. That's not true. It's not an argument. And even if the second pension pillar didn't work perfectly, the government would cancel it without offering anything to replace it in any way. The government just doesn't offer any solutions here. Second, the government takes responsibility for its own lives, for caring for their own pensions from citizens and transferring them to the state. A state that doesn't know what to do with it and who doesn't have enough money to do it. Thirdly, and I find it really hypocritical, the government criticizes past governments, criticizes a number of measures that past governments have taken, but only those that are suitable for it and others that have also criticized, so it just lets them be because they suit them. I'll talk more about it in a minute. Let me now make my three claims on how the second pension pillar, respectively. its interference characterizes this government in order to illustrate them on a number of specific examples. One. The introduction of the three-pillar pension system has been after many years, and I don't think it can deny the opposition and the current government coalition, a concrete step towards resolving the negative democratic trend that I hope I do not have to convince any of you. Those are the facts that lie on the table. The population is ageing and the ongoing pension pillar is unable to pay the pension. We have to pay it off from other revenues, but gradually we don't have enough money and it's gonna get worse. Just look at any population development forecasts. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for the words, but only a very, very unintelligent person can think we're gonna keep it that way. We're gonna let some third guy run next to the interim pillar, and it's just gonna work itself out. It won't. The second pension pillar was an attempt by the then government to address this. You're interrupting, okay, I understand, but I would expect you to present us with some version of yours, some solution. There's no solution here. Two. Despite the assurances from the opposition at the time, which were the Social Democrats, that the second pension pillar would immediately be abolished - and that must also be said, there was not just a massive campaign against the second pillar. It has also been promised from the outset that the second pension pillar will be abolished as soon as the opposition reaches the government. Even so, 80,000 people signed up for it. It's not that little. This cannot be downplayed and it cannot be said that this is a failure. The government is now telling these people: you wanted to take care of your own pensions, you were responsible, so you are unlucky. Your pensions will be decided by us again, because we know best what is good for you. We want to decide, we, the state, we just don't have the money. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no solution and no message to the responsible citizens as you want to deal with their penny. And thirdly, this is the best example of hypocrisy I'm talking about. There was another measure related to the pension reform. Remember what it is. This was an increase in value added tax. Yes, that had an immediate connection to the second pension pillar. At the time, the Ministry of Finance was expecting revenue cuts, and given the government's budgetary responsibility, it did not want to increase the deficit, so VAT went up. And the opposition, led by Bohuslav Sobotka, criticized not only the introduction of the second pension pillar, but also sharply criticised the increase in value added tax. Now the government is shutting down the second pillar, and the logical step I would expect is that it will try to return or return, even more so at a time of economic boom, it will return the level of value added tax to its original level. If you interrupt the critical measures, of course, all of them will be disturbed. But that's not good for the government. It is not appropriate for it in terms of its objectives, in terms of its intentions, because it likes to use the raised money from higher value added tax to increase the number of officials, increase the operating expenditure of ministries and other non-productive expenditures that are typical of this government. So here you see a typical example of hypocrisy. You're only interrupting what's convenient for some reason, but you're not interrupting what you've criticized in the past. So don't tell us how consistent and reasonable you are. [[10.50 hours]] I still can't forgive one comment, which is to some extent the correction of what I said. I have repeatedly reproached the government for not presenting any solution, that it does not have a proposal for any reform, a pension system, that it has no solution to the pension system at all. I'm gonna have to fix myself up a little bit. With one of the proposals of the so-called Potůčkův Commission, which is a sort of discussion club that is supposed to give a hallmark of expertise to socialist proposals, the Potůčkův Commission has come up with some such solutions. And the most important of all, but these are solutions that are not solutions, the most important of which we can remember from this draft by the Potůčkův Commission, is the increase in social insurance contributions to most citizens, which is what Potůčkův's Commission's rhetoric calls pro-family policy. The main idea that this government commission is coming up with is that people who do not raise children will rise one percentage point in social security contributions and parents with two or more children will fall in contrast to today's state. If you haven't had a chance to get to know the logic of this proposal in more detail, please think with me for a moment. The problem is that the proposal only applies to parents who raise careless children, that is, during their schooling. As soon as the child stands on his own feet, according to the proposal, the bills will rise again as childless. So when we do the math, we've been working for 40 to 45 years each, taking care of the careless child for 18 to 25 years, so in other words half of productive life you'll pay less and the other half of productive life you'll pay more. Of course, I'm not talking about people who, for some reason, maybe for health reasons, can't even have children. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that this system, which is the only solution here - even some, even if completely wrong - suggests that Potůčkův's commission is some new, original solution, you are very wrong. Such a proposal has already been made, and it has even been put into practice. A similar system was introduced by the Italian dictator Mussolini in the 1920s. And Mussolini wanted then, these are historical facts, to be in a country where there will be 60 million inhabitants, so he presented a series of measures to increase birth rates and which was based on penalization of those who do not have children and, on the contrary, should somehow support families. And do you know what the result of this Mussolini effort was? The birth rate has fallen from 29 children to a thousand inhabitants to 23.5 children per thousand inhabitants, and no effect of pro-family policy or increase in birth rate has occurred. And if you look at the analysis of why that was the case, the conclusion is logical and it should also be a warning to the current government, virtually. The Potůčkův committee. Of course, when you penalize the childless, you penalize those who want to create the conditions for starting a family. Childless penalization has the effect of taking their money when they're about to start a family. This is not a pro-family policy, it is historically proven stupidity, which is not a solution. On this example, I wanted to show you that maybe the government is thinking about some changes within some discussion club, which is Potůčkův's commission, but it's going the wrong way, and most importantly, it's not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u35	I apologize, Mr President, for entering into your speech, but I will ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down so that you can hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u36	Above all, these are not things that would be applicable in practice and which would really solve the problems that we have with the pension system, with the ongoing pillar and with the future development of population ageing in the Czech Republic. So, ladies and gentlemen, in simple terms, you will probably cancel the pension pillar, with the majority you have here, I will not question it, but there will be one question in the air - you will remain in debt to the public to answer one basic question. You'll cancel the second pillar, okay. But what are you gonna do about the pensions after that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u37	Thank you. Mr Ivan Pilný is now reporting with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, personally at my age, do not seem to concern me with this debate, but it certainly concerns me as a Member. It is clear from these contributions that the consensus of all political parties is needed in order to make a rational and, above all, permanent change in the pension system. It is therefore unnecessary to somewhat demagogically attack the Minister of Finance that in the current composition The House of Deputies seems to be unattainable. On the other hand, I must respond to the Prime Minister's contribution, which made it clear to me that if we do not do something, the company will be divided into two parts. One of them resigns from retirement and takes care of himself, the other one takes beggars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u39	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u40	I would like to respond to the words of my previous speaker. So I, when the Minister of Finance spoke about bringing in a reform proposal in two months, I was skeptical. It wasn't an attack. I was skeptical, and I said on the microphone that, in my opinion, that's not possible. And you can say skeptically that we won't make a deal. We blame the government for not even trying to find a solution with us. I didn't. Okay. We take it as the fact that you cancel the second pillar. Note that those strong statements that fall from the mouth of the prime minister or the chairman of the budget committee when I ask the numbers do not run to the microphone to tell me how many rich or medium-income or low-income are in the second pillar. Ninety-nine percent of the money from the third pillar ends elsewhere. President Votava has tabled interesting and stimulating amendments to the third pillar. For my taste there is quite a few reasons that the amendment itself has twelve parties. I want to say that most of them will have our support, but we are improving, we are improving savings with state support in those amendments. Why not? For example, it says that we will increase the amount that an employer can contribute. Why are the employers doing this? Well, since it doesn't pay for social and health, let's just say it out loud. The high cost of work, so the wages increase in this indirect way that the employer can make 30 thousand. Every year and next time it'll be 50 grand. every year, and that's good. But it doesn't solve the pension system at all, only the attractive savings with state support. Those clients - I belong to them - the third pillar, who pay exactly enough to have maximum State aid and at the same time make maximum use of tax relief, will adjust it after changing the parameters and will receive maximum State aid and maximum tax deduction. That's perfectly logical. But with the pension system, the money ends somewhere else, it doesn't do anything. Then I'll sign up with priority rights and ask about VAT, because the government coalition is also very silent about that, even though the two steps were related.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u41	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I dare to respond to some of the things that have been said here. I would understand if the opposition were to be damned that we were abolishing functional reform. But she wasn't very functional. I would just like to remind you how many members and senators of the government coalition signed up for the second pillar at the time when this instrument was introduced. The results were very rusty. It was about 30 people. I don't remember it in my head. I'll look into it. It was very little for the coalition to have 120 votes and a large number of senators. It was the absolute minimum. That means even their own coalition legislators didn't believe the second pillar. As for the fact that few people have applied, it can, of course, be influenced by the opposition saying that they will cancel it, but can I still ask what hard data you have, how did this campaign affect how massive anti-campaign was? Do you consider it anti-campaign that someone will say something in the House or at a press conference? [[11.00 hours]] That's just completely speculative, and I think if you want hard data, give us some research on how it affected people. I don't think so. The fact that the third pillar has its advantages and disadvantages is obvious. I believe that a completely rational consideration is to talk really about the new pension reform. So-called potůčkův's commission, or whatever you called it here, well, we could say that Bezděkův's commission was some sort of discussion club that was basically useless and based on it it was a second pillar. I think that we should not reduce the effort to debate some things on a professional level and, in a way, to reduce and insult people who are trying to move these things forward. What is very important, I think that we should actually have a debate across the political spectrum. I understand the opposition that Potůčkův's commission doesn't want to attend much, and it doesn't want to pay attention to it because it's an opposition party, I understand. On the other hand, I think that it would be worth talking about, for example, how and to what extent, and how, not only pension insurance should continue, but also building savings, and whether these two products do not reconcile, for example, add money to it, so that this money can also be used for education, and try to rationalise this money with a government contribution in this way. The whole problem is that our system is based on labour and VAT taxation. Those are the basic amounts and revenues to our system. That means we call the poorest, including the children and those who don't go to work, so we tax you VAT, we take this money and we give it to the medium- and high-income ones to give them a government contribution, because the poorest just don't have it, if they have two kids, we give it to them four, they just don't find the two thousand. And I think it's rational to talk about it, if by doing that, we're going to tax the poorest, and then we're going to give it back to the richer, if that's the right thing to do. But this is essentially about the second pillar, because the second pillar was basically based on the fact that part of the contributions you had did not go into the ongoing solidarity pillar, but that they actually came out of this pillar, did not emerge from the pension system, it was very often referred to as a lie. I don't recall any of the opposition's saying that he's acting out of his pension system, but he's acting out of his ongoing solidarity system. And there was a percentage going out, and they were adding their own money. And that's the principle that's very similar to the fact that the money was actually missing in the solidarity system, and they were actually getting back into it with the tax on the workers. I think, and I would like to thank Mr Kalousek, the President, for saying that pensions will be, because unfortunately, we have often heard in the campaign when the second pillar was introduced that there will be no more pensions. So I'm glad that the important opposition representative of the current and then coalition is already using the term "outbreaks will" correctly and maybe smaller, they'll probably be in different sessions than today. I believe that this experiment, the second pillar that the government made, and I think it was right that it tried to make pension reform, it just didn't go well, it was an experiment that didn't work even in the time of the government coalition, and that's why it's canceled. It just doesn't work, and then the money that we're taking out of the interim system is missing. What is important, however, is to realize that the pension pillar itself, the first and solidarity pillar, is not only paid for pensions. If we only pay pensions from it, it's surplus. But we're paying maternity leave, we're paying disability pensions, we're paying orphans and more. If I'm not mistaken, there are a number of items, which are social benefits. [[Dissenting votes from the right side of the courtroom.]] Well, I'm sure you're paying for things that aren't for pensions. At least disability pensions are paid and beyond. That doesn't mean it's not just the payout of old-age pensions, but there are disability pensions and more. This means from this point of view, if only what it is playing at from the pension pillar, namely pensions as such and not disability pensions, for example, then it was a little different. [[Dissenting voices, noise from the right side of the courtroom.]] So the hypocrisy that Chairman Fiala was talking about here is obviously on the ODS side, because there were a lot of problems because there was a surplus pension account, it didn't separate from the state budget, the surpluses melted, and now we're missing. Then there was a reduction in the contributions in the past, which is also one of the reasons why the money is now missing. And it is very important to realise that a very substantial component of these income is simply, whether we want it or not, labour taxation. So I'm sure it's worth talking about in that sense. As far as VAT is concerned, I'll answer it. Yes, you increased your VAT to actually replace the blackout that was a transfer from the ongoing pillar to the second pillar. I don't understand it very much when it could have been done directly, so at least that was the reason that VAT was increasing to recover the blackouts that are in the first pillar. But on the other hand, it must be realised that we have also reduced VAT, we have also reduced enough taxes, not completely, but something has decreased. But the state budget blackout is undoubtedly here. And I'm going back to VAT. The problem is that DPH is taxed again not by those who do not go to work because they do not want to, but also by children - for eating, for going to diapers, so VAT will also tax them. And that's the problem. So I don't think Bezděkův's committee is a discussion club, like I don't think it's about Potůčkův's commission, and I think it's very insulting. As for the comparison with Mussolini and the fact that people who raise children should have discounts... [[Dissenting voices and screams from the right side of the courtroom.]] It was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u43	I will ask you, Members, not to shout at each other, and let the one who speaks, reason and discuss on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u44	You said that Mussolini did something similar, which is a comparison to Mussolini for me, I'm not a semantic, but I understand that, and I think it's unfair, because it's something else to bribe, it's something else to punish, and it's something else to say, if I'm raising kids, I have some objective costs, so while I'm raising them, I should have less costs, because the money I have, so I'm investing in those kids. If I don't have them, well, I don't have those costs, and I can save more. Of course, it is also a gateway for those who cannot have children, it is also for those who do not want children, but in this case they do not have the costs. If I don't have the costs, I'll save more myself if I have the costs, so they're taken into account. I don't think there's anything unusual about it, on the contrary, I think it's a conservative approach. And the fact that young families are going to pay dizzy sums, you do the math of how much it is. These are not so dizzying sums, and I think that the fact that young people don't start families as soon as they should be is definitely not going to be this. These are completely different reasons that lead them to do so. Personally, I think that we could help raise families by restoring newlywed loans. I think that would make a lot more sense, and that would help us, rather than paying for a little bit more social security. As far as I'm concerned, I'm certainly never going to encourage us to bribe someone for having children. What makes sense, considering who raises children, raises them properly, that is, during the course of taking care of those children, let him have lower insurance. Leave more money in his pocket. I think he's rational. On the other hand, what was said here, President Babiš said that the Ministry of Finance would actually come up with a proposal. I was a little surprised because we didn't hear it before. I would welcome it if he could come up with this proposal, perhaps not as Minister of Finance, but as Chairman of the Coalition Party, so that we can discuss this proposal, and if the proposal is prepared or prepared by the YES movement, I will be very happy to welcome it. At the same time, I would like to reject what has been said here that we have not tried to discuss. All the representatives of the parties represented in the House are invited to the Potůčkův Commission, so I see no reason for this claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. I'm recording three factual points. First, Mrs Adamová, then, President Stanjura, after him, Mr Kučera. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u46	Good morning. You, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, have shown quite your incompetence in your contribution here in this area. So I would like to point out to you that some of the facts you're giving here are completely wrong. Like how much of that retirement account is paying. It's definitely not maternal, et cetera. So maybe you could study the situation, or maybe you could study the current situation better. As for the comparison between Potůčkův's commission and Bezděkův's commission, Potůčkův's for about a year and a half that works, it really brought only cosmetic modifications to the system, not some fundamental solution that would be sustainable in the long run. The changes proposed mainly concern the third pillar and relate mainly to voluntary savings, which, if these people do not sign up for it, they still have no chance of affecting their retirement in the future, of course. So it is clear from the very nature of this matter that it is not a solution that would be for the entire society. And just a sneaky remark that Mr. Babiš didn't make his proposal because it's not his business. Maybe if you got yourself a pension fund, Mr. Secretary, you'd be more interested in it by now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u47	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura. After that, Mr Hájek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u48	I believe that I have a good relationship with Mr. Vice Prime Minister personally, but that is very difficult to respond to because there were so many mistakes - how can you say that the pension system pays for maternity or sick leave? [[Response to a note.]] Not even a mother. That's just not true. Those are basic facts. I don't ask anybody to drop numbers, and not even if it's not from his resort. But these are system approaches. Small educational window - first, second, third pillar. The second pillar kept all the money for pensions. We can say, I don't want to discuss whether there might have been other parameters. But the second pillar of the pension system itself did not raise a crown, unlike the third pillar, where today we verified the common view with the government coalition that one percent of the third pillar remains for the pension. One percent! And no one's talking about freaking out, nor are we, because it's another tool. I'm saying it's savings with state support, nothing more, nothing less. But I would like to appreciate, for example, Mr Votava's proposal, which also deals with the Civil Code and the treatment of funds that parents save for underage children. I just want to remind you that we have a similar proposal for building savings, and I believe that together we will support both of them, because the principle is exactly the same so that the management of the money does not have to be decided by the custody court. I think it's good. But I can't. I just don't know how many Members and Senators have made a contract in the second pillar. I don't even know because I don't have access to the data. And we never said it was for everyone. And when there is an opportunity to say "but your 52 Members, only 36 of them volunteered, so you can see how wrong it is" - what the argument is! I'd like to know from the Prime Minister where he got the numbers and where I can verify them. I said on the microphone that I personally am a client of the second and third pillars, both since the opportunity was granted to me as a citizen, since 2000 or 2013. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] But where do these numbers come from? Thirty! How we figured it out!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u49	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Hájek, prepared by Mr Zavadil with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u50	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I haven't lost my life in two years, at least I think it's a normal way of looking at life. As for the second pillar, I can think of two such proverbs. One thing I have to modify so that Mr President doesn't have to leave is that you can't knit a whip out of a turd. And the other is a better sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the roof. And why 80,000 people? Eighty thousand people went for it because they're really earning so much that they can just put them on the third pillar, where they're pretty sure they're gonna get the money back. That's the sparrow in the hand. You promised the pigeon on the roof, that means no insurance fund. Not an insurance fund! That means, I'll save the money, the citizen will be saving at a time when there were leather cases, where there were H-System cases, dozens of tunnel funds. And I'm supposed to believe that suddenly there's a new right here that's going to say, "Friends, we've learned our lesson in 24 years, and now trust us, there's something new." That's why there were only 80,000 people, which is why there were only 30 Members and Senators. That's why people prefer the third pillar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u51	Thank you. Mr Zavadil now, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u52	Hello, hello. Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, a few numbers to say things here as they really are. As far as pensions and pension payments are concerned, only these things are paid out of this scheme - of course pensions, disability pensions, orphan pensions and widow's pensions. That's all. This amount, respectively, divided into widows, disabled and orphans, amounts to about 20 percent of the total volume. That's the first point. Second point. One more number that would be good to know that 100,000 unemployed, and that can be verified, the numbers I have absolutely correct, makes about 26 billion, about 26.9 billion. So if we reduce unemployment by 100,000, obviously the pension account deficit will fall by this $26.9 billion. That's the second point. Third point. In order to avoid creating unnecessary euphoria about the second pillar, I think I'm entitled to say a lot of things here because I was in the early days and I had a lot of debates about the second pillar. I think the second pillar ended mainly for one thing - that she couldn't enforce the obligation of the pension savings. And the savings, or the obligation, couldn't get through because there was a great deal of resistance. I remember when people were sort of asking about the servers, or we wanted to know the people's answers, whether they were willing to be obliged or not - somebody here said that actually - I think my colleague Hájek said - those citizens weren't really prepared to enter and pay for it financially. That's a different debate. But that was the main reason why only 80,000 people accumulated in this pillar, in quotation marks. And as far as B is concerned, that's what I'm gonna get to when I'm at the eight, where I have seven amendments related to what I said. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u53	Thank you. Now, with Mr Fiedler's point of view. Mr Stanjura will be ready. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u54	Thank you for the floor. Me and in fact this time only very briefly. It has been said here by me and by other Members that when a reasonable consensus proposal is finally being prepared, or broad, it should be consensus across all the political parties involved in the House. I think Vice-President Bělobrádek was talking about it. But that's why I came to respond, that I was interested in his message that he heard something here, that he was planning the Ministry of Finance, or Minister Babiš, and that he heard it all the way here. Well, that kind of freaked me out a little bit, because even in the government coalition, communication and the mutual awareness, I'm really worried about what it's gonna look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u55	Thank you. Now, President Stanjura, Mr Laudát will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u56	Mr Hájek, again, says 30 Members. How did you get that number? A member of the Chamber of Deputies said it, and when I asked where he got the number, I didn't get the answer yet. Then let's not work with it as a fact. It's not important at all. It's really not important. However, the system in the second pillar was based on a percentage and not even wages. Well, I don't know if everyone here is saying that someone couldn't put off two percent of their retirement savings, which is 21.5%. And if anyone has a low wage, that 2 percent of 21 isn't that much. Let's really use numbers and facts. If the government coalition had come up with a proposal for a mandatory second pillar, we would certainly have a serious debate. But in a moment, and let's say openly, it's a solution, it's a model that could be used, but then it has the character of a tax. That's what we have to say. Then it's no longer a second pillar, some savings, but it has the character of a tax, it's in another paycheck box, but everyone's gonna do it, it's just gonna go through the accounts, it's not there - we wanted to motivate these people. [[11.20 hours]] And if I go back to the Vice-President of the Government, Bělobrádek. We're mainly criticizing the fact that you're coming with the abolition of the second pillar, we're criticizing that instead of the second pillar, you're not bringing anything. And if we say that Potůčkův's commission was a discussion club, it doesn't strike me as offensive. If so, someone, I'm sorry. [[unintelligible]] I don't see anything wrong at the discussion club, I really don't, I don't think it's offensive. All I'm saying is that the only way we could have said what we were thinking. No one argued against, the assignment was clear. But we respect that, we don't complain. We used to go there disciplinedly. And indeed, if the discussions were offensive, I apologize, but it was not a serious political act, it was not a serious attempt by the political parties in the House to try to find a solution. And it's a very complicated solution to find. And if this government doesn't succeed, I won't blame her, because we didn't. [[Attention on time.]] But this government hasn't tried, and that's what we blame it for. That's a big difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u57	Thank you. Now, Mr Laudát and then Mr Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u58	Thank you. If I'm listening to it here, especially Mr. Vice Prime Minister, those who know something about the pension system, you can see what kind of lunatics are running this country right now. People don't know about this. And I would say to my colleague Hájek through Mr President: You obviously have not read the existing legislation around the pension system, because then you would not be able to say what you are saying here. And you know, if you tolerate the third pillar and say and blame the second pillar for not being insured or anything, then read the laws, compare how hard the conditions are, what the second and third pillars are, and then come here to interpret something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u59	Thank you. Now, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek and Mrs Šánová will prepare herself. Before you start, I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to keep it down again. If you have something important you need to say, go to the lobby, let them understand what they say. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm not aware that I said that health insurance from retirement is being paid. If that's the case, it was a slip of the tongue. And if there's anything else I said, I'm sorry about that, I'm not really an expert on 100% taken. Finally, what am I supposed to do when there's no Minister of Labour and Social Affairs here? At least I'm trying to argue with the opposition. [[A round of applause for some Members from the right side of the hall.]] As far as the data is concerned, at least the facts I've seen, in case old-age pensions are actually paid, the pension system is in surplus. At least I have those numbers. As to the question of where I found out how many people from the coalition entered, we had a questionnaire sent to all members of the government coalition, to all legislators. And based on how they answered us and how they answered us. I'm trying to track it down, I can't, but then, Prime Minister, I'll give it to you. I can't find it in an e-mail, the way I'm gonna track it, so I'm gonna hand it over to you. By the way, it was our worker Mr. Čižinský who won over 50 percent of the Prague 7 election and is the mayor there. So we're definitely gonna find out. As far as the search for government and consensus is concerned, my colleague here is appalled as we can agree in the government. I'm appalled at the Dawn. I think your half-life is much bigger than our government, so I think you should start with yourself, colleague. And I have to admit, and I take it if the chairman of the ODS Club says it wasn't meant to be offensive, I'll take it. It seemed to me that the effort to actually discuss this fundamental matter was being reduced. However, what Mr Laudát has shown and said that madmen are leading this country, first of all, I think it is a very disparaging label for psychotics. I think that - well, I can log in - do you have any other ones there that I would sign up with priority rights? [[President: I'm sorry, Mr Vice Prime Minister, your time for a factual remark is up.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u61	Mr. Stanjura is there, so after him. So two more minutes with your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u62	I consider it inadequate to attack the government's leadership that it is run by madmen - Mr. Laudát, when I came here, I was only here for a short, less than two years, so I was told that Laudát is a diagnosis. Now I get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u63	Thank you. Now I'll read the note. Today, due to illness, Mr Radek Vondráček apologizes. Mr Stanjura, after whom Mr Laudát, is now with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u64	So to contribute, no matter how serious we always look, Mr. Vice Prime Minister answered me with the typical churchillian, as I like it: I only believe in the statistics I forged myself. If it was a poll of your party, I certainly didn't answer. Well, at least you're missing one responder, 'cause I don't really answer those polls. But why not? Even if it's true. Let's work with the fact that the number is good. 281 members of the legislature, the House, of which 30 have signed up, that is more than 10 percent. Undoubtedly, there are many members and members of our fellow Members in the Senate who are already retired. They won't sign up for any pillar. Logically. A lot of them were getting closer to retirement, they wouldn't logically sign up, either, because there's definitely a minimum period of time. And we never said that when you retired for a year, you had to start a second pillar, that it was advantageous. But even if I said that they were all working age and that they were young, senators can't be under 40, all senators are 40, and 10 percent. So take what if there were the same percentage among the populations, how many participants, how many participants in the second pillar. But we're not really discussing that. We never said it was flawless. Even the small number of participants is because we didn't think of any errors or parameters to make them more attractive than we thought. And that's always gonna show up until the practice. But you closed the pillar, and now you're disturbing it. And our reservation, you didn't answer that. What do you bring instead? It's not the parametric changes to the third pillar that I'm saying completely on the microphone that most of them, and maybe all of them, because some of them we're going to be consulting on, we're going to support. [[unintelligible]] But the pension system doesn't bring anything to the third pillar! One percent! And by the way, the annual state contribution to the third pillar is equal or higher than what you want to get out of 100 thousand businessmen thanks to EET. Compare the numbers and compare the effect and the effort you want connected to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u65	Thank you. Now, Mr Kučera, Mrs Šánová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u66	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice Prime Minister, I can say that I have respected you until recently as a prudent policy. However, by the speech you gave here today, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, you have shown a bunch of incompetence and fabulation, you have indeed shown that my colleague Laudát was right in many ways. And if this government were to play the Weakest game, you're fired!, you'd be one of the hottest candidates, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u67	Thank you. Mrs Šánová, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to go back a little bit in the past to realise that perhaps this debate today would not be so important if, in 1994, I don't know, we didn't reconcile the social account with the state budget. At the time, there were 300 billion in this account. The crown! 300 billion. Today we have about minus 40 billion. We know who let him into the state budget, and we know what it was used for. If anyone doesn't know, it was our right and these 300 billion. was used to bail out banks. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] [[11.30 hours]] And then I'd like to say that if we have problems and we have a lack of money in the social account, we could cancel the ceiling. If anybody in this House doesn't know what it's like to be put down, it's that the rich don't. They're taking up to a certain amount, and I suspect that there's a million two hundred, a million three hundred a year, and then they don't. And, you know, if we take 10,000 for a humble citizen and a levy, let's say, these are examples, a thousand five hundred, it's probably the same thing as the one who has a hundred thousand, he'll do a hundred fifty. Or 15 grand, sorry. So if that's what I'd suggest we cancel the stunt. Insurance is understood as a solidarity system, and if we call it insurance, then the richer must contribute to the poor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u69	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, followed by Mr. Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, yes, it was a poll, it doesn't have to be consistent. The fact that some didn't answer her is true, I had the numbers, so I admit, you don't argue with mine, I take it back. Yes. As far as Mr Kučera is concerned, by your means, well done. I've been trying to discuss it, and instead you insult me. This is really delicious! You guys did a great job! Insults are your arguments. While I can discuss with the ODS and we can argue in some way, I made a mistake, yes, I showed incompetence in that the only thing I said wrong, one time I slipped and I misjudged the mother, so that was it. As far as VAT is concerned, etc., I think it was competent. So it's obvious, but I think I'm gonna let a member of parliament here insult the members of the government into crazy people, I'm sorry, I couldn't leave that without a comment. Plus, what I was saying was true, and I was brought to the attention soon after I was elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u71	Thank you. Furthermore, there are two factual points. First of all, Mr Laudát and then Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u72	Thank you for the floor. I don't think anyone who knows the pension system or at least touched it in any way in life can take what I said to Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Of course, if he doesn't have arguments, he'll take offense, which in his case... It's a big disappointment to me, but he's learning from Mr. Babiš very quickly. It's just reality. I'm not gonna insult him, and I'm not gonna touch him. Well, I'd show you what kind of insults I could take to you, but I'm not gonna do it because you're not worth it. But what I'm saying is, it wasn't just about what is and isn't paid out of the pension system. You weren't telling the truth here, or you don't know what it was supposed to work on, and how the money that was collected from the raised one was going to work, or should have collected from the increased VAT, what the cost of introducing the second pillar was when it was counted for some penny of people who would have entered it. You were wrong about that, too. It wasn't a reckless thing to do in two or three. You just weren't right. If you knew or knew the demographic projections, what kind of money, I'd throw myself in the process of shutting down some system that's being implemented in standard democracies without knowing the solution, I think it's crazy. Just as when the Prime Minister, who has done a number of economic lapps from the Ministry of Finance, comes out here and says that this is the perfect step. Who knows these numbers, demographic developments, what the risks of the economy are, can only act responsibly. And so far, you're interrupting something without knowing anything. I've got one more gig, so here I'm gonna remind you of some history of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš's knowledge of the second pension system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u73	Thank you. President Stanjura, Mr Gabal will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u74	To Mrs. Šánová. That was an opinion I could respect, but I totally disagree with. And then you're surprised we're saying you're the left-wing government. They applauded you, too. Logically, because that's their world view that we have to take away the rich even more. And more. And when the money's missing, it's even more. You were de facto proposing an increase in social contributions. Nothing else. And that's not the answer. It said here: if money is missing, let's look at the rich. That is an opinion that we have long disagreed with. I know that such opinions are not few who think otherwise, and we do not really agree with that in the long run. I'm saying it's not a solution. There's no solution. In addition, the ceilings for both health, social contributions, etc. are common in Western Europe. And they pay with a percentage. So if someone pays out of a thousand-pound hundred-fifty, ten thousand doesn't pay out a thousand five hundred, we all know how to count here. So it's really not a solution to the system. But after all, I learned something new, I was quite surprised. Václav Klaus is responsible for today's debate in the House. I don't know where else we're going in these debates when you're looking for reasons why you didn't bring anything, you didn't come up with anything, you're just interrupting. About what happened in personal attacks. I'm on Mr. Vice Prime Minister's side. One. On the other hand, I'd like to ask, and now, by any chance, he's a party colleague to intervene in the management meetings immediately, immediately and without exceptions, because the word "crazy" doesn't belong here, but it doesn't include words like "everything you've stolen and you've stolen billions" either. So be strict from the control desk, so we don't have to run and resist these personal attacks. I think it will have the support of the vast majority of members and members of the Chamber of Deputies, and let us try to avoid that. I understand that sometimes it can't be done - Well, I'm criticizing you, so it's obvious you're keeping an eye on time, but I fully respect that. [[Your time, Mr President.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u75	You called for me to measure everyone the same way, so I'm trying to do it, and believe that the discussion about who stole it has been going on for a long time, and I don't see why I need to intervene in this particular case, because it's a subject that is constantly shaking in this House, and I don't think it's a dirty word. Of course, in the case of vulgarity, what we have agreed is that if the one speaking vulgarity, we interrupt the meeting until the one speaking does not modify his vocabulary. That, of course, is a line we will honor and respect. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u76	Hello. Mr President, Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, and colleagues, for the third time we are discussing this, for the third time I am kind of forced by the atmosphere to do so, for the third time I repeat that I am not excited that we are doing this step and we are shutting down the system, but I also want to reiterate that those who founded it simply failed to secure consensus for the long-term issue, did not find out and verified the real interest of the public in the whole system and essentially did not attempt to overcome the endemic distrust of the fund system of managing any means in this country, which, of course, emerged from privatisation. This was not carried out by an appropriate demographic balance sheet, policy or strategy. This, of course, leads to a situation where not only does failure appear to the proposal, but a lack of consensus to do anything about it and bring in any concept that would have a chance of adoption. I would very much argue that we should not harm the persistent tendency of Czech households to save. We have the ability, it is one of the pillars of the stability of this country's economy and financial system, so let us treat it very carefully. If we were able to regenerate the confidence of Czech households in capital savings, we would take a big step towards assumptions to finally move towards a more modern pension system. And I don't want to put aside demographic behavior, because if we don't do it by analysis, design and balance sheet on this country's demographic dynamics, then we'll always end up halfway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. I'll read the two note cards that arrived. Today he apologizes for the whole day because of Mrs Jana Černochová's illness and from 12 o'clock he apologizes for work reasons Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel. It is also registered with a factual remark by Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u78	Mr President, colleagues, I can be incompetent, I can be stupid, but that does not mean that someone must call me crazy. If it was said that what the government is doing is insane, I understand. But not that this country is run by crazy people. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u79	Thank you. I do not see any factual point and we will proceed to those who are duly enrolled in the debate. The first is Mr Kučera, Mr Laudát will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u80	Thank you for your word. Just a short line for the Prime Minister. [[vice-premiere]] Who does crazy things? But in any case, I admit that some words do not belong here, and the debate is then unnecessarily heated. I agree with that, too. Ladies and gentlemen, when I was preparing for today's meeting, I was going through some studies, going through some data to find arguments, qualified arguments to convince at least a part of the Members not to disturb the second pension pillar. In the search for documents and materials, I came across a newspaper article that seemed very interesting to me by actually excellently describing and summing up all the arguments why not disturb -
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u81	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I'll enter your speech. Once again, I'm going to ask my colleagues to keep it down. And in case you want to discuss, go to the lobby and do not disturb! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u82	I have stumbled upon a newspaper article of older data thus, about 2.5 years old, which perfectly describes why not cancel the second pension pillar. And I'll take the liberty of quoting it here. I think that this might be particularly interesting for members of the ANO movement. So I quote: "Political representation has been playing with the future of our country's inhabitants for 20 years. Eternal experiments with so-called. pension reforms are merely proof that our elected representatives are not responsible for the quality of life of citizens. The pension system and the ageing of the population are one of the key problems of the future, actually already present. We already pay one of the largest social contributions in the world today, but there are tens of billions missing from the pension account every year... We want to support the continuation of the ongoing pension system, the objective of which will be a balanced balance on the revenue and expenditure side. It is clear to us that this goal will only be achieved with an ever-increasing deficit if we involve active citizens in the system who have the opportunity to voluntarily save for their future." - I'm sure Minister Babiš would agree with me if he were here. "We agree with the principle of the second pillar, but we do not want to bother anyone by having to report to it somewhere. On the contrary, we propose that participation in the second pillar be automatic after taking up work. This will ensure his robustness. Man will be able to leave this pillar at any time, so in our submission the second pillar will not be mandatory. Social democracy is about to do what it has already written about in the beginning. Once again, he will mess with the trust of the people who joined the second pension pillar, and by abolishing it here because of a few political points, he will bring down the already hacked trust of the population in this system. Pension reform should be the result of a social debate between politicians and experts as well. Recipes exist. Just look in countries where being a senior doesn't mean living. The optional second pillar works e.g. in the United States of America, Great Britain, Denmark or the Netherlands. I believe that the seniors there are not living." I was quoting Mrs Radka Maxová from the YES movement. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] It's from her newspaper article on September 14, 2013. I must say that Prime Minister Sobotka, who consistently says why to cancel the pension pillar, is speaking in the same press. It's consistent, of course. I must say that I, like Mrs Maxová, will vote against the abolition of the pension pillar. And I believe that the other right-wing members of the ANO movement will join me and Mrs Maxová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u83	Thank you. Another duly applied for is Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The golden words Mrs. Maxová said, I'd sign them too. The problem is that specifically for the YES movement - you say very often likable things towards the public and do the exact opposite. I'm so sorry. There's no way I'd say that Mrs. Maxová is crazy. The opposite. I'd sign for it. Please act according to what you say to the public. I was very embarrassed. You remember there was a pre-election debate at the Prague Congress Centre, where Babiš said he would cancel the pension pillar - he ran a question. The next day -- someone probably told him what the second pension pillar was, so he didn't fundamentally cancel it. dneska, he's the promoter of the material that's disturbing him. I just want to say - and he was talking about it here, my colleague Gabal. It is a matter of citizens' trust. And you even undermined that trust. You may recall, about two or three months ago, data came out in economic journals, and quite unnoticed that the number of people who are in the third pillar was beginning to fall in voluntary terms. You're calling the shots. It is advantageous, very advantageous, even as a tool to save with the support of the state. And no one noticed -- and exactly when I've been analyzing why people are actually leaving, and I don't know if it's just the trend of the first half of this year, or if it's going to be a constant trend, you've broken citizens' confidence in any system through your behavior. If it was the Maďar who did it, the Polák did it, then, of course, it has a convention where they can even touch the third pillar. I don't know if it's legal, maybe it's a little more complicated than disturbing the second pension pillar, but people don't see it that way. And there was no rational reason for them to leave the third pillar. And I'm saying, I'm going to be interested in whether or not this is a sustained trend. I think Minister Marksová should answer that, but repeatedly, even in previous discussions, when we required her to be present, that she should say something about the debate, she is not here again. That's totally typical. So if it seems to you that this is how a responsible government is supposed to behave - so I'm going to soften that statement - I don't know, I would have used it to do what I used in the previous one. It's already been here, too, because it's been a long time, so if you're canceling, cancel everything that has to do with the introduction of the second pension pillar, i.e. Return VAT in full to the original rates, because it was meant to actually cover deficits and it was intended primarily for filling into the first continuous pillar, so that the funds would not be missing there. And if you're disturbing him today, put it back, because otherwise it's not fair to the citizens. [[11.50 hours]] As far as KDU talks about birth rate, experts from the world will tell you that the greatest birth rate is where there is no pension system or very weak to ensure old age. France has a very large social system, including huge support, and I feel that it is perhaps the largest in Europe, not to mention the world's birth rate. When we were there around migration and with the petition committee, the footnotes said that the system really works very successfully, except that there are simply increasing problems in other areas depending on who has children. This is a bit on the edge to mention this, but you can read in various statistics what the most common name is in France. But in view of the fact that it would fundamentally change the atmosphere and behaviour of the majority society, in order to be somehow sustainable, it is not. I really consider it very scary, because as the numbers were from different companies, and I don't know how many dozens of analyses have been processed, the problem is one. I dare even estimate that, apart from cosmetic treatments, you will not be able to come up with any proposal for a sustainable system by the end of the term. As a result, only the standard experiment that is in the world will be canceled, which means that you will return our citizens to a point zero in such a crucial matter. The problem is you're not offering the future. I once heard from a Social Democrat because it was shortly before the 2008 crisis started, there is no problem now, and if there were analyses and forecasts in 15 years, the problem will become somewhat significant, so there will be other politicians here, let them deal with it in some way. The economic crisis came, and six months later, what he said broke out, and suddenly the pension system was in deficit for the first time since 1990, and apparently in long-term history before 1990, and today the deficit exists. I would like to inform you that when cyclical growth ends and there is a crisis, the number of unemployed people will increase, so the deficit will grow to huge size again within a few months. And you have to cover it with some public funding, that's just the principle of an ongoing system. I must say that only the KSČM is consistent in this direction in the past, which from the beginning rejected the principle of multi-fund pension funding, was not so for Social Democrats and it is easy to find that there was some consensus leaving Bezděkův's commission with the fact that there will be discussion only about the partial parametric setting of the second pillar. Suddenly there was a reversal of opinion, and then there was no more taste on the part of the Social Democrats to agree on anything. It just turned 180, and that's it. When Mr Pilný here calls for a consensual solution, the first point is that you must have some outline of the project you are arguing about ahead of you and, secondly, not the television abbreviations of Mr Potůček, and thirdly, I do not know what to argue about when there is no certainty that the partner will not make an opinion return. I know there were many attempts to reach an agreement in the Topolánek government era. The result was, although it was in particular the pressure of trade unionists that the second pillar would not be mandatory. Then it was argued by Slovakia, where the setting from the perspective of the Czech road was very hard, mandatory and 10 per cent, not 2 per cent exiting from the ongoing system or flipping into the second pillar system, so when someone today says it doesn't work, so if you took the confidence of the 85,000 citizens who were in the second pillar, if you didn't tell the anticampa that you would cancel it, and in the country where the left and right are about 50-50, then of course, if any product in this way is questioned, it is very effective to expect people not to believe that product. To conclude, I really consider it responsible that two steps should have been taken. Okay, you think the second pillar can't work, that it's wrong, bring a financing alternative. You haven't brought anything yet, and I dare say that you probably won't bring it, except for some cosmetic treatment. Like unemployment, I repeat, with pensions, it's going to be a huge sum. When you talk about the first pillar being guaranteed, it's a state guarantee, so ask Spain, Greece, maybe Portugal, what certainty it is these days. What we are not talking about is that you have questioned the principle of fund financing of anything at all, so I am afraid that even with the steps that Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš has already taken with the amendment of taxes quite quickly some time ago, you are condemning our country potentially to capital poverty. You've done so today's presentation. We are merely pointing out that there are political parties and Members who are aware of the state, so that you do not say: after all, the entire House has been silent, no one has said anything. On the other hand, I'm telling you, when the crisis breaks out, what anyone will take on you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I do not see anyone else registered for the general debate. Mr. Benda reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u86	Mr Vice-President, Mr Vice-President of the Government, speakers, ladies and gentlemen, I expected that at least at second reading, I listened carefully, there will be some ideas about what the government coalition is planning with the pension system. We have repeated here that the Minister of Finance spoke at first reading, he told us that within three months he would present his proposal for pension reform. Then he got a little upset and began to read some preliminary material, which was not quite good, because the evidence was really slightly unfortunate and would lead to consequences for our pensioners completely unwanted, so he took it back and said he would present something else. It seems that he will probably not submit anything, because he has already stated that he is unable to do so, that it is not possible to present an amendment here. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who should be responsible for pensions, doesn't even sit here, I don't know, maybe she's at an important meeting abroad, I don't doubt it, but I would expect the Minister not only to be responsible for socially disadvantaged children, but also to be here for the pension system and to be able to tell us something. Some members of the government coalition, as Mr Votava, who says so here, are making some partial proposals to improve the third pillar. This is probably quite useful, I commend Mr Votava publicly, I think that many of the proposals are reasonable, I just think that this does not address the situation at all. Yes, they are proposals that improve one way of saving, but I have the impression who sees the numbers, so he knows that the third pillar will not replace the dramatic outages of the first pillar. There it is now saved one and a half times what is paid annually for pensions. [[12.00 hours]] This means that the third pillar in today's situation, even if there were a partial increase in it, and now I will forget what Mr Stanjura says, that very often money is collected at the beginning of retirement essentially to improve people, but the third pillar will not really save you as a system. I will save in the third pillar maximum tax advantage in some 14 or 15 years and I have written that I will have 4 thousand more in retirement. I don't know if you can imagine what it's going to be in about 20 years of retirement, if there's even any retirement upper limit, but I'm afraid with the gradual inflation that's going on, it's not gonna pull me apart. What we blame for the government coalition - the Prime Minister here stepped up and said "the second pillar was badly dimensioned." So let's talk about whether it was badly dimensioned or whether it was given by the whole opposition saying "we're going to cancel it immediately." But why doesn't the government coalition come up with the parameters of the second pillar to be in something else? Of course, we could talk about that, which would be a reasonable thesis if you said: mandatory, less, more, should be better for other income groups. Those are all things I can understand. That's just how you say "only 90,000 people logged in." Honestly, only 90,000 people seem so few in terms of the number of pensioners. From the point of view of the population of this country and the solution to their life situations, 90,000 people are by far less. Most of the laws we're adopting here, most of the amendments we're adopting here, we're working for tens of hundreds of people who find themselves in some difficult situation. 90,000 people, if we're already law-abiding for them, it's a pretty decent number. And you call these people "you tried to save money, now you can either spill it or you can choose it." I am a participant in both the third pillar and the second pillar. I'm in both conflict of interest, even though I'm a little bit positive here, because if you tell me that you're going to cancel what I should have saved on the state, I'm going to take back to the third pillar and I can choose the rest, I'm going to pick it next year and I'm going to get better at Christmas. But I didn't do much to retire. What bothers us is that there's no thesis coming and that you're obviously halfway through the term and you're saying, "We don't care anymore, we're gonna kind of have fun here for the next two years, and what's gonna happen next and next term is someone else's business." But that's not really how I think pension reform can be done. And if that's what we're calling for, let's find a consensus, but let's look at positive points instead of rejecting something. If the commission was only talking about how to break the second pillar as quickly as possible, because social democracy promised it, it was the error of the commission's assignment. The committee was supposed to say, "We have such ideas, there and there we want to go and we need a second pillar, or it doesn't fit, it has to be parametrically changed, we have to say the condition that there is mandatory input or that there is an input from which I have opt-out." But not the only idea you've brought: cancel the second pillar. And I think it's the middle-income ones, because frankly, if you're talking about the MPs here, it's certainly not, you know, the richer ones from this country, but the medium-income ones, the richer ones save in a different way, they're buying real estate here or somewhere abroad, or they're investing in a whole other business than saving it in the second and third pillars, but the medium-income people's chance to save on their own pensions that we gave, you take, you call them, "we're gonna give you the money back now and enjoy it." And you're not bringing anyone another alternative. If we really think that parametric savings changes in the third pillar will help us dramatically to improve the pension system for the future, I think President Votava will also acknowledge that this is not the case. It's a pretty good save. Yes, they want to introduce elements for minors or young children, for whom it will be much more likely saving for school or some supplement to building savings. But the idea that with these parametric changes I can really improve the deficit on a pension account that is relatively high today, and we have relatively high employment when we get back to 2008, 2009 with a dramatic downturn and with dramatically rising unemployment, I am really wondering who will be able to finance it. I think there's no basic consensus on what needs to be said. It says here, "He's gonna figure it out, it's gonna work out, some employers, some state's gonna give you some money and it's gonna be for retirement." Unless we say the thesis that I said here at first reading and I repeat it over and over again in retirement savings. We are the richest generation in the history of the Czech Republic. And I mean all residents. Of course, we are each somewhere else, but we are the richest generation in the history of the Czech Republic. We have the least children in the history of the Czech Republic. If we do not accept that this generation will have to deny itself a little bit of its use - to deny - and that it will be ready to pay its parents' pensions and save up for its own, then we have no chance of going through the whole problem. [[with emphasis]] Then the only solution is the German solution. We'll bring in all the refugees from Syria or Afghanistan or anywhere else and hope they'll work on us. I don't really believe it. I know that this was a thesis that, some 15 or 17 years ago, was reported by then Prime Minister Špidla, who said "we don't have to be afraid of demographic decline, we'll replace it with immigrants." I think that at the time he meant immigrants rather from the countries of the former Soviet Union, today and there is a demographic decline so high that I don't know if there will be enough of them, so it will probably have to be immigrants from the Middle East. But if we do not want to approach this solution and we are not able to force people to have more children, and there have been repeated world examples here, President Fiala spoke about Mussolini's case, world examples of how attempts to increase birth rate rarely work, if people are simply not interested in it, so if we are unable to increase birth rate, we must tell people: "You must save your own pensions in your lifetime. There won't be enough young people to make money for you." And if we don't tell this thesis honestly all of us and honestly in this House, in my opinion, we're just putting off the problem and we're all squirting, and in 20 years we're gonna say, "now we're in trouble because we don't have enough young people to make money on older people's pensions." And the only solution will be to push further and further the retirement age. Otherwise, we have to tell people "you have to save." I think it was, of course, the fatal mistake of the then government coalition, but unfortunately we lost it in it, that we admitted that the second pillar would not be compulsory, that it would be voluntary, and even with entry, I think it was a fatal mistake, but if today's government coalition had brought me a change that says "we will make the second pillar mandatory, come agree if it is not too favored, too little favored, let's make it mandatory, let's tell people you have to save yourself" so I would consider it a fair and honest solution that the opposition is ready to talk about. If you just implement the social democracy programme, we will cancel the second pillar, although we did not agree to it, so I think we do not solve anything for anyone, and we just delay the problem and dishonestly say to the citizens 'it will turn out somehow'. I'm saying that if we don't start saving very quickly, it's gonna end badly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u87	Thank you. Mr Gabal is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u88	Thank you for the floor. I was only briefly through you to my colleague Benda, because he repeated that crap with Mussolini here again. Just if our primary age is moving slowly over the 30th year, more than 40 percent of children are born outside of marriage and often incomplete families, single mothers, and there are 12,000 places missing in kindergartens and in Central Bohemia 10,000, then just this circumstance will push my birth rate down for nothing, however we should be dealing with this. I just don't know what you're talking about about Mussolini and shit like that! We can only release demographic dynamics and respect how society develops and not talk ideological crap here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u89	Thank you, and please, to Mr Benda's mike, with de facto effect. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u90	Well, I'm sorry, but I'd like to respond to an honored colleague through you. Maybe I've been talking ideological crap, I don't rule that out, but you, Mr. Ambassador, do you really think you're able to force young people today to have a baby 30 years ago? That there are some measures you're going to tell them that's what's going to happen? Where do we live? It's still the idea that the state is capable of influencing everything. This is the trend we're not able to change today. We may be able to persuade them personally, but we can't change them. We can't order young people to have their first child by the age of 25 and their second child by the age of 30 and their third child by the age of 35. The problem of kindergarten places. That depends on how each Prague can organise it. Prague 4, which I have worked on in the long run, has always had places in kindergartens covered because it never privatized them. But that's a completely different story, and I don't think that kindergarten places have anything to do with whether parents decide to have a baby or whether they decide to have a baby. If you have any recipes for making people have more kids, then bring it in. If you don't have it, then I think I'm right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u91	Thank you, and now please, Mr Gabal, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u92	Thank you for the floor. Holt at some law schools lacks an introduction to demography and sociology. Just what we're dealing with in demographics, and I mentioned it here, is a battle for a second child. Nobody is going to force anyone to be first-parents before they finish college, careers and everything, but it's about making conditions where it's more likely to make a decision for another child, and that just affects kindergartens because they affect the possibility of continuing a career in the workplace even if it's a one-man household. Of course, it is financially risky and socially tense in terms of income, which is why the question of whether or not it will return to employment and kindergarten is a condition is just extremely important. This isn't about pushing someone to reduce the birthing age. Okay, well, if we can do that, but no one can do that, but if we can make it easier for a second child in particular, that's what demographic debate is. And that's where the kindergarten rules. We need to study basic literature on how society develops. We're supposed to manage it and create conditions, so we need to know it and not here just... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-10-09-ps2013-033-04-004-007.u93	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and I am asking whether there is an interest in final words. It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate, which also does not include any application, so I am ending the detailed debate, and I am also ending the second reading of this proposal. We will now proceed to discuss the point.
