ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 43 Members already. The invitation was distributed through the parliamentary clubs on 14 December 2015. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mr. Jan Hamáček has the replacement card number 17 and Mr. Bohuslav Chalupa has the replacement card number 8. We shall now proceed to the designation of two verifiers for the minutes of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Jiří Mihola and Mrs Marta Semelová. Mr. Holeček has a replacement card number 13. I repeat, I propose that we designate Mr Jiří Mihola and Mrs Marta Semelová. Does anyone else have a suggestion? If this is not the case, I shall put this proposal to the designation of verifiers to a vote. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of Mr Mihola and Mrs Semelová being verifiers of the minutes, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number one, 122 Members are registered, for 116, against none. I note that we are the verifiers of the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies designated by Mr Jiří Mihola and Mrs Marta Semelová. Mrs Nohavová has a replacement card number 3. I declare that, before the opening of the meeting, Mr Martin Plíšek asked for the Volčík of his absence, Mr Petr Adam for Rykala of health, Mr Ladislav Velebný Bebarová for personal reasons, Mr Vlasta Bohdalová for personal Sedláček, Mr Jaroslav Borka for reasons of work, Mr René Číp for reasons of health, Mr Radim Fiala for Vácha of family reasons, Mrs Pavel Havíř for Markéta of work, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček for Wernerová of work, Mr Milada Halíková for personal reasons, Mr Josef Novotný for Karel of health Tureček, Mr Olga Havlová for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Holík for reasons of work, Mr Jitka Chalánková for personal reasons, Mr Rom Kostřica for Jiří Zlatuška, Mr Josef Novotný for Dana of health Váhalová, Mr Nykl Nyklová for Vyzula of health reasons, Mr Miroslav Opálka without giving reason, Mr Herbert Pavera, Mr Jiří Štětina for personal reasons, Mr. The following members of the government apologize: Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek for work reasons, Minister Jiří Dienstbier for work reasons, Minister Svatopluk Němeček for work reasons, Minister Robert Pelikán for work reasons, Minister Kateřina Valachová for work reasons and Minister Lubomír Zaorálek for work reasons. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 38th meeting, the proposal of which is in the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. The approved programme may also not be extended. Before we vote on the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Zbyněk Fiala, President of the ODS, shall be the first to vote. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. - Petr Fiala, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Looking at the Prime Minister, I crossed you, I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you in this late pre-Christmas time and as a representative of the petitioners, I would like to introduce you to the reasons why we are gathered here. With the reasons that led us to convene this extraordinary meeting. We would like to do something good at this meeting before Christmas and we would like to postpone the inspection report, called. VAT payer's check report, by one year. As you all know, the obligation to submit control reports was laid down in the Value Added Tax Act in December 2014. You may also remember that we had already warned about this institute, about this instrument. We warned that this was quite a big intervention for entrepreneurs, that the law brings new responsibilities, brings new administration that it would also entail high costs. Only when we looked at the explanatory report was it clear that the additional costs for entrepreneurs should reach up to 1.5 billion in total. CZK and that filling or processing each processing will cost entrepreneurs 3.5 hours of time, which is also no small thing. The Minister of Finance and the entire government coalition did not hear our reservations at the time and the law was passed. You can ask - well, that happened a year ago, and why are you now coming up with the idea that the inspection report should be postponed? The reason is not only that the law is bad and brings unnecessary... or the institute is bad and brings unnecessary burdens for entrepreneurs. But the reason is how the whole thing was prepared. And we would like to achieve a delay just before this measure is effective because the year available has not been used by the Ministry of Finance to prepare well and, above all, to prepare well and inform entrepreneurs of their new responsibilities. This is a statement that is difficult to question, because when some questionnaire investigations are made among businessmen, it turns out that a maximum of a quarter is ready for this new obligation. On the contrary, if you look at the findings of the Chamber of Commerce, you will find that 18, 18 percent of entrepreneurs say that they are prepared for a new obligation and that they are sufficiently informed. What we're proposing here is not just the idea of the opposition. I have heard some coalition MPs say: the opposition must always criticize, and that is why you want to block this very important measure here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a matter or an opinion of the opposition. Dropping mine. supports the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers. The institute does not agree with such renowned chambers as the Bar or the Chamber of Tax Advisors, which undoubtedly understands this. Experience from Slovakia, where such control reports have been valid since 2014, experience from Slovakia shows that increased bureaucracy is one thing for taxpayers, but the other is also an increase in the work of accounting and tax advisors. [[10.10 hours]] Then, of course, there's another reason. You may also know that a group of senators has initiated the Constitutional Court, and it would therefore be logical to wait for his statement, and that would allow us to postpone the audit report for a year. According to the explanatory memorandum submitted here last year, the inspection report is closely linked to the electronic sales log. But initially, the Ministry of Finance assumed that it would implement electronic records of sales from the beginning of 2016. It turns out he's completely unrealistic. Even the half of 2016 is not realistic, and that is another reason why it is reasonable to postpone control reports. You may object - but you should have come up with it sooner. Now it's the end of December, and how are we gonna do all this? Here I must say that we have already submitted the proposal on 9 November, just when it turns out that entrepreneurs are not informed and that the Financial Administration has not done what it should have done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u3	I apologize very much, Mr President. I do not know what the Members would object to, but I have to say that there is too much noise here, and I ask that the House keep its voice down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u4	However, although we have put forward this proposal on 9 November, the Government has not adopted its position until 7 December, so it has made use of the maximum period of 30 days, and this, of course, leads to very little time for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. But it's not us who put businessmen in uncertainty. It is another, or the government has done so again by delaying its position. Since I was saying here that it is not just our opinion, the opposition's opinion that the control report should be postponed, I will briefly introduce you to some of the arguments raised by reputable organizations that draw attention to defects in the control report. For example, the Chamber of Commerce mentioned earlier, I heard it on the radio where we discussed with Mr Volný, Mr Member, as he said that he had not heard anything like this from the Chamber of Commerce and that they spoke to the President and he did not say anything to them, so the Chamber of Commerce clearly stated: We do not prevent the idea of delaying the effectiveness of the measures in order to reopen the unbiased debate to a possible revision of the established Institute of Control Reports or to use the time delay in the legalisation of compensation for business entities. The Chamber of Commerce continues to take the view that the control report constitutes a significant increase in the administrative burden and that the newly introduced obligation should therefore be offset by reliefs or improvements in payment or administrative terms. A negative position, as I said, was also taken by the Chamber of Tax Advisors, an organisation that will deal most with the effects of the inspection report. I'm sure the Chamber of Tax Advisors deserves to be heard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u5	I'm really sorry, but it really looks more like Christmas markets. I would like to ask the House to keep it down, so that you pay attention to the opinion of the Chamber of Tax Advisors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u6	According to the Chamber of Tax Advisors, the control report represents a significant burden on honest taxpayers. The Chamber of Tax Advisors calls on the Financial Administration to mitigate the disproportionate sanctions imposed and to try to reduce the difficulties associated with the introduction of the control report, so that everything takes place without unnecessary burdens and penalties on taxpayers. Furthermore, the Chamber of Tax Advisors states that although the basic rules relating to the control report are already in the VAT Act from the end of 2014, the Financial Administration only published information on the method of completing the control report at the beginning of December 2015. Such delay, despite the relatively long period of application of the control report, constitutes a significant complication in the implementation of this measure. A number of arguments were put up against the tax report by the Czech Bar Association, which believes that the collection of data, which will accompany the inspection report, is contrary to the requirements of the fundamental principles of this state, in particular the second paragraph of the third Constitution of the Czech Republic. Finally, another institution I have appointed here, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers, says that VAT control reports are threatening obligations. It has become a threat to small entrepreneurs and businessmen, and only shortly before the effectiveness of this law shows what is at risk for entrepreneurs. The Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers says that this is an obvious tool against small entrepreneurs and businessmen. It is a clear restriction on entrepreneurial freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how much the opinions of the various associations, professional chambers and other institutions would be needed, how many arguments you need to hear in order for the Minister of Finance to acknowledge that the introduction of the control report was a mistake, or at least that the control report, which is an obvious fact, was not well communicated to the Financial Administration, was not sufficiently informed by entrepreneurs, and that there are therefore all reasons for us to delay the monitoring report, at least to delay its effectiveness. And that's the proposal we're coming up with. Therefore, if you do not want to completely abolish the duty of the inspection report, which would, of course, be the best thing to do, then at least I ask you to agree to postpone and allow entrepreneurs to prepare themselves properly for this matter. If you ask what are the risks of voting to postpone the inspection report today, the answer is simple. There's no risk. In fact, there is only one risk that I can quote from the explanatory note to the VAT Act, and it says: In the case of maintaining the existing regulation of the law, the coalition agreement between the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL will not be fulfilled for the parliamentary period 2013 to 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that such a risk of failing to meet the coalition agreement could be borne easily by all of us and that it would be reasonable in this pre-Christmas time to give entrepreneurs a small gift, perhaps a big gift, and that would be to postpone the obligation of the VAT payer's inspection report by at least one year. So I ask you, for all the plaintiffs, to support our proposal and to postpone the inspection report for a year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u7	Thank you to Chairman Fial. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] The President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura is another one with priority rights. After him, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u8	Good morning, thank you for the floor. I'll try to name four reasons and disprove one myth, virtually. two myths that are connected to this law. So the first major reservation is administrative complexity. Sometime in November, an annual World Bank study was published on how much time tax entities spend filing tax returns. 189 countries are in the rankings and we have placed in a nice 122nd place. We can't even defend this miserable location if we put in a check report. If the government estimates, and it is always very optimistic about the time intensity that someone else has to do, not the government, but the entrepreneurs, it estimated 3.5 hours a month, which is 42 hours a year, i.e. 10 per cent increase. When we compare the surrounding countries, it is very often compared, so in Slovakia it is 188 hours, in Poland 278 hours, in Germany 218 hours, Rakušan 166 hours, Maďar 277 hours, and we, I remind you, already today 405, are preparing two administratively very demanding projects, inspection reports and electronic records of sales. It should be said that according to the study, which compares the cost of profits that make up all taxes, so last year, respectively. This year against last year it increased by 2 percentage points, so it is more than 50 percent of the share of profits that entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic will pay. And to make it very clear, it compares the medium-sized company, its tax obligations, and it includes profit tax, corporate taxes, social contributions, taxes paid by the employer for his employee, property taxes, property transfer tax, dividend tax, capital property tax, financial transaction tax, taxes, waste collection, road taxes and other minor taxes. This long list already shows how many tax obligations we have. [[10.20 hours]] If we continue this trend, that means online cash operations and check reports on cash-free operations, the logical step would be to have an employee of the Ministry of Finance run all the accounting companies. It would probably be best. He could send the inspection reports every day, there wouldn't be any worries, no doubt they would be people who are being checked by the Ministry of Finance. But I don't know if it's the right way for a civil servant to sit in every company to keep accounts and reports to the state. I don't know if you all know, many companies are reporting four monthly reports on VAT today, with monthly payers. This is the VAT return itself, then so-called. summary reporting, this concerns tax transactions that are cross-border, and then reverses charge on the side of suppliers and reverses charge on the side of customers. Interestingly, invoices, tax documents in the reverse charge regime, where they are not actually included in the VAT are also to be included in the VAT control report. Such a certain irrationality. Further clauses are high sanctions. Those sanctions are automatic, it's also affecting the human factor. All you have to do is get the accountant wrong in one invoice number. It's a mistake, even if she finds out for herself and it's gonna be fixed, so the sanctions are pretty high. That means, we'll still have the risk of someone copying ten characters, the invoice number, that he's entering it into the accounting system, and if he's wrong, nothing happens on the VAT return itself, the invoice will be in the system, the tax will be paid, yet there are high sanctions. I want to talk about data abuse. The state of this system gets a huge amount of data. We hear it's gonna be a few dozen select employees, vetted, with security clearance. But doesn't anyone want to say that only these few dozen employees will be carrying out checks on all tax entities? [[Several Members speak loudly to each other.]] I'd like to ask who doesn't care to keep his mouth shut or talk somewhere else. Thank you, colleagues. [[A note from the Minister of Interior off the microphone.]] Not through Mr President, Minister of the Interior - and we can address ministers directly. Firstly, you are interrupting, secondly, if I address a particular Member. Learn the Rules of Procedure, you've been here for two years, you might know him. Now I'm gonna forget that somebody's talking to me and interrupting like they're in primary school. So if these final checks are carried out, and logically, the employees of individual branches of the financial office, they'll have the data at their disposal. And it's extremely sensitive data. Remember last week, the finance minister said in the debate about EET: for what, who doesn't want to have an EET, so he doesn't take cash payments, he can do them in cash, and the state doesn't care. But he forgot to say, but by other means, this is what the state is interested in. So the state will know everything. If the government proposes a control report or reporting only selected commodities at risk of carousel trading, or if the government sets a turnover limit, hundreds of thousands of small payers will get out of it. Or are you going to tell me that those who have one, two, five, ten or twenty million per year are the ones who organize carousel fraud? That's not true. And I'm talking about turnover, I'm not talking about payment of VAT, so even if it's all in 21 percent, that's 2.1 million, which is less than 200,000 a month. So, unfortunately, the measure is flat - and we are defending it - small Czech taxpayers who are certainly fulfilling their tax obligations, because of those who are cheating, and we do not question it, so they too will have unnecessary administrative demands. Another argument is the unpreparedness of entrepreneurs. Today I heard at various press conferences that this is the largest information campaign of the Ministry of Finance in history. Wow! So maybe it's the biggest, but it's completely inadequate. Notice an interesting timeline. On November 6th, we filed a bill and in two weeks, November 20th, the Ministry of Finance sent the so-called data box. an information leaflet for the introduction of a control report. I recommend to all of you who haven't seen it to read it. One A4, completely incomprehensible, without a clear explanation. That the information of entrepreneurs is very low, so are the surveys made by the Chamber of Commerce. It is interesting when the Chamber of Commerce has a relatively positive opinion on the EET, so I hear it in every second appearance of government politicians. At the moment the Chamber of Commerce says: put off the inspection report, so suddenly the voice of the Chamber of Commerce is not important. And the last thing, that's the pairing of invoices. Now I will note that there will also be VAT payers in that system, who logically - logically by not paying VAT, cannot cheat with VAT. Yet their data, their invoices will appear regularly in that system. [[unintelligible]] Now, I'm going to overlook the simple idea that on the 25th, everyone's going to hand over a control report, some central human brain is going to process it, and November 28th, we're going to lose invoices that aren't paired up, and it's going to hit reality. First of all, we have monthly payers and quartal payers. There may be a difference in the pairing for four months now. Then, of course, we have a case where the invoice comes in third in a month, the entity that issued it has it - because it sent it 31. - e.g. in the January tax settlement, but the person who accepted it, of course, has it logically according to the law for February. It's just true. I will ask the Member if she wants to speak, to sign up for the debate. Unfortunately, her colleagues won't let her do that, because I know you don't want to approve the program, so you government MPs who have something to say won't stand a chance. If you have something to say, convince your club presidents to normally approve the program and we could discuss it. So these are four basic comments - administrative demands, unpreparedness, high sanctions and the possibility of data abuse. And now for the efficiency. I heard again how you can't make it to January 1st. But the first tax return, the first check report will be submitted when? Winning February 2016 - 25 February 2016. When the government did not have time to discuss income tax, she said: there is no problem that it will not be approved by the end of the year, but it will be effective from 1 January. So you can't argue that it won't make it. If there was a will, it would be done. At this point, we're proposing a one-year delay. If you would approve, that year we can discuss how we would better target the instrument so that it is not flat, that it is only on selected market segments and with some pre-defined share of turnover. Otherwise, you actually add additional and additional hours of administrative difficulty to all those who will have to do it. And try to imagine the small companies, whether you still don't look at the big company that has a team of lawyers, a team of economists who have one accountant, how short there are deadlines, and how draconian sanctions are there if there is a failure to comply with that deadline. And even the fact that a man himself will fix something, alone, without the state having to do anything, and yet the state will pay for it - I don't know if the principle... But the bill also falls within the basic philosophy with which this government approaches, in particular, small entrepreneurs, tradesmen. They're all dirty suspects, and they're gonna develop regularly and prove they're innocent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Another with priority rights is Chairman TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers have made the situation much easier for me because they have quite clearly given the reasons for which we believe that this law should not apply since the winning February 2016. We thought he shouldn't pay at all, but it's definitely not ready to work successfully from February 25. I don't want to keep you here in Advent time by repeating everything I said about this bill when we were discussing it. High sanctions, a completely unbalanced power position by the state towards entrepreneurs and a very shorter end of the rope by entrepreneurs to the state, whether it be sanctions, whether it be time limits, whether it be rights or obligations, or whether it be the imposition of responsibility for any process that they cannot influence. [[10.30 hours]] For example, you have approved that the entrepreneur is responsible for delivering the inspection report, not for sending it. How does that affect the process? While the State, of course, does its duty at the time of dispatch, not at the time of delivery. It's just a little example of a completely pointless unbalanced position. All this I have said here, my colleagues also, and despite all these arguments that contain the arguments of the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs, the Chamber of Tax Advisors, I dare say that you were deaf and blind or you had some other priorities than these arguments and this law became a valid part of the rule of law. However, during the year when we argued in vain, several things happened that were worth considering and warning whether the law should actually come into effect on a specified date. This is mainly about discussing possible data abuse. I dare say that the data available to the Financial Administration today is sufficient after the legislative changes that have been made between 2010 and 2012 and which have also slightly increased administrative demands, but only slightly. There are so many data that it is difficult for Financial Administration to process them across the board. It can be oriented only selectively. If there are a hundred times as many as there are in the case of a check report, then it is absolutely impossible to process them across the board. There will really only be selective selection, and at the end is the realization of the threat that we have pointed out, and that is data abuse. And during that year, the Finance Minister himself has shown himself several times publicly that he is already using the data that is now available. Let me give you a little example. The Minister, and it is traceable, here on the microphone several times declared during the discussion of electronic sales records that Vietnamec do not pay taxes. As former Minister of Finance, I know that it is possible for the Minister of Finance to say that large tax evasion takes place in those sectors or sectors, that large tax evasion takes place in the field of construction or hospitality. But there is no mechanism for legal access to the payment or non-payment of taxes in terms of nationality. The only mechanism is that the Minister simply assigned someone to go through all the people with a Vietnamese name and give him this information, which is information he doesn't have the right to, and if he asked for it, he took advantage of the information. And the statement that Vietnamec don't pay taxes is 100% evidence made by the Finance Minister on his own that he is using the existing financial administration data now. I only expect to know when or when the Minister will publicly introduce us to his opinion, which he sometimes likes to repeat in the galleys that the Žid do not pay taxes. How would the Minister like it if Minister Sobotka, when he was Minister of Finance, or Minister Kalousek, when he was Minister of Finance, publicly said on this microphone that the Slovák were not paying taxes? Or at least the biggest Slovák living in the Czech Republic that doesn't pay taxes. He would certainly call this an outrageous abuse of the tax administration's information used by the minister for political attacks on one or the national group. The Minister of Finance has repeated this several times. If anybody doesn't believe me, look it up in that tent. And he has used Financial Administration data several times to disproportionately and, above all, illegally attack a national group. Why do we think he won't attack other groups in the same way? After the Vietnamcy come the Žid, then come the businessmen who trade with Babišův's commodities. Who's coming after that? Who's coming after the Vietnamcy? Just during the year you passed the law, the minister proved he was using the data. And you want to give him that data a hundred times more. That in itself should be sufficient reason for you to either abolish this law or exchange the Minister of Finance. This law with this Minister of Finance is a dangerous instrument for any democratic and free environment of any country, and unfortunately the Minister has proved it himself by his public statements in the House. The next thought I want to at least tell you is - for God's sakes, let's try to think about what we really want to have access to taxpayers. There are two possible ways, client and repressive. The client's way of trying to make the situation as friendly as possible for taxpayers, simplifying and making it more transparent, which, of course, makes it possible to concentrate control capacities on those fraudsters who are a minority there. We have about 300,000 VAT payers, and according to all the analyses I've ever gotten to, it's estimated to be up to 5,000 troublemakers, or if you want morally unintegrated or those who purposefully and intentionally, not by some mistake, allow tax cuts. So because of these 500,000, we're going to bully 295,000 honest people, we're going to impose new responsibilities on them, and they're going to laugh at the 5,000 anyway, because they're going to find some kind of fraud. [[Right 5,000]] That's the approach where I assume that out of the 300 grand, they're all frauds, sorry, not 300,000, but 299 999, because the Minister is also a VAT payer. He doesn't think so. Or I have this attitude that if everyone wants to do it right and honest, I'm gonna simplify it, which I already did. The applicable legal system included a single collection point and the unification of the tax base for personal income taxes, health and social insurance. You argued that this would result in a disproportionate tax reduction. Okay. That's your political right. Then you could without a problem increase that parameter rates, arbitraryly, because you have the majority for it, but there was no reason to cancel already in our legal order valid unification of the social, health insurance and personal income tax base. That was already true in the law, and everyone was ready for it because it was a year and a half ahead. You guys canceled and left a complication of three different bases for one direct charge. There wasn't a single reason. If you did not wish to reduce taxes, you could have adjusted the rates, but this could have been the unification of the base. It might as well have come to that unified collection point. We've made one of the laws you don't want to deal with at all. Notice that at least we're discussing the EET. [[He's laughing.]] You don't want to put this bill on the program at all. This is a unified control point that the businessman, the entrepreneur, today has 27 checks uncoordinated, from different places, food inspection starting, business inspection ends, and has to handle all this legislatively, even in a process, and we think that the exact same position should take place, that one check would come, with the methodological support of individual institutions, to carry out control in all the areas that it needs to stand there, but one control group or one controller in one term, and not twenty different control groups in thirty different terms. How do you do business in this? These are all our proposals, some of which have even been a valid part of the rule of law. You canceled. You voted that the law wouldn't apply again. And the other thing that goes to simplification, you don't want to discuss it at all. [[10.40 hours]] Those are the two different approaches, I don't think we'll be able to see for ourselves. You choose the repressive one, you choose the one who actually adds hours and hours of administrative work. There's nothing we can do about it. You just believe it, and you think it's so good, so do it. I'm not saying I'm the bearer of a single truth. But the use of confidential data protected by tax secrets for a political attack on one national group by the Minister of Finance is an objective fact. And I am at any time able to document it with several statements from this House of Deputies. If he did not share this on the basis of current information and against one national group, there is no reason for him to think that he will be offended if he has a hundred times more information, and any group that is not dependent or subordinate to Agrofert is hostile to him and he will attack it with this information. That in itself is a huge warning and my huge request that you do not allow it. Because it's not my fabulation, I didn't. You heard that with your own ears. The Minister of Finance used confidential tax information to attack one national group. That's what happened. [[He speaks strongly, urgently.]] And even several times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u11	Thank you to President Kalousek. Another registered priority right is President František Laudát, after whom Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long. It's pre-Christmas time, and it's a little unfortunate for today. However, a few comments. I often see people saying, "Okay, so you're an anti-grandmother, you're criticizing Babiš... Mr President, do you think you could put the Minister of Finance behind my back in order to stop interfering? [[Minister Babiš is on the phone.]] I know he doesn't care that his work only turns into political ags that are useless, doesn't solve specific things, he doesn't even know how to deal with them. At least if he wasn't talking here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u13	I'm announcing that the Prime Minister has a replacement card number 15. I'll ask everyone who's making phone calls or making calls here to transfer their calls to the lobby. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u14	So we're blamed that we're actually just criticizing, we're negative, and we're not bringing anything new. It has already been mentioned here in the previous speech by our President. To those who have forgotten and do not want to hear, so I say to the public: You could have had a single collection place for a year now. It would mean nothing more than sending a specific, clearly defined, easily counted amount to the office, and that would end your tax matters with tax returns. Instead, we are defending the EET here and instead you will be running, living in fear of whether you or your authorized person filed on 25 February, 25 March, etc. control reports. She didn't? You have a big problem. If you send him yourself, it'll be a thousand fine, if the office alerts you, 5,000 or 10,000. In a minute, 50, 500,000, in draconian form. There is no definition of how data will be handled. It's been said many times, and I'm not gonna say it again. However, IT experts have now said that it is actually to be used today already generally clearly, easily decoded code for data transmission. Not to mention, if the financial authorities send it to each other, there may not even be protection. And I'm pointing out not only the risks of abuse from the inside, which was also mentioned here, but I'm pointing out the risks from the outside. That means... [[He'll shut up.]] I understand the people don't care, but if they're still, I'd be very happy. So that's another thing. Data protection is not guaranteed not only from the inside and their misuse, but also from the outside. So instead of a single collection point, respectable businessmen who may have also supported Babiš, you will be publishing, or your tax advisors, papers, respectively. report, send reports without any means of redress. If you don't happen to get confirmation that the data has been sent, and if the Financial Authority happens to say that you haven't sent them, then you'll probably pay. I don't know how the investigation will take place, whether it has been sent or not. On the other hand, when the office sends electronically, that's the end of it for him, it's the moment of dispatch. And if it doesn't come to you or anything, it's just your problem, it's not the government's problem. I don't know how constitutional such a system is without verification, without confirming that the data has been received. If voters, a certain part of the electorate had not chosen the parties that formed this coalition, there could have been one rate of value added tax. Instead, you have three rates. Instead of freedom, they offer you registers, registers, data collection about you, and, as Mr Babiš and others here are constantly showing off, they, of course, work with these data and work for one political group. She's not one party, she's the political division of one business conglomerate. So much. If any of you were interested in how economies work in the third millennium, he would know or read, which, of course, such people as Komárek and others will probably no longer prosecute that it makes sense, there is a chance of competitiveness and survival for an economy that has framework rules. And that all the progress that's taking place is made by millions of small decisions inside that system. That in order to stand up, to come up with new things, you need to move within extreme limits not only of the industry, but of the grips, of the attitude. And you want to destroy all this, endanger it, criminalize it. You don't cause anything but - and he's not going to be an immediate process. You're gonna make the country go back to the past. It will lose to those countries that resist attractions and the seeming, seeming chaos that the information age carries with it, you will try to cram into the grips, approaches and solutions of the last century. Ladies and gentlemen, this time is over. If you work on it, maybe you'll get sympathy, more people will vote for you one more time to wake up one morning and find out that we're at the level of some Senegal. I'm sorry, Senegal. Perhaps, unlike that, they will not and will not introduce such foolishness to you. I hope so. So Somalia, it's a broken state without a vision and a future. [[He's responding to a voice from the O.R.]] I don't know what maybe the future candidate for the Minister of Transport is, I don't know what he's laughing at. What I'm blaming for the control report project has already been discussed. I don't know if there was such a massive campaign. I'm sure it wasn't. Entrepreneurs, of course, on the other hand, as is customary in the Czech Republic, leave things at the last minute. The problem is, the law isn't that clear, and the risks to businessmen are enormous. If I have studied well the comments not only by entrepreneurs, but also by the Chambers of Commerce and others, when I sum up, so when they are small entrepreneurs, so since they are likely to transfer the duty of inspection reports to their tax advisors, there is clearly a risk that they will be paid by at least half, a third, maybe even double the remuneration. So it's not true that it won't cost them anything. I mean, tax advisors don't take risks, they don't do extra jobs for the same amount of money. [[10.50 hours]] That means it'll be another job, more worries, more uncertainty, more unnecessary wasted money for the benefit of several companies that will manage the system. Cemetery terms, liquidation fines, I find it really draconian and insane that in such a one-way way... I wonder, I didn't find any in there that if the state breaks anything, if it compensates for the damages without enforcement in court. Data collection in one place, it's been said here, breaking down business secrets. I'm afraid it's not just from the inside, but it can happen from the outside. No network is so resilient, and with an increasing supply of data, the competition and the hacekras, who will just want to prove their fitness, or have general anger and personal frustration, will become more and more and more competitive in order for similar systems, as is happening in the world, to just kick in, to attack. And, of course, I'm also afraid of losing competitiveness. For so long you will be tightening up in the Czech Republic for a group whose biggest fault is that it is doing business that it wants to take care of itself, wants to create conditions for its children, thinks of the future, is a stabilizing element, so long you will tighten the screw when you cause it not to be here. The Czech middle class has not yet been able to form in the sense of classic middle classes, as is the case in developed countries, where, unfortunately, even there the process is due to regulation, threats, deterioration of conditions for business, so it is also in decline or the region of bankruptcy. Unfortunately, this is exactly what is reflected in economies. Look at France, look at all the states, the southern states of the European Union, side by side. I think that if you wanted to show a little goodwill, it wouldn't be a problem to at least postpone the inspection report and really run it in a credible way at the moment, if at all, when it will be completely precisely prepared and clearly defined, technically tested and top-secretly secured. You didn't do any of this. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you're giving one of the first, not the first, but one of the first scary gifts to the Czech business group. I was also willing to believe for a moment at the Social Democrats' convention when the Minister of Industry, the future Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek said that entrepreneurs are parasites. It is only now that I realize that this coalition, which unfortunately for some reason also KDU-ČSL, which in the outside is intoxicating with great ideals, is not surprising for the other two entities, so I can only see what the fight against parasites will mean today. I mean, from this point of view, I, too, am reporting, and I would be honored to be in a group of these parasites. Have a nice vánoce.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u15	I thank Mr Laudát. Now with priority rights, Minister Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Let me comment on the law we called the inspection report. I'm very surprised that this meeting was actually convened, because we passed the law here, after there was a Senate amendment, so we went to the entrepreneurs who filed the quartal report, and we originally wanted them to do it on a monthly basis, so we left it as quartal. And the law was passed on 22 December 2014 and is valid from 1 January 2015 and effective from 1 January 2016, so I do not understand what happened that suddenly part of the opposition woke up because when we voted here on 22 December 2014, the law was adopted by 137 votes, i.e. for was apart from the coalition, of course, was KSČM and Dawn, so of course TOP 09 and ODS were against, because they probably do not want us to collect taxes. And when I compare it with what you put forward here, and that was also a report, you put here the TOP 09 and the ODS called. summary reporting, and this was an extended obligation, summary reporting within the European Union, then services etc., you even changed the report to monthly. The original was quarterly. And you declared that law on 31 December 2009 and it was effective on 1 January 2010, so you gave those entrepreneurs one day. And we gave them one for a whole year. Let's see what it's all about. You guys haven't talked about this inspection report in a year. Nobody talked about it, no one talked about sanctions, no one gave any changelings. And you politicized the EET, and this is a much more important law for the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration than the EET. And you've always said here that the Financial Administration doesn't chase big fish, but here are the big fish. It's about big fish. The VAT system flows annually and in 2014 CZK 1 724 billion flowed and 80 billion were lost. Well, somebody stole them. No, it didn't. Someone stole it brutally. Actually, he didn't pay our VAT. And, of course, that's what the so-called fight is about. Reverse charge, what you always laugh at, and a checkup report and a Cobra. And it will be lost in the European Union annually and will not pay EUR 170 billion for VAT. This is a big problem for everyone or some, but for almost all the countries of the European Union. And in our country, it's 22 percent, 80 billion. It's more than our deficit. And you said we weren't doing anything against the big fish, but those are the big fish. The big fish was Ecoll Invest, 4.5 billion. That the Íránec is sitting in prison, well, but he robbed us of 4.5 billion. Metal fraud system, also 4.5 billion. A month ago, we even had a multinational company that cheated on gas, where we held at least $500 million. So these are the carousels, these are the big fish. And today you say no, we don't want to. You're putting businessmen back into this. I mean, that's not true. So this is against the big fish. And it's a very effective system. Paid back in the year... We, when $1,724 billion passes through us, the Financial Administration does not have enough options to verify the eligibility of individual claims for deduction. How are we supposed to check? That's impossible. And if Mr. Stanjura here is talking that we have to select some sectors, but they're gonna cheat you with anything. It doesn't matter. Everywhere VAT is paid, they can make carousels and they can cheat. So it's nonsense, and that's why it has to be flat. Of course, the return paid in 2014 was 308 billion, and recognition of the right to deduct is a condition for the success of carousel fraud, which leads to the payment of the refund. Tax collection of VAT in 2014 was 322 billion, which is 5.5 times lower than the amount of funds covered by the entire VAT system. Again, this is 20 per cent of VAT unpaid, that is 80 billion, and in terms of tax collection it is significantly more important than EET. [[11.00 hours]] And we're also very conservatively estimating that we're going to raise $10 billion next year. And, of course, it could be much more than that, because the combination of reverse charge, control report, and Cobra are tens of billions into the budget that we all need. Here was a recent debate about the RUD, that's money for cities and municipalities. Why don't you give money back to municipalities and cities? I mean, they're here - 10 billion. Which countries use control reports: Estonia, Spain, Slovakia, Czech companies know it from Slovakia, they have been there for two years. Why isn't VAT returns enough? Because the VAT return states the sum of the invoices with one number and we cannot find out the individual invoiced amounts from this number. If we do not know the value of individual invoices, we will not be able to verify the right of deduction. So when we suspect, and today it works based on some software that intuitively selects controls, the Financial Administration starts a lengthy and costly check. If it's systemic, it'll be good for businessmen, because the regular honest ones, and of course, they're the overwhelming majority, we'll control it from the table. We're not going to go after them, we're not going to start checking. We will not detain VAT deductions. It'll help on with the cash flow, they'll get the money first. Data for inspection reports. The Financial Administration will obtain usable information between whom, when and for how much the transaction took place. The possibility of abuse is slim. What Mr Kalousek has done here is, of course, absurd, because, as is his custom, he is, of course, brutally lying. I once said that the general perception of Vietnamese markets is what I said. Yes, it was an intuitive mistake. I apologized to them. I met Mr. Winter, who is the head of the Czech-Vietnam Society. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] You can laugh. And Mr Winter even applied for a member of the ANO movement. He represents 57,000 Vietnamese traders. You can ask him. And what Kalousek says is nonsense and lies. He abused data: Mopro against Vondra and ODS, he went to FAO and abused data. I've never been there in my life. And I didn't abuse any data. It's just a dirty lie again, nothing else. And no one can abuse the data. Nobody. And it's also not true what you said the tax advisors refused. They're not refusing. They're talking about sanctions. Of course, we said to sanctions that we would be dealing with this. The amendment to the Sanctions Act arises from the law without the possibility of administrative discretion on the part of the tax administrator. There will be a possibility of remission of fines, there is also retroactive application. And, of course, it's something new, and the Financial Administration will still approach it. And of course, legal and natural persons who have seriously violated tax and accounting legislation in the last three years will be excluded from the remission. [[There's noise in the room.]] So it's been on the table for a long time. It's not true we didn't inform. On May 13, 2015, we published information about the inspection report on the Financial Administration website. There was a model form and preliminary information to fill out the inspection report. 17 July 2015 we published xml structure, editing preliminary information, filling out the inspection report with indication of changes. And that hasn't changed. We sent flyers. We sent over 100,000 texts, 33,000 e-mails, 252,000 flyers to data boxes, addressed 385,000 VAT payers out of a total of 507,000. Payers receive leaflets at financial offices, we published an advert, we did campaigns, lectures and workshops with the Association of Industry and Transport, Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs and Trades, Association of Czech Travel Agencies and Travel Agencies, Confederation of Employers and Business Unions, Association of Towns and Municipalities, High School of Economics, Association of Trade and Tourism, Economic Chamber. I spoke to Mr. President Dlouhý yesterday. And it's not true what you say they're against. We presented it at TAX FORUM 2015. You, of course, are saying things that aren't true. They're not true. And I don't understand why ODS and TOP 09 are doing everything we can to avoid collecting taxes. Control reports and EETs are 30 billion per year: municipalities, cities, regions, pensioners, employees, teachers, firefighters, police officers, soldiers. Everyone needs money. And we said we needed money because we wanted to reduce the deficit. I really don't understand why you're fighting again. I guess I understand that because you didn't do anything to collect taxes, you just raised taxes, that reduced VAT rate from 5 to 15 percent, you introduced your pseudo-super gross wage and solidarity surcharges, which was just a camouflage for raising taxes. And you're actually comparing things here. Why are you talking about JIM? I mean, they're on income tax. The check report is VAT. You absolutely don't understand what's going on here. So I really don't understand. With regard to the difficulty of doing business, every year we write there, you set an example of Slovakia and Slovakia has control reports. I don't understand why you're comparing this place. Repeat. After a year you woke up. It's not true it's not ready. It's ready. The financial administration is ready, we've been campaigning for this. It's not true that data will be misused. It's a lie because some people here can only tell lies. Again, it's a measure against big fish. If anyone's talking about numbers, who's dishonest. We have introduced a new limit to the institute of unreliable payers. Look how the numbers have grown. We've already got almost 4,000 of them, these are the people who actually set up companies to rob us of VAT. Out of 507,000, we already have 5,000, and it's growing gradually. We submit and want to implement the control reports, because it is a fundamental law for us to collect taxes that we did not want to raise, unlike the opposition that is performing here. We've reduced taxes and we're effectively collecting them and we're going to collect them efficiently because this meeting is meaningless. I don't understand what you've been doing all year, and I don't understand why this meeting has been convened at all because it's against common sense and against all those who profit from public budgets and the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u17	I thank the Minister for his performance. Another with priority rights Mr. Chairman of the ANO membership club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman. After him, President Kalousek, after him, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u18	Good morning, colleagues. I had a short speech prepared, but most of it was heard here in the speech of the Minister of Finance. However, I will remind you once again that when the Senate returned this law, and it is symbolic, we voted precisely before 22 December on the return from the Senate, when we adopted the amendment that was there, and 137 Members voted for the law at that time, it was basically only TOP 09 and ODS, but this only confirmed the trend, which here today is that essentially these two parties do not want taxes to be collected in the Czech Republic. [[11.10 hours]] However, for the sake of interest, I pulled a complete steno recording from the whole law - first, second and third reading. I read it last night, who said what? And I have to say, it's just my opinion, which, from my point of view, is an ODS argument that doesn't want taxes to be collected, it's still the same, constant, stable. And I'm just quoting when we started discussing this law on 4 November, from the opening words of President Fiala: I, at a press conference in this context, recalled the words of the Bolshevik revolutionary Nikolaj Bucharin, who said that socialism, that is, above all, evidence. So the left-wing government here is very good at showing us what we're going to do, because this is another record, and the record is completely useless. [[A round of applause for Members of the ODS.]] Thank you. Thank you. It was a very informative reading for me. And I really intended to do something about my colleagues from the ODS, and some things sounded like they really had a head and a heel, unlike our precious colleague, through President Kalousek. I hate to use strong words, but my colleague Kalousek here today once again said that the President here, in his speech in defending this law, is a party to some groups and others are not. I've studied all of Babiš's performances in detail, I've got them at my disposal, my colleague, it's possible to refresh my memory, it's a year ago, so it's not that long ago, and there's not a word in it. [[shows papers in hand]] There really isn't a word in these tapes, so you weren't telling the truth. I won't use strong words, but I'm afraid that's not true. Finally, allow me to quote from the final speech by President Fiala before the vote: The Senate is returning to us here a bill amendment with similar comments as we are here, and I'm sure you'll remember that well, we were the citizens' Democrats in the Chamber of Deputies. We've got a bad novel on the table again, a bad novel prepared by the Treasury Secretary. We've been pointing that out. Now it's confirmed by the Senate and confirmed by the government senators' voices. We are fundamentally opposed to the introduction of control reports, because we want freedom of business, not to burden our entrepreneurs and businessmen with other and other measures that complicate their lives. [[A round of applause for Members of the ODS.]] Therefore - and therefore - we cannot support the amendment, which is good from our point of view. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u19	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Now Chairman Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, I want to tell my colleague Faltýnek that he'll just have no choice but to get a little more involved. I didn't claim that those outrageous statements were made by the Minister of Finance in the proceedings of this law. He committed them in many negotiations on electronic records of sales, and not once, but several times, always in his emotional output, which we can tell by how high the concentration is in Slovak or not. He repeated several times, not that the intuitive perception of Vietnamese markets is. Several times he said Vietnamec don't pay taxes. I'd be willing to bet him, but it doesn't make sense because he's the guy who finds out he lost the bet anyway. However, if you read equally carefully into all his speeches regarding electronic sales records or some other tax laws, you will read on the sound record the statement of the Minister of Finance that Vietnamec do not pay taxes. As former Finance Minister, I know that such information can only be accessed with data abuse. And if that's the information he officially said, then he must have had the evidence for her, and the evidence was found illegally. Illegally established evidence is data abuse, in this case, to attack one national group. There's nothing you can do about it. That's right. If the Minister of Finance does not intend to exploit his confidential information to attack one national group, he will certainly not be opposed to doing so in other cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u21	Thank you to President Kalousek. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u22	Obviously, we weren't the only ones reading the tapes. And just to explain to President Faltýnek, and thank you for making such political advertising for us. It's called a principled attitude. When I think something's wrong, not even a little improvement, because the Senate version was a little better by the fact that the quartet VAT payers would report once a quarter and not logically once a month, but still it was a principled position and we didn't change anything. And that's how it's supposed to be. And now, in general, to what is happening not only today, but in these weeks. So when we went through the Control Report Act, but he was called the Third VAT Rate Act at the time, remember what the emphasis was on in the debate and in the media output, so today you're telling us, well, you should have blocked that. What now that it's already approved? When we block the EET, you say, "Don't block, let it pass and approve." Then you have to choose. But obviously it doesn't matter what we do, and that's what the government is to criticize the opposition and vice versa. But you've been blocking our bills for months, for more than a year, and that's not obstruction, because you think you have the right to do so. We've been blocking the EET on two Fridays. It's already obstruction. And you're even saying publicly that you're about to break the law. Not by intuitive mistake, which is kind of a neoplasm in Czech, which is kind of what I'd like to know, which is why we laughed, not that someone would mistake for an apology, but the connection to an intuitive mistake. So when you break the law, the Rules of Procedure, it won't be an intuitive mistake, but a planned action, especially the ANO 2011 movement. And I'm really... Basically, it's good for us to say in advance: we're about to break the law. Well, I don't know if that's right and if that's how Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic should act. Now, let me respond in a matter of fact to the Minister of Finance's speech. A summary report. The summary report, as he said, was approved in December 2009, was valid from 1 January 2010. No offense. Who ruled at the time? Can you remember? Was it the ODS government? Well, it wasn't. Prime Minister Fischer's office was in charge here. So at least we could put this in some kind of time frame and tell who was in charge at the time. This was the time after the early elections were canceled before the proper House elections. And I personally wasn't here, so I won't be responsible for the House's vote at the time of the administration. Now, about the repeated lie. And I'm willing to say it: lie. It's a lie that we don't want to collect taxes and that we don't want to fight tax evasion. Lie like a tower. But we're different in some tools and in the case of how strong those tools are supposed to be. The Minister of Finance says that the inspection report is an instrument for large fish. And I agree with that. I agree. But you also catch Czech whites at the same time. And that's what we say is wrong. I even prepared it in Latin - it's rutilus rutilus. So instead of just catching big fish, you're loading up those little czech fish. And that's what we blame you for. That is why I said: let's talk about limits, for example, and who has a lower turnover, will not have this administrative difficulty. So it's not true that we refuse a priori. That's why I said sectoral. And let's talk about what else makes sense for those hundred million-dollar crooks that we want to catch as much as you do, and what you're actually burdening those who have a turnover, and I said that in my first performance today, one, two, five, ten million a year, that means VAT of which is a maximum of 21 percent. [[11.20 hours]] Or if only those who are entitled to a deduction and who do not pay VAT. The Minister of Finance rightly said that where the right to deduct arises, there are carousels. There's no question about that again. So don't make it a hundred or zero, black or white, and don't say we don't want to fight tax evasion, and don't say we don't want to collect taxes. And those numbers are interesting. Every further discussion, the numbers are increasing - 30 billion. control reports and EET. Take a look at the draft state budget, now approved state budget for 2016, check the tax revenue item, check the VAT revenue item. You have a plus 10 billion. From the inspection report the minister spoke of today? You don't! So where's the 30 billion?? If it's the crooks who make carousels, the government will have our approval. But we ask why you have to bother hundreds of thousands of small businessmen who, as the Czech minister says, are overwhelming - most of the entrepreneurs are not going to go and fulfill their tax obligations. And we're defending them here! Not the cheaters. So listen to what we're saying, and don't say we're rejecting it a priori. We criticized the liquidation amount of the fines. Yesterday and today, we hear from the representatives of the YES movement that it is true, we will change it. So we're right again. And if we postpone it by a year, then we have time to change it, because those who will be fined next month or in February, March, April will not be enough for them to change legislation sometime in the middle of next year. And to me, it's more like sabotage or smiling... We have informed businessmen of the change in the control report, which we consider to be a major, more important project. About EET, the Minister said last Friday it was a revolutionary project. When I hear the word revolution, I'm afraid. He said dneska that the control report is bigger and more important than the revolutionary EET project. And as proof that businessmen were informed, he says we sent them a text message. I would quite like to see how much specific and factual information you sent to businessmen. If it was, for example, what does a normal businessman do on May 13, 2015 when he goes to work? From the perspective of government politicians, it has nothing to do, so it browses the Internet: I will see if there is a new report on the tax administration portal. It is! Excellent! On 13 May 2015, we hung a message on the web portal and thus informed the business public. That's the view of those big companies who have strong economic departments, strong legal departments, but where is the view of those who are much more? The small ones, but also the middle ones, the ones who will never go to another country for tax relief. And repeatedly in both laws, both in the inspection report and in the electronic sales log, we hear words about the settlement of the business environment. I'm in, we're in, so let's start where the distortion is obvious. We have hundreds of national grant titles, tens of billions of them every year, if not hundreds of billions. We have dozens and hundreds of tax relief cases of selected entities, and annually they are billions. This is a distortion of the business environment, it is an inequality of the business environment. So let's cancel the subsidies, and it's not going to be that big of a deficit. But that might be an unwanted spell, as the Minister said, against those who depend on the expenditure of the state budget. Logically!
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u23	Thank you to President Stanjur. The President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors of František Laudát are the last people to sign up for priority rights so far. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u24	Thank you. Vice-President, just a few comments. I don't want to hold up any longer. First of all, it really touches me when it's operated here on the term when it ruled so-called. Fischerův's government. I am very proud that I was one of the few in the then House who did not support this government. You know, it's always enough to look into the past of protagonists, major or side protagonists, like the past, what kind of people it is, how they treat their loved ones, and the reflection in politics is just like a copycat. So that's one. Two. When Mr. Vice Prime Minister here said he didn't understand what it was all about, and it sounded from both Kalousek's mouth and mine, a check-in report with a single recovery point, Jim. That's all I'm saying. We offer and offer a single collection point. This is not just about entrepreneurs, it is about natural persons, of course, every single taxpayer. Instead, you offer electronic cash registers, you offer control reports, you offer databases, citizen registers, criminal records. Just as Ex-Comrade Bucharin said: Socialism is mainly about registration. And I don't know if you realize that you're building up, you're pushing society back into socialism. Indeed, I am very skeptical of you to choose. The problem is, checking the Treasury's fair data today is probably gonna be a problem. So maybe some successors will do that, that they will actually objectively assess how these measures will work. So far, the Ministry of Finance, as well as other sources, which are in the spirit of the ministers for YES, does not work at all, runs with inertia. And I think 2016, I'd say, in some resorts, it's going to be a year of big league. It is already on them, whether it be the drawing of European funds, let it be some things from the Department of Transport and especially the environment. There's gonna be a lot of cost to us in the Minister Brabec's baboon policy if there isn't a miracle in Brussels. So I just wanted to put these things against me like this. And I call on all the citizens and all the entrepreneurs, whenever you go to social services, whenever you go to health insurance, to social services, whenever you go to the tax office, always remember who sends you there more and more in this way. Now you're going to multiply your travels and go deeper into your pocket to pair up invoices, maybe even for electronic sales records. That's your policy. You have declared a certain group of inhabitants, like the communists just after February 1948, but partly before that, war. You want to control them, you want to make them employees of your holdings, your companies. That's your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2015-12-22-ps2013-038-01-000-000.u25	I thank President Laudát. This has so far been the last registered with priority rights and we will now vote on the whole proposal for the 38th session of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's an application for check-out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. The number of people present has settled, and we will therefore vote on the proposal for the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented to you in writing. Initiating vote on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 2, 145 Members and Members registered, for 54, against 82. The motion was not accepted. The agenda of the meeting was therefore not approved. Thank you, then, for attending the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I wish you a peaceful and joyful Christmas and I will look forward to the New Year.
